ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u1	I have the pleasure of being your chairman this afternoon. I would like to welcome Members in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and all those who follow the debate through other channels. In particular, I would also like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and his official support. Last week we had the first term of office. We will continue the debate with the Minister's reply in the first term. I am happy to give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is nice that we can continue and complete the treatment so quickly. We discussed and reviewed the amendments last time. I will not go into that again in the first term. I have just heard that Mrs Berndsen has to leave a little earlier, so I will explain her questions within the various themes and provide an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u3	I have a point of order. I have tabled two amendments. One was about the administrative measure. I have now amended that amendment, from three years to two years. The amendment has now been co-signed by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Segers. The other amendment concerned the ten-year ban on stadiums which could be imposed by the courts. This has been amended in such a way that it has been co-signed by Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u4	Maybe that can be taken into account in the trade-offs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u5	I can say what I said last time about Mr Oskam's amendment, which has now been co-signed by Mrs Helder. The ten-year period is unchanged. At that time, I indicated the arguments for this. I do not recommend the adoption of the amendment. That does not apply to Mr Oskam's amendment to item No. 16, which has now been co-signed by Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Segers. I have made it clear that if it were to be a period of 24 months, I would look at this generously. I've had time to think about it. I think it is right that I should leave the opinion on the amendment to the House. I shall now turn to the answers to the questions. Mrs Berndsen asked when she would receive the official evaluation of the football law. That must be a misunderstanding, because that evaluation took place in spring 2012. At that time, the law was evaluated early, partly in response to a number of serious incidents surrounding paid football. The results of the evaluation were sent to the House of Representatives on 4 September 2012. That was the official evaluation. This has been the basis of the current proposal. If this law takes the Official Journal, which I assume, then the usual evaluation period of five years after entry into force will apply. I say this in reply to Mrs Berndsen's question. I now come to the issue of the link between civil law, administrative law and criminal law in relation to the approach. A number of questions have been asked by Members. As such, I do not come across so many of Mrs Berndsen's questions, but I do come back in detail to questions from other Members about the relationship between administrative law and criminal law. How is the relationship between administrative law and criminal law guaranteed? In both jurisdictions there are possibilities to respond to abuses. It will depend on the circumstances where best action can be taken. Sometimes a mix is the best. It should be ensured that no unnecessary accumulation of measures takes place, but it is highly conceivable that, in addition to an administrative environmental ban on a stadium, a criminal sanction is imposed if the behaviour was punishable. Mrs Berndsen also spoke about first-offenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u6	I asked how the Minister justifies the imposition of heavy measures by a mayor without the intervention of the judge. This also has to do with the accumulation of administrative sanctions that may be imposed by the mayor, which almost puts him on the judge's seat. How does the Minister assess and justify such measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u7	I will come back to this in more detail, but I would like to say that the policy is being pursued in the quadrilateral, i.e. civil law with the club and the KNVB and criminal law with the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the mayor. Together they try to take a balanced package of measures. That means that you can take and enforce measures next to each other. I think that's the power of this bill. In that respect, I have great confidence that the authorities are doing well. It is very important for this law that everyone agrees to work with these instruments. That gives me confidence. In reply to Mrs Berndsen's question, among others, whether there is a accumulation of instruments for mayors and if I would like to find out, I can say that I have been working on this in connection with the debate in the First Chamber on the draft law for preventive search. The question has also been asked, and I have promised the Senate that it will investigate it. We will involve the UNG, as well as scientists and the Society of Mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u8	When's that investigation due?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u9	Of course, you have to do it right. It is a very fair question and I will be happy to inform the Chamber. With a number of parties we are in the process of formulating clear research questions and examining with the WODC who guides it, who does the research and what the schedule is for the research. It has to be done properly and not rushed. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about the schedule. Mrs Berndsen has asked whether I can confirm that first-offers are only dealt with in serious cases. That is the case, because that is a clear condition in the bill. Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Berndsen also asked how this was determined. It's up to the mayor to impose a measure. The gravity of the measure depends on all circumstances of the case. It is now explicitly permitted by law to impose a substantial measure on a first offender who is seriously misbehaved. If a mayor uses this power in a reasoned and proportionate manner, it cannot be expected that the measure will not last in court. I now come to the point of criminal law. A number of Members of Parliament have asked questions about this. Mrs Berndsen asked why the extension of the freedom-limiting measure is necessary. This is desirable for the following three reasons. 1. It must be possible to deal with notorious repeaters in a targeted manner. 2. The increase is important in view of the specific circumstances of football nuisance, as there is only a limited number of matches per season that actually affect football hooligans. 3. The extended deadline is important for dealing with persons who have committed serious offences and who must be kept away from the victim for a longer period of time. Mrs Berndsen has also asked how often the criminal court imposes the maximum period of two years. That is how I remember this question. Precise figures are not to be given. In legal proceedings we see several examples in which the current maximum period of two years is already used, both within and outside the framework of football. Quite recently, a stadium ban, including an environmental ban, has been imposed on a Cambuur supporter for public violence for two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u10	I'm making a point of order. Do I understand that Mrs Berndsen's questions will first be answered and then the answers will be given to the rest of the Chamber? I see the Minister shaking no, but then he did skip the questions of the PVV Group at the first offender. There were two of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u11	I thought the minister explained it. Mrs Berndsen has another binding appointment at 5 p.m. At her request, the Minister first answers her questions and then comes back to the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u12	I come back to all the themes and questions. I just said that at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u13	We will take careful care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u14	I think it's a courtesy to Mrs Berndsen to do this. I will continue with her question on the linking of criminal law and the stadium ban. She asks if I am prepared to investigate additional measures in criminal law once the KNVB has imposed a stadium ban of 18 months or more. I don't think it's necessary to investigate this. If a criminal offence has been committed, the prosecutor may prosecute, in addition to the KNVB's civil stadium ban. I consider it undesirable to proceed automatically if a stadium ban of 18 months or more has been imposed by the KNVB, because the conduct for which the stadium ban has been imposed does not always have to be a criminal offence. The district attorney will always have to consider whether prosecution is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u15	There is a whole list of actions that take place within the stadium on the basis of which the KNVB can impose a stadium ban. That could go up to five years. How does this still relate to criminal law? Does the Minister with D66 think that this should be looked at very carefully? Precisely because it turns out that a criminal approach is more effective than a long-term stadium ban. After all, we want to impose a penalty that is effective. Is he willing to take another look at this? I'm considering making a motion on this otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u16	I said what I said. I think that's the right line. I do not think that further research is necessary, because I automatically prosecute after imposing a stadium ban of 18 months or more by the KNVB considers undesirable. Indeed, the behaviour for which the stadium is prohibited does not always have to be a criminal offence. Of course, that's the DA's own assessment. That makes sense. Furthermore, I am confident that the club, the KNVB, the public prosecutor and the mayor, who are working together, will take the right measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u17	It goes without saying that the public prosecutor is not involved in any undesirable behaviour that is not a criminal offence. I, Mrs Berndsen and the KNVB are concerned that there are people among those to whom the KNVB imposes a stadium ban for 18 months who have committed criminal offences. Those crimes should be transferred to the D.A.'s office. In the end, that has to make a decision in these matters. The question is whether the Minister is prepared to enthuse the Public Prosecutor to withdraw such cases into criminal law. That's much more effective than just a civil stadium ban, because if you violate a civil stadium ban, that ban should be extended, while you're pretty screwed if you're breaking a criminal stadium ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u18	Of course, it is good to discuss this with the Public Prosecutor's Office, although it is not necessary as such. We are talking about this law, but it is now about its implementation. It would also be good if we focused on the execution to make it very good. Everyone has their part to play in that. Criminal justice is very important. The D.A. absolutely intends to strike where necessary and effective. This has my full support and attention. I just don't think we should do any separate research on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u19	I agree with what the Minister is saying and know that he will come back to my questions, but I note that the relationship has been lost over the years. In the past year, the KNVB has imposed 262 stadium bans, under civil law, while there have been serious criminal offences. They're not all automatic felonies, but they're part of it. The number of times the prosecution has been prosecuted is really very limited, against that. How's the minister going to concrete what he's saying now? Will there be targets, ambitions or something like that? Can the Minister be more specific?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u20	Yes, I am, but I am far from finished talking about this subject. Mr Van Nispen has raised many questions in the area of criminal law. I am happy to welcome him by saying something about this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u21	If Mr Van Nispen agrees, perhaps it would be better if you involved yourself in your speech later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u22	This is perhaps more pleasant for Mr Van Nispen to listen to. In fact, Mrs Berndsen asked in the footsteps of all Members of Parliament what was the state of play in the digital reporting obligation. So I'm only gonna deal with that in one go. They also asked about the KNVB pilot and my assessment of it. The KNVB has done a pilot with a form of a digital reporting obligation. I very much appreciate that the KNVB has taken this initiative. I'm excited about it, too. The pilot has shown that the technology is working well. That's important. So a promising situation has now been created to implement the digital reporting obligation. At the beginning of March, the Regiegroep Football and Security will discuss this subject further, under the leadership of the mayor of Eindhoven. Therefore, there is expected to be more clarity about numbers. How often could the mayor impose this measure for different types of nuisance and what are the costs? Joint follow-up actions are also agreed in these consultations. The obligation to notify shall prevent any repetition of past conduct or disturbances of public policy. It's not a punitive measure, it's a preventive measure. It should be implemented as efficiently as possible. It is up to the mayor to determine whether the reporting obligation is physically applied, in which one has to report to a particular place, or digitally. I say this to Mr Bontes in particular. Finally, I would like to say to Mrs Berndsen and Mr Van Dekken that the tightening of the law creates the legal basis for the reporting obligation to function in this way. That's important. It is expressly not my intention to prescribe anything with this. Here too, the approach must be tailor-made. Municipalities will soon be able to decide whether or not to work with the digital reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u23	In a broad arm movement other spokesmen were immediately included, but a lot of questions have been asked about the possible fraud sensitivity of the digital reporting obligation. How do we know it was a successful pilot, when will we get results and when will we discuss it further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u24	I thought I said that neatly, without mentioning dates. There has been a pilot that is judged positively in itself. The instrument can work. Mr Segers knows how it works, I think. Maybe he's seen it work. I can recommend that to anyone. I would like to describe what it looks like and how it works, but I note that Mr Segers does not think that this is necessary. The measure has been monitored in particular at RKC, Ajax and NEC. Participation has been voluntary. The technology seems to be working well. At the beginning of March it will be on the table with those exercising the authority, the mayors, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the KNVB. They're gonna see how we proceed with this. I think it is very important for you to be able to use the reporting obligation for all types of nuisance. Follow-up agreements will be reached in the March consultations. I would, of course, like to wait and see, but I would also like to exert my influence on it. I'm positive about it. I'd like to let the Chamber know what we're going to do after the meeting, when we've got it all figured out. If there is any abuse at a later date, you never know, then this can be seen as a breach of the reporting obligation and action is taken against it. Those who impose the reporting obligation, the mayor, must decide how it is to be implemented. The scope for application, like this law, is not limited to football. That's what I'm saying. If there are other techniques that can properly verify the identification of persons, they could also be used. You don't have to, but the law can do it technically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u25	I mentioned the example of a supporter with a stadium ban who, with a camera team in the wake, went into the stadium with a lot of bravure and could just attend a competition. We have to prevent that. In this context, the VNG has said that it might be interesting to look at the electronic anklet. Perhaps that would be an additional means of ensuring that people who are not allowed to enter the stadium are actually stopped. Is that part of the pilot evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u26	There are two ways to ensure that a stadium ban is respected. The first way is to report to the station physically. That's very intensive, for everyone, but it's possible. This can be imposed if one so wishes. The second way is the digital reporting obligation. The anklet is a third way, which we have not yet thought of. Using the anklet is extremely labour-intensive and will cost a lot of strength. Such a bond must be established with someone. In this respect, too, I would like to think and look at what the police have to do and what things we should save the police for. So I am not thinking of using the anklet; let me make that clear. Let us first put these two cards on the table and see if we can effectively regulate the matter, so that those who have a stadium ban do not get into it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u27	I am glad that the Minister is taking a little distance from the anklet, because that is a punitive measure, whereas the legislative proposal is intended as a preventive measure. Then, please, let us just talk about this sanction. The electronic way is fraud, I am assured, because a fingerprint is being used. So that's gotta work out. If the digital reporting obligation is used, this means huge capacity savings for the police. The Minister is responsible for that. Of course, the mayors are imposing the measure, but there will undoubtedly be another financial picture around the corner. I therefore ask the Minister how he will promote this effective instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u28	I just said something about that. We will discuss this together under the leadership of the Football and Security Regiegroep. The mayor of Eindhoven presides over that group. We're in it, too. I'm not saying for nothing that I'm positive about the digital reporting obligation. I believe that the mayors who are going to apply the measure should also assume their responsibilities in this respect. They will certainly take it, and I am convinced of it. I will inform the Chamber of how that is done. I would like to thank Mrs Berndsen for supplementing my defence; indeed, this is a preventive measure and not a punitive one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u29	I make an urgent appeal to the Minister not to have the measure blocked because of the finances. We need to look at the cost of implementing the measure very widely, because the use of the police also costs a great deal of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u30	Absolutely. I am therefore in favour of using the measure because of its flexibility and the effectiveness demonstrated by the pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u31	Digital reporting obligations will be discussed in March. There have been positive experiences. The Minister talks about a good development. I assume that the majority of this Chamber agrees with me. How long will the measure be implemented? Of course, it will not take years, but I assume a deadline will be agreed. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u32	We are now working on the law that makes this possible. Of course, I want the measure put in place as soon as possible. Of course, I am partly dependent on those who ultimately make the decision, but I will raise the deadline in the Football and Security Regiegroep. So the Chamber receives a picture of how we are going to do it, how we are going to use it and when we are going to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u33	Of course, all this is well documented in the letter sent by the Minister to the Chamber. I would stress that the PvdA needs a rapid implementation of the measure. I think this is a good thing for everyone involved in football, including the hooligan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u34	I feel Mr Van Dekken's hot breath in this file constantly on my neck and I am going to go through it more and more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u35	Look, it's healthy, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u36	I'm also glad the pilot went well. I think this is what is needed. If you want to normalize it again for the regular supporters, then maintaining the stadium bans is very important. I'm also glad it's directed, even a directing group. Of course, there's some tension. We're gonna use it for more than just football, I get that, and every mayor has to choose whether he wants to bet it. Then, of course, you run the risk that the costs will become a problem for a small municipality and not for a larger one. That is why I would like to give the Minister for his talks with the management group that I think this is an excellent point for such a gentlemen's agreement as has ever been made between the politics, the clubs and the KNVB that we are not going to charge the police, but that the KNVB and the clubs are doing their bit to relieve the police. In the development of this pilot, which is mainly aimed at football reporting, I think this is a point to give to the Minister already. He must point out to his interlocutors their responsibility to ensure that this is done, especially for the good supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u37	I look directly at my staff, so that it gives me the suggestion of Mr Dijkhoff in the annotation I get for the interview of the director group. I think we should speak very carefully about this. Everyone has to take responsibility. That is what Mr Dijkhoff says. Thank you for that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u38	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u39	Yes, please. I'm joining the international exit ban. I do not see Mrs Berndsen there, so that has her approval.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u40	A concise summary, let's just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u41	It's all on me. Then there is a point from Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Berndsen. What requirements do we impose on the evidence file when a sanction of a private organisation is taken over? I remember them setting it up. Administrative and civil law have no formal requirements to satisfy evidence. However, the mayor will have to make an independent assessment of whether the conduct underlying the decision of a private organisation is sufficiently serious to justify an administrative decision. In order to justify such a decision, the mayor will have to base himself on a sufficiently clear file. It is then a clear description of the facts. Camera footage can certainly be part of that. If, in the opinion of the person concerned, a decision is not sufficiently reasoned or is too heavy, he may appeal against it. I come to Mrs Berndsen's question on the powers of the mayor. I can now say about the investigation of the powers of mayors by the WODC, because it sometimes happens so quickly, that the end of 2015, early 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u42	If I ask now, I won't have to come back to it later. The Minister says that there are no formal requirements for strengthening the civil-law sanction with an administrative sanction. The mayor will always have to be self-confident about the seriousness of the case, on the basis of a file. The question then is what in the bill does that provision, the proposal is entirely at the bottom of the first page of the bill: the mayor can also give an order to a person who has been sanctioned by a private organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u43	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u44	That is fine, but what does that provision add, if it can be done without a civil sanction, because the mayor has become convinced of the seriousness of the fact and of the fact that there is a file?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u45	To confirm once again that the mayor can also take a measure independently on top of a civil law provision, a civil action of the club or the bvo or the KNVB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u46	So the mayor can just as easily impose an administrative measure on his own. The civil penalty is not necessary for this. It stands for clarity and certainty in the law, but does not change the demands we make on the evidence. If I may conclude in this way, that reassures me somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u47	I do believe that we can come to the same conclusion. Mr. Chairman. I have tried to answer all of Mrs Berndsen's questions, which I had prepared in recent days. I shall now proceed with my speech and start from the outset. I now come to the link between the approach in civil law, administrative law and criminal law. We have already said what we need to do about this. Mr Van Nispen has stated that it is precisely the police and the public prosecutor who must act on football-related offences, on top of the civil approach. I have said all that I need to say. I would like to reiterate that, in the event of a criminal offence committed in or outside the stadium, the Public Prosecutor can prosecute. This criminal route may exist alongside the civil approach of the clubs and the KNVB. Both routes will often reinforce each other. That is what we want at the heart of the matter. We do not want one or the other; both paths must strengthen each other. That's why it's very good that you're talking about quadrangles here. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Segers spoke about the smart use of police capacity, so detective rather than ME. Of course, I want to promote the efficient and effective use of the police. That's an open door. I am referring here to the answer and, of course, not to the question; let there be no misunderstanding about that. Our commitment here is to achieve less police deployment around the football matches. In the 2013-2014 season, police deployment decreased by over 10% compared to four seasons back. The police are doing whatever it takes to fight hooliganism. The police have assigned the tasks around the football matches recognizable within the police units. This also contributes to an efficient and effective approach. I like to leave to the professionals how many MEs and how many detectives are deployed; I always have in the past. The approach of the police is taken after consultation with the various partners: the Public Prosecutor, the KNVB, the mayor and the clubs. This combination of agreements with all partners contributes to the fight against hooliganism. Prevention comes first and then repression comes next. On the capacity of police and OM, Mr. Oskam and Mr. Van Nispen...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u48	Mr Oskam has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u49	I'll wait for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u50	A number of answers will follow. Locally, in the triangle, the assessment of the capacity of the police and the OM is made. When I am a minister at football games, I also see how extremely serious this is happening. Such preparation is made days in advance. This is also done on guidance from the State's Attorney's Office on national and regional priorities. A small group of troublemakers is responsible for a large part of the police commitment to football. That group also causes problems outside the competitions. That's what the accent must be on. This requires a personalised approach. This draft law makes that approach possible. Collaboration within the security houses, for example in the form of case transfer, ensures a better and safer situation at football matches. I see Mr Oskam back at the interrupting microphone, Mr President. I'll leave it to you. I'd love to go on, but you're in charge, at least here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u51	Sure. Perhaps it would be useful to await the answer of the whole block in which your name is mentioned, Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u52	Mr Oskam's name appears in this block about six times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u53	Then I think it is right that Mr Oskam should interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u54	Where it can be less, everyone is of course fine with that. It is good that there is consultation, because we have said: football hooliganism can only be tackled with one another. Now, however, the WODC has done research, which I have also told the Minister. That is correct: there is a lack of capacity in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I didn't get a response to that. I want to know from the minister if he recognizes that or if the WODC is wrong again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u55	I don't recognize that. I didn't hear that in any way. However, we need to focus more on a personalised approach. That's why it's good that this law comes and is so prepared. That's the core of the story. It's a small group that needs to be targeted. These are both matters of public order and criminal law, on which investigative capacity must be deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u56	Of course, there's no one to object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u57	No, that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u58	Fine. Of course, no one can oppose that, but if there are not enough policemen to give that personal attention, then it just stops. So we get into a bit of a stalemate and that happens every time. The WODC says it doesn't add up. The Minister says it's true. We'll write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u59	I don't recognize that. I don't recognize that from the reports either. I don't recognize it from practice. It's important. The focus is placed on these issues. I will be responsible for ensuring that this happens permanently. There's no reason to doubt the Public Prosecutor's focus on this file. We are now waiting for the possibility offered by the draft law to take additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u60	I was just a little early, and now I'm almost late again, because I have a question about the Minister's previous answer. He did speak in very general terms about strengthening civil law and criminal law. Of course they can strengthen each other. The fact that the KNVB and the clubs want to impose a stadium ban does not mean that the D.A. and the criminal court cannot also take action. But my specific question was: doesn't the Minister also think that the relationship has been slightly lost, given the 662 civil stadium bans last year and the very small number of criminal actions against football-related violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u61	The first responsibility lies with the BVO, with the KNVB. He's the manager of the stadium. That's where it happens. He's the host. In addition, we always guide each other to questions such as: what is the policy regarding a particular competition, situation or case? In addition, criminal law, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the administration, the mayor, are important. That's where the cops are. He prepares those things. I have a great deal of faith in that. That's what this bill is for. But let us begin by laying down the responsibility of where it belongs: at the paid football, where the games take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u62	Of course there is that responsibility. That seems to me to be the case, but if there is a lot of civil law going on and the clubs and the KNVB are taking on that responsibility very quickly, then the police, the prosecutor and the use of criminal law cannot be reduced. That's exactly what you need in case of more serious crimes. I also asked the Minister in my first term for a response to the example that sometimes the prosecutor takes a step back or that the criminal court takes into account, for example, already imposed civil stadium bans. I understand that, but I want a response from the Minister, because we should not have a situation where criminal law is not used, because the club and the KNVB have already acted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u63	I repeat what I have just said. That is not the case as such. Each situation is of course judged by itself in the team, the quadrilateral, with different responsibilities. I think that is extremely important, essential. We've never gotten so far that all the parties say, "That's how we want to do it." But I can't handle every case here. I'm not going to. But everyone has their responsibilities there. The Public Prosecutor will also take it. I am the last to say that this should not be done, but in any situation, of course, there will have to be a balance between all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u64	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u65	Mr Oskam and Mr Van Nispen asked about cooperation between the partners. I, of course, regularly speak with the mayors of the cities with bvo's, the KNVB, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. We regularly stress the need for cooperation, including in implementation. Nationally, we work very well together in the Football and Security Regiegroep, also with the Football and Security Audit Team. The Regiegroep Football and Security is developing policies to reduce the number of incidents and create conditions for football to be a party. That's the core I stand for. I'd love to see that made clear under my rule. These parties shall monitor developments and, if necessary, address their own supporters. Current problems will support the local approach with knowledge and experience. Locally, the triangle, supplemented by the football club, is the most important partnership. Mr Oskam would like to see a tighter management of transport flows. He asked me to take that up with the Minister of I and M. The Central Information Point Football vandalism receives information from foreign colleagues about the number of supporters and how they may travel. The Central Information Point Football Vandalism monitors these supporters movements. When it knows what the transport flows are, this is discussed with the partners concerned, including, for example, the NS. A tighter direction is not necessary at the moment, I think. But we will also make this point very clear in the directing group, because from time to time, of course, that is always an item. I agree with Mr Oskam. Mr Oskam also asked how the police deal with file-forming. Then it's about the identification of young growth at the hard core. It's recognizable. The police work according to the method of "Hooligans in Beeld." The core of this is that leading hooligans, or notorious troublemakers around football, are extracted from anonymity on the basis of information and targeted action. That's essential. As a result, the group reduces the distortions of public policy. So that's the personal approach again. Each unit ensures that the main wheeldrivers are known and follows the young rise. There are several projects in the country aimed at preventing the growth of young people to the hard core. It is very important to achieve this in the implementation process. Mr Bontes and Mr Oskam asked whether there were any partnerships between football clubs and motor clubs. Police analyses show that there is generally no strong connection between motorcycle clubs, the Outlaw Motorcycle Gangs (OMGs) and supporters and the football clubs. Only in incidental cases is a higher degree of involvement between OMGs and the hard core of football seen. Apart from a single crime of violence and a suspicion of drug trafficking, as far as is now known, no further criminal involvement between motorcycle clubs and pay-per-view football clubs has been identified. A possible influence of motor clubs on paid football clubs is of course closely monitored by the police and incidents are investigated and addressed. The Permanent Committee for Security and Justice asked me for a response to the report in the Algemeen Dagblad two weeks ago, I thought biker gangs were infiltrating football supporters. We've got that under investigation. I will send a letter to your Chamber at the beginning of February. Mr Dijkhoff raised an important point. Is an integrated approach possible, aimed at the person of the hooligan, which also looks at the facts outside of football? The answer is yes. An integrated approach is certainly possible. The Hooligans programme in Beeld takes the leaders, the directors, out of anonymity. This approach runs from prevention to repression, depending on the characteristics and background of the person. In doing so, it is important to develop a tailor-made approach at local level with the various partners. Really moving forward requires courage, priority, capacity and knowledge of the partners. More investment can be made in this area, I say with emphasis. I hope everyone's listening. In the coming years, the unsub-focused approach will be a focus in reducing insecurity and nuisance around football. We have also been asked what criteria the mayors apply to their actions. How can we avoid double standards? The law contains a number of criteria that must be met if a measure is to be imposed. The mayor is responsible for maintaining public order in his own municipality and makes the assessment of whether a particular fact is serious and whether a particular measure can be applied. The note on the report states that the qualification of conduct depends partly on the time and place. Mr. Oskam asked for that. Of course, this does not mean that abuses around football matches are tolerated. Let's get that straight. I have every confidence that our mayors are responsiblely tailor-made and want to give them every opportunity to do so. This is also the case with the Van Dekken amendment (33882), No. 11) in the reply in the first period. So there will be no criteria for mayors. That won't be necessary. Then I'll join the first offenders. I think I just answered that point. At least that was my intention. It worked. Mrs Helder and Mr Oskam asked if I wanted to delete the "serious" criterion, so that first offenders could also receive a measure directly in light facts. My answer to that is no. I don't think that's necessary. In order to directly impose a heavy measure on a first offender in the event of a light event, it is not proportionate. In light of the proportionality, it is reasonable for the mayor to impose a measure on the basis of the APV for minor facts at first offenders. It is up to the mayor to impose the measure, and I leave that to them in the triangle too. The gravity of the measure depends on all the circumstances of the situation. Mr Van Nispen said in criminal law that many behaviours related to football vandalism have already been criminalised. Let me give you the following examples. Destroyed and openly assaulted. Speaking choirs can be a criminal offence when it comes to a criminal offense. Evilness in the football stadium or outside can be punishable as street-breaking. The entry of unauthorized persons has also been punishable. Criminally restraining behaviour, including within a stadium, can also be addressed through criminal law. There must be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u66	Does the Minister repeat exactly what I said about this in my first term? Because, of course, I know that throwing fireworks on the field can cause legal destruction. But my question on this was precisely what I think the Minister knows as well as the following. If you throw fireworks on the field, it's legal destruction. But you are disrupting a football party for thousands of people, of which a lot of people are then affected, because in future there will be searching, because there will again be mandatory bus combi's etc. Throwing fireworks on the field is, as I said, legally destruction, but wouldn't it be grounds for higher penalties than destroying something on the street, because it doesn't hurt thousands of people? That was my general question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u67	Now we're gonna go into this case. I think each situation is separate for assessment. I am not going to do it to the triangle to say now: in this case it is this and in that case it is that, or a combination of that. In this situation, too, a combination of civil law, administrative law and criminal law can arise. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u68	That is, of course, very general. Legally, we all know what's going on. I had only hoped that the Minister would stress that the seriousness of such events, committed in stadiums or during events that disrupt a party for thousands, is great. Perhaps the Minister could have given examples of this. That's not going to get you into this case, it's going to see how things are going in practice. I had hoped the Minister would say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u69	I have mentioned a number of examples. Criminal law must also be used. There's no misunderstanding about that. Mr Van Nispen constantly asks the same question, namely whether I want to use criminal law. Not only do I want that, but the DA wants that, and so do the mayors. Furthermore, the football clubs want that too. It is about weighing up what measures you take and what measures are effective in what situation, for the purpose of turning football into a party and tackling and putting in place that small group of notorious hooligans. That's my mission, that's what I stand for, with hopefully many others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u70	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u71	Mr Segers asked for more criminal law. The starting point must be that monitoring the orderly conduct of football matches, preventing disorder and preventing soccer hooligans is primarily a task. Let's hold on to that for the football clubs themselves and the KNVB. That's where it starts; they have to take responsibility. That's what they want and that's what they do. Criminal law has a role to play if the nuisance and disorder associated with the commission of criminal offences. Of course. At that time, the criminal instruments must be fully deployed, and that is what is happening. To this end, the legislative proposal also contains some reinforcements. It is a balanced and balanced application of the various instruments, depending on the specific facts and circumstances of the case. That requires good coordination between professionals. I have faith in that, like I said. Mr Bontes asked why, in addition to a stadium ban, no additional fines of the third category are imposed. If an nuisance bomber is prosecuted for the offences he has committed, the judge may impose a stadium ban on him. In addition, the judge may impose a penalty, e.g. a fine. The amount of that fine depends on the offence for which the nuisance bomber is convicted. The issue of the digital reporting obligation we have, I think, completely discussed. Mr Van Nispen asked about the international exit ban...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u72	I'd like to comment on the digital reporting obligation. The KNVB has sent an evaluation to the Ministry. The KNVB is excited about it. The Ministry has said: we also judge it as good. My question is what we are going to do with it now. What's the follow-up? Are we going to roll it out into a full-fledged system that we're going to use in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u73	I have answered this in detail, but I think it is so important that I should like to say it three or four times. I'm in favour of it. We have a meeting of the management group headed by Mr Van Gijzel in March. We're in there. Everything will be dealt with and we will make further arrangements there. I'll let the Chamber know who's doing what, what we're doing, how we're doing it and when we're doing it. As far as I'm concerned, we're really trying to go through with this right now. I would like to point out that we are now going for two reporting obligations: physical and electronic, i.e. digital. Now let's all make something out of it. I am delighted to be able to say this all the time, because I am very excited about it. You can see that. I come to the exit ban, international and national. Mayors are responsible for and concern only public order in their congregation. For some mayors, that's very difficult. We have given the law the opportunity to do something about it. A mayor cannot maintain public order in another municipality. For outings within the Netherlands, the bill therefore allows a mayor to impose a measure on behalf of another mayor. That is a very special possibility, but effective. The measure applies to the persons concerned in both municipalities. For outings outside the Netherlands, the KNVB may impose national stadium bans applicable to all football matches at home and abroad in which a Dutch paid football organisation participates. The troublemaker is not allowed to enter the stadium at a foreign competition. The criminal court may impose a reporting obligation and a location bid for all games of a paid football club at home and abroad. This makes it virtually impossible for these people to travel. Finally, there is an international exchange of information between the National Football Information Points about supporters who travel along to outings. Any hooligans travelling with them can be alerted in good time so that they are denied access to the stadium. Mr Dijkhoff and Mr Van Nispen asked about this how it works now and how cooperation is going. A mayor can impose an area ban on anyone who disturbs public order in his municipality, including a non-resident of the Netherlands. Between the various National Football Information Points, information exchange takes place about supporters who travel along to outings. Any hooligans who are not allowed to enter the stadium and who the mayor does not wish to have in certain places in the municipality can be detected and stopped on the basis of this information as soon as they enter the municipality. This exchange of information between the different police organisations of the European countries is progressing well in itself. However, I know from experience that you should not underestimate this and that you should remain on top of it. That's why I'm saying the same thing. Then there are a number of other questions. I shall begin with Mrs Helder's questions on the enforcement of stadium bans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u74	I would like to make sure that I understand this point. My concern was not so much to ban competitions within the Netherlands as to ban competitions in Europe. Do I understand correctly that, let us say, the mayor of Eindhoven himself can impose an area ban if PSV has to play football in Bucharest and therefore does not have to wait for a request from the mayor of that other country? So I am referring to a person who already has an area ban on the basis of a file. Does the reporting obligation attached to it therefore apply to that outing within Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u75	It's a little more complicated than that. That's what I said. The criminal can do that. In the Netherlands, the mayor can also do it together with another mayor. The KNVB can do it for anyone. So he can say that the gentleman doesn't come to games of that club, in any stadium. The criminal court can also state this as such. So we have tools to do that. We have a whole international network of National Football Information Points. That works well in itself, but it's just sharp sailing, especially when it's international. Mr Van Nispen also knows from experience that it is important that the police forces of the two cities, regions or countries exchange information with each other. Whatever you decide with each other must also be carried out and enforced. I was with Mrs Helder's questions. What about the penalty for ignoring a stadium ban and reporting obligation? If someone with a stadium ban is caught in the stadium, the club or the KNVB will report this to the police. Supporters who are still in or around a stadium in violation of an imposed civil stadium ban risk a prison sentence of up to six months, a second stadium ban and a fine. Breach of a measure imposed by the mayor or public prosecutor results in a criminal offence for which prison sentences may be imposed. Breach of a court-ordered stadium ban leads to enforcement of the conditional part of the sentence or replacement detention. Then I come to Mr Van Nispen's questions about obstacles to support measures. Of course, I share the ambition of the Football and Security policy. That football should be a party again is the priority here. The good should suffer as little as possible from a small group of rioters. That has been said repeatedly, but it cannot be said enough. Many local quadrilaterals are working towards standardisation and are highly committed. This means that we are working on good hosting, improving the relationship with the supporters and firmly addressing notorious troublemakers. It is important to adopt a tailor-made approach at local level. However, I can see that the approach still needs an extra boost. At the moment, the national partners are in the process of shaping this. I have already answered Mrs Berndsen and Mr Van Nispen's question together. Mr Segers said: not too many new measures too quickly. I interpret his remark in such a way that Mr Segers believes that we should not introduce unlimited new measures. I fully share that view, but there was reason for adjustments and not to wait a few years. The evaluation has also shown that this was the cause, so we are working on it today. I do not want to go further now with new measures, as my reaction shows. We must first give time to the new rules by firmly implementing them and making the most of what is possible and possible, and not go further than this bill now. I come to Mr Segers' question on how we are guarding the care of the mayors' actions. I have already said a few things about it, which I will repeat. The mayor is obliged to carefully and adequately motivate his decision, as included in the General Administrative Law Act. In doing so, he makes a careful balance of interests. Mayors are also aware that their decision must pass the judicial test. I therefore have no reason to doubt that the mayors will make their decisions carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u76	In response to a question from Mrs Berndsen, I think I recall that the Minister said that he would look specifically at the role of the mayor in the evaluation and that he would deal with the VNG. Is there anything else he can say about that? Is there any specific assessment of the proper use of the mayor's orders? Isn't too much being put on the mayor's plate, which he can't quite live up to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u77	As such, I don't think so. Certainly not in this law. The mayor is the central figure here, together with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the football club. In dealing with the law on preventive search in the First Chamber, where the same question was raised, I promised that I would be willing to put the matter together with the mayors as well, and I am doing so now. The WODC shall conduct independent investigations for this purpose. This involves the VNG, the Dutch Society of Mayors and a few competent professors who have all the knowledge of this. At the end of 2015, early 2016 that report will be on the table. Then, of course, I'll send it. Mr. Chairman. I had just arrived at Mr Bontes' question as to why a stadium ban does not automatically lead to an area ban. The mayor will have to make a stand-alone assessment of whether conduct which is a reason for the KNVB or a football club to impose a stadium ban is sufficient basis for a decision by the mayor. It is always a matter of taking a decision of its own. Mr Dijkhoff asked if I could agree that the law as such also provides instruments for returning Syrians. The law provides tools to prevent and combat disorder. If jihadists distort public order, these powers can, of course, be used against them, and then so will they. However, there will not always be any distortion of public order in this group. In order to resist the threat posed by a particular person to national security, a temporary law on administrative measures is being prepared. As indicated in the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme, this could include a periodic reporting obligation and a ban on contact. Mr Oskam asked about the Pro Supporter Programme and the reduction of alcohol consumption in the Jupiler League. The Pro Supporter program was created by Jupiler as sponsor of the first division, which is why we speak of the Jupiter League, to contribute to responsible alcohol consumption among supporters of teams in the Jupiler League. Enlargement to the Honor Division has been discussed. However, the clubs and the KNVB have not chosen to do so and it is up to them to decide. The coverage of cameras in and around the stadiums is a licensing condition that the KNVB imposes on the clubs. The installation must meet a number of criteria. The quality of the cameras varies per paid football organization. The D.A. and the police can use the footage if they want. In this context, Mrs Helder asked for the implementation of Mr Oskam's motion on the effective use of camera images in the search. As you know, a bill is being drafted. This is expected to enter the consultation within a few weeks. Mr Oskam spoke of a European database. The NFIP website was created by means of a European grant. That grant stopped. The NFIP website is outdated and needs to be replaced. Through all European information points, including the Central Information Point Football vandalism in the Netherlands, a solution is sought together at an international level. Financing from all member countries has not proved feasible. At the moment there are conversations with Interpol to place the website there, so I have been reported. Mr Oskam also asked about the spotters. Of course, I am prepared to draw attention to this in a European context. I think it is important that the Dutch police are supported by foreign colleagues at European competitions in the Netherlands. Part of the costs incurred by these foreign colleagues are borne by the police in the Netherlands. Dutch colleagues also go to competitions abroad in support of their colleagues there. The police are already using spotters during games in Dutch paid football; that is what I am saying in response to Mr Bontes' question. Mr Van Dekken has asked how I can ensure that innocent football supporters are removed from the Football Tracking System. Football Follow System is subject to strict privacy regulations. In my opinion, there is no need to worry that supporters are wrongly registered in the system. Mr Van Dekken also asked me what I think about the idea that pay-per-view football organisations should develop an action plan every two years that includes measures to improve hospitality for supporters. Hospitality for supporters is very important to me, like many others. I welcome all the good ideas in this area. Hospitality is also one of the spearheads of the Football and Security Policy Framework. Hospitality and service aim to facilitate supporters, remove or prevent annoyances and ensure a pleasant competition experience. The Football and Security Audit Team involves the hospitality aspect in the audits it does with the paid football organisations and the partners involved. At present, the national partners are also in the process of drawing up an implementation plan for the coming years. Mr Dijkhoff has asked whether a combi arrangement is seen by a mayor as a'security'? I think I'm literally quoting him now. One of the ambitions of the Football and Security Policy Framework is to reduce the number of combi arrangements, precisely in order to turn football into a party again by limiting as many generic measures as possible. For each competition, the risk profile of the contest is assessed locally and whether a combination scheme, in any form whatsoever, is necessary for cars, buses or trains. The mandatory combi is an important measure to allow visiting supporters to flow in and out of the stadium manageably and planned and will therefore continue to be used if there is reason to do so. Mr Segers asks how I will ensure that the preventive approach does not lag behind the repressive approach. The security partners strive and are very committed to making football a party again. In the vision of the Football and Security Audit Team, which I like to join, normalising means that the security partners should link preventive and repressive security policies to a more service-oriented supporter policy. This requires building trust between the security partners, the supporters and the associations, as well as relationship management, consultation with supporters and honoring reasonable supporters' wishes that should be combined with strict action in the event of breach of agreements made. It is important to adopt a tailor-made approach at local level. Preventive and repressive measures must be taken into account. However, I can see that the approach still needs an extra boost. At the moment, the national partners are working on further shaping this. I leave it to experts to decide whether addiction treatment or approach to aggression is standard, as Mr Van Nispen asked. The underlying problems of alcohol and drugs, education and employment, mentioned by Mrs Berndsen, certainly require attention. Local case transfers, for example in a Security House, and local customization can contribute to a personalised approach with attention to both care and safety. Mr Segers asked how we know that not even people with stadium bans enter the stadium. The enforcement of the stadium bans is primarily a matter for the clubs, the bvo's. They take many measures. The reporting obligation can be an important instrument in enforcing stadium bans. We have discussed this in detail. If a person with a civil-law stadium ban is still found in the stadium despite all measures, the bvo or the KNVB will report. The police football unit also controls the possible presence of stadium banners around and in stadiums. Despite all these measures, it may still happen occasionally that someone with a stadium ban is in the stadium. That is not the intention of all parties, of course, but if the ban leads to the person concerned acting inconspicuously, you have had bad luck at that time. Next time, you'll have to make sure you catch him. Let's just leave it at that. Those are my first-term answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u78	On that last point, I would like a little more clarity. Is it true that the Minister ultimately wants to move towards a digital reporting obligation and that he wants to get rid of the physical reporting obligation? If that is not the case: if there is a huge gap in time between the physical obligation to report to an agency and the competition, which takes place much later, why should an electronic anklet not be helpful? Again, that's a suggestion from the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u79	I would like to say once again that I think we should now focus on the two reporting obligations. It has taken us years and we have always operated on the physical reporting obligation. It stands; it is a choice that one makes. This can be assessed on a case-by-case basis. In addition, we have a new instrument in development, which all partners are actually enthusiastic about, namely the digital reporting obligation. Let us set our sights on this and not bring another third into the ring, which is very labour-intensive. Let us now focus on the two reporting obligations. Then we will make it clear to each other that we want this instrument to be a success. I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u80	For the sake of clarity, the VNG does not say that there will be a third notification obligation or a third variant. The anklet is complementary to the first. If the Minister does not want to get rid of the physical reporting obligation, because it remains necessary, the VNG says: would it not be useful for enforcement to work with an electronic anklet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u81	I haven't heard from a mayor who's excited about this. However, I am prepared to explain to the UNG why we should not do this now. I just don't think it's an effective instrument. It takes way too much time and is too complicated. You get distracted again by bringing in a new instrument, while you now have to invest in the digital reporting obligation and in what you already have, namely the physical reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u82	A very brief interruption by Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u83	Thank you, Mr President, for this generosity. The Minister is willing to explain it, but is he also willing to listen to the UNG so that she can first of all say why it could be complementary and help?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u84	In this context, I do not need to listen to the VNG, but rather to the mayors in the management consultation led by Mr Van Gijzel. They know how to do it, and they have to do it. Of course I listen a lot and then I give my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u85	I have a question about the Football Tracking System. If I would be a cheerful somewhat fanatical supporter of FC Groningen or Feyenoord and end up in a situation that I have nothing to do with, but which makes me noted as a hooligan and get into the Football Follow System, how do I get out if I have demonstrably done nothing? I ask this question on behalf of a number of supporters who have approached me. They're all in it wrongly. Their privacy has been violated and, more importantly, it can cost them their social career. Is it true that they need to be removed from the football tracking system immediately or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u86	There's a strict privacy regulations, and I'm assuming it's well respected. I haven't heard any complaints about it either, but I can also raise that point in the management consultation. It is a matter of implementation and we must ensure that no one gets unearned into the system. If that happens, he's gonna have to get out right away. That sounds simple to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u87	I see this as a commitment to look very critically at the question of whether that system really works as we all think and believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u88	That's always good, especially at this point. You certainly shouldn't end up in such a tracking system if you just go to your favorite club every two weeks. Mr President, I have finished my first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u89	Thank you for your answer. Is there a need for a suspension at the moment? If not, we will continue and try to complete the treatment for dinner break. I call Mrs Helder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u90	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. I would like to make a few comments on a few points, first of all on criminal group liability. The Minister said that this is a point where we meet regularly and touch each other, but with which we have not yet made any progress. He said a little later that I would like to further reduce the burden of proof in the sense that a whole group can be held liable for the criminal consequences of public violence. Such a far-reaching extension of criminal liability which tends to be a risk liability goes beyond the scope of this bill, the Minister says. The Minister heard that very well. I still have hope, because he said he hadn't made it. So it is work in progress and I am happy to continue with our initiative proposal. This is not a rejection of the substance, so we are going to talk about it. With regard to the condition of serious disturbance of public order in the case of a first offender, I have looked at the text in the explanatory memorandum. It states that, as a result of the evaluation, researchers also point out that mayors, especially in the case of football-related nuisances, find it problematic that the powers under Article 172a of the Municipal Act cannot be used against first offenders. That is something to be expected of this bill, but on the condition that there must be serious nuisance. In the first place, I asked who decides what is serious. It's become clear by now that that's the mayor. Why don't we give the mayor all the space? Let us simply delete the word'serious'. The Minister said that this is not necessary, because a heavy measure is not proportionate in the case of a first offender. However, I did not ask for a heavy measure. It's about measures and not about penalties. So you could say that proportionality doesn't play. The PVV is about the space that mayors should have as a whole. The mayors are wise enough to deal with that authority. I shall table the next motion on behalf of my group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, on the basis of the legislative proposal 33882, the mayor may impose a ban, a ban or a notification obligation on a so-called first offender, but that it must be a serious disturbance of public policy;]] [[considers that the Mayor should be able to impose an area ban, a group ban and/or a reporting obligation even in the event of minor disturbances of public policy;]] [[calls on the Government to delete the word "serious" from the proposed Article 172a Municipal Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33882-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u91	I would like to make a comment on the maximum duration of the freedom-limiting measure. When a person is banned for the second time, as far as we are concerned, the judge should be able to impose this measure for a maximum period of 10 years. The PVV has put this forward together with the CDA and the PvdA in the now much discussed initiative paper. Therefore, on behalf of my group, I have co-signed Mr Oskam's amendment. In the explanatory memorandum, I would like to refer to the fact that, after the evaluation, the researchers conclude that the current deadlines of the measures are too short to be effective, particularly when it comes to soccer nuisances. This amendment is urgently needed. I should like to make a comment on the position of my colleague in the Labour Party. In the first period, there have also been interruptions. Diplomaticly speaking, the position of the PvdA group is extremely disappointing and in plain Dutch this is simply called "removing your bullshit." The reason for the initiative paper was that in the current football law I quote the initiators, including Mr Van Dekken on behalf of the PvdA "... white spots, but among other things. police organisations, supporters' associations and the KNVB have also indicated that these incidents are more than enough,..." The number of incidents involving football violence has only increased since then. Nevertheless, in the first term of this debate, the Labour Party says: that harsh penalty measure of 2012 does not apply to the Labour Party here and now. Too bad, I say. The last point I want to make is about the penalty for ignoring a stadium ban or a reporting obligation. In reply to my group's questions, the Minister explains what is now possible and what is happening. That was not the question, however. I have said that the penalties imposed are judged too low and that ignoring a stadium ban or a reporting obligation is a thorn in the eye for many. I know that the Minister is not about imposing the penalties, but the judge is about the bandwidth that judges have, because that's just legislation. As far as we are concerned, clubs, mayors and judges are given more room to impose higher penalties. Perhaps the Minister will go into this in more detail in the second term. That makes the circle as far as we are concerned. I refer to the motion I have just tabled, because if you delete the word'serious', at least there will be more room for the mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u92	Mr. Chairman. Visiting a football game must be a party. Often it is. Research shows that 97% of the fans feel safe in the stadium. That may also be said, even for the sake of balance, because we have often talked here about football vandalism and football-related violence. There is still violence, there are still hooligans and choirs and there is still aggression in and around stadiums. In the first term, I have expressed the fear that it will get worse. We have to avoid that, because football must be a party. I very much agree with the Minister, who said that explicitly. Football must be a celebration without too many repressive measures such as club cards, combi's, fences and search operations. Let me give you a concrete example of what I have had in my mailbox over the last few days. A man from Doetinchem, supporter of De Graafschap, wrote that he had visited the Telstar-De Graafschap competition last year. 300 supporters of De Graafschap had visited the local catering industry before the competition without discord and after the competition in the cafeteria of Telstar celebrated a joint afterparty. Everyone, including the media, spoke of pure advertising for football. This year's game was played out, in Velsen. At the ticket sales it was known that there was a mandatory autocombi with a switch point at 111 kilometers from Velsen. WTF! I do not have to explain here what that means; let me say for the Acts: why? Because last year Bengal's fireworks had been turned off and there were five supporters heavily drunk in the out-box. So one percent didn't quite meet the standard. There have been no serious incidents. This was emphasised in the evaluation, not on everything that went well. We'll never get out of that vicious circle. You have to reward good behavior, too. The Minister said he wants to reduce the number of mandatory combi's, reduce them, but I haven't heard how he's going to do it yet. He doesn't want to be a caseman tonight, but perhaps he still wants to respond to this example or in general. How are we going to reduce these mandatory combi's? My second question concerns the police monitoring system, which Mr Van Dekken has also asked questions about. Not only the individual, but the whole club is indeed haunted for years. In the past there may have been a violent hard core, but ten years later it may be that the hard core is long gone, there is no new one and there have been no problems for years. However, information from the police monitoring system may still be used to impose certain measures which are no longer sensible, given current events and developments. How does the Minister feel about this? Does he see any possibility of doing anything about it? We have talked a lot about criminal law. People who push up football matches and other events are hooligans and criminals who need to be dealt with strictly. We're not gonna let parties get ruined for the benevolent soccer supporter or the festival visitor. I have asked in the first period and in interruptions to use criminal law more often, but I find it difficult to get this to the Minister in a very concrete way. The fact that he made promises may be too much to say. He did say certain things about it and made comments on it. I'd like to see the results of it in the long run. I would also like to see a change in the relationship between civil stadium bans imposed, 262 in the last year, and criminal law, which had sometimes been justified. In the first term, I asked for a response to the call of the KNVB, among others, to use a platoon of detectives to detect any events, rather than a platoon of the ME. Of course, that is not a literal demand for the Minister. He is not urged to interfere with the efforts of the police. Of course, the police must be cleverly deployed and what is needed must be done. The call should therefore not be taken too literally. The aim must be to tackle rioters. You do that by being smart with detectives, not with the M.E. They don't really belong at the party that's supposed to be a football game. I would like a response from the Minister. I have a motion ready, but I don't think I'll file it. The motion would mean that the Chamber would decide that football should be a celebration again, that we should tackle the rioters and that generic measures should be reduced as much as possible. The motion would call on the government to make additional efforts to this end. I am not going to table this motion if the Minister confirms that he sees it the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u93	If the Minister doesn't, you won't be able to file the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u94	I realize that. Did I understand correctly that the Minister said about the exit ban that we can keep people away from matches under civil law and criminal law, even outside the Netherlands? The co-operation with the mayors in the Netherlands is regulated in very concrete terms in the legislative proposal by adding a provision to the Municipal Law, but this does not of course apply to international competitions. It couldn't be done on the basis of administrative law. My point is that hooligans can be kept away from the games. However, I will not table a motion on that point either. That brings me to prevention. What brings anyone to this misconduct and how do we prevent recurrence? The Minister responded positively to the comments I made in the first term. You should look at what's going on with someone by default and how to prevent it from happening again. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas abuses in and around the football stadium are usually not isolated;]] [[Whereas in many cases people who behave badly have problems in their personal lives with drinking, drugs and controlling aggression;]] [[believes that as much as possible should be done to prevent future misconduct;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that every rioter in addition to the punishment is always imposed as much aggression therapy or addiction treatment as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33882-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u95	I told you, the SP thinks this is a good law. Proper adjustments are proposed. However, it is important to ensure proper application in practice and good cooperation between clubs, the KNVB, the police, the public prosecutor and the municipalities. In short, with this law we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u96	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering my questions. I have tabled two amendments. I have already referred to the changes to my amendments. As far as the administrative measure is concerned, I would like to say that the wish of the KNVB of three years has not come out of the blue. If a mayor has 90 days to distribute for an area ban, a restraining order or a reporting obligation, it will cover three seasons. I note from the discussions that there is insufficient support for this. That's why I went back to two years. There was more support for that. There are still a number of parties that have doubts about it, but with those two years you take two football seasons. Twice 34 games, some cup games and friendly games. This will prevent the mayor from going after the hooligans, which was the Minister's idea. The mayor had to extend three months to one year each time. Now we've made it a year. If you make it two years, someone is at least two seasons out of the picture, especially since we can also take away games now. In this respect, I hope for more support for this measure. As Mr Van Nispen said, the most important thing is the joint approach of government, mayors, police and public prosecutors, together with the KNVB and the paying football organisations, but also with the willing supporters who must try to control their fellow supporters. Together we must do it, and that is the only way it can succeed. We make the tools here, but eventually we have to do it together. I come to the point of the digital reporting obligation. It is true that the Minister has answered my questions, but I hoped there would be more schwung in it. I see that the Minister thinks that the KNVB's trial is a good plan, but we need to complete it now. We're gonna talk about that in March. I hold on to my heart, because I really hope that in the new season, in addition to the physical reporting obligation, we also have the digital reporting obligation throughout the Netherlands. I am counting on the Ministry of Security and Justice to take the lead in this. It must be effective and efficient. The advantage for the police is that they need to use much less capacity in a digital reporting obligation. I would also like to say something about the relationship between civil law and criminal law. However, I know that Mrs Berndsen is going to do the same, so I agree with her in advance. If she comes up with that point, and we're going to make a switch to criminal law, it's important that we monitor the effects properly, so that in a few years' time we can say that it's been a good step, that it's been well seen by the Chamber and by the various parties. Or perhaps we conclude that it has been a wrong step and we need to change it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u97	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering our questions. He has shown himself a servant of the Crown by hiding his football preference. He didn't talk about his club love in the answer. In the first period, several colleagues have been somewhat less secretive about this. Mr Dijkhoff, in particular, has spoken fine words about this. I congratulate him on the fact that the gap between the frontrunner and the number two has grown by two points last weekend. But this aside. The present law has broad support and comes from practice. The KNVB has been behind it. The mayors are gonna work on it. That has the support of the Christian Union Group; let me put it bluntly. I thank the Minister for the handouts he has done. He tasted my concerns regarding the enforcement of the physical reporting obligation. That's what the conversation is about, including with the mayors. If one has to report in the morning and the game is played in the evening, there is a gap that is susceptible to fraud and is prone to evade reporting obligations. We shouldn't want that. Once again, we are going to talk about this. We will also discuss the digital reporting obligation and its further development. We'll wait and see. I have signed Mr Oskam's amendment. We support the two-year period and the mayor's order that can be imposed during that period. I hope this will receive wider support in the Chamber. Furthermore, the Minister said that the role of the mayor will be extensively evaluated. We await that evaluation. We had some concerns on that point too, but the Minister made a generous commitment. We'll wait and see. My group supports the bill. Let us make sure that football is a good party and stays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u98	Mr. Chairman. This bill takes good steps in the possible approach of hooligans. It makes the stakes more effective. My group supports Mr Oskam's amended amendment. I hope that the majority of the House can support this amendment so that mayors can impose the measures more effectively and do more in the football context than impose a one-year measure. We look forward to the much discussed digital reporting obligation with interest. It will have to be a step towards effective enforcement. The imposition of a stadium ban is already in place, but of course it is important to enforce it. There has been some discussion on the next point in the last week, including in the media. The Minister has already indicated that the mayor always has to make his own decision. That makes sense; it is not the case that the KNVB finds something and that the mayor takes it blindly. There is now uncertainty as to whether the mayor can rely on what is happening at the stadium. If the KNVB has found certain things on the basis of the cameras in the stadium that have to hang there in order to be able to participate in the competition at all and has also shared them with the government, the mayor may, in my opinion, impose measures such as a land ban on what happened in the stadium. There seems to be confusion about that, including in legal history. I ask the Minister to clarify this. It would be weird if someone had to do something outside the stadium before the mayor could base his actions on it. The final objective is, of course, standardisation. Mr Van Dekken will also be tabling a motion on my behalf. "Normalization" is in itself a strange word, but it means that one can just go to the stadium in a cozy, normal way if one has nothing evil in mind. I understand that the Minister says that the combis are a matter for the mayor and that he cannot judge it; the mayors use it if necessary, but it should not happen too often. I also understand that the Minister cannot say that he prefers police rather than a lot of ME, but it is good to note that the broad feeling in the Chamber tends to do so. The way in which we conduct the debate and the way in which we look at the problem is, in my view, important for practice. We must note that we have completed the first major phase, the stage in which we had to separate the chaff from the chaff. At that stage we needed generic, some crude measures that affected every supporter and everyone, to be able to properly filter where the problem was and who it was. We must also note that it is now time to go to phase 2, in which we focus more on the bastards and the evildoers and in which it is generally more pleasant and enjoyable to experience a competition and go there. After all, 97% of the supporters already feel safe. That's much better than it used to be. Most supporters also do no harm, unless we are going to make a lot of criticism of inner mouths mumbled power terms. Most people do well and go to football in a good way. For them, we must also ensure that it gets even better and safer. I wish them all a lot of fun with the rest of the competition, and the fans from Eindhoven a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u99	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It's nice that he wanted to meet me like this. There are wise people in the First Chamber. That seems to be the case, because that is where they have already asked for all the powers the mayors have. We await that investigation with interest. It is a pity that it will not be until the end of this year, but better a good, thorough research than that we can do nothing with it. However, we remain concerned about the relationship between administrative law and criminal law. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, that point will have to be clarified in that study. In that light, D66 believes that investigations should be carried out to deal with a larger proportion of football-related violence through criminal law. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in many cases football vandalism and serious nuisance is simply criminal behaviour;]] [[Whereas the relationship between civil and criminal stadium bans appears to be distorted;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibility of treating a larger proportion of football-related violence through criminal law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33882-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u100	Finally, the pilots. I am glad that there are more positive sounds at this second term than there were in the first term. Apparently, it is now clear that it is a reasonably fraud-proof instrument. I had prepared a motion because I actually hope that the Minister will start using this digital instrument as soon as possible. I said it in an interruption: it is important, because it requires much less capacity from the police, as it can all go through the control room. The Minister is positive, but it will be a while before the steering group talks about this. The minister said early March. However, there is a need for continuity, as several colleagues have already said. Let us try to have this instrument in place for the new football season. I therefore call on the Minister to speed it up and inform the Chamber as soon as he has consulted the management group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u101	Mr. Chairman. The soccer law 2.0, I'd almost like to say. I am extremely pleased to note that in the House of Representatives there is a broad majority in favour of this law, a football law which has also been shaped by the initiative paper of myself and Mr........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In that sense, I would like to thank the Minister for his work. We can therefore give our total support to the football law. I would like to make a comment about the Football Track System, but that has already been done by the colleague of the SP. I would like to say one thing, and that is not insignificant in the fight against violence, particularly in amateur football. It has come to my attention that the project Towards a safer sports climate....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My group would very much like to see this project continued beyond 2016, because the violence in amateur football is certainly not over and a lot of amateur football clubs are asking for it. I'm asking the Minister for a response to that. My colleague from the VVD has already announced that I would also make a motion on his behalf for the good supporters. The Chamber, heard the debate, Considering that, in addition to the consistent approach of notorious rioters, as much fun and football experience as possible should be sought for the millions of benevolent football fans; believes that these fans should simply be able to enjoy a competition without facing club card obligations and mandatory combi arrangements; Calls on the Government to consult with all relevant partners, including at least the KNVB, football clubs, municipalities, police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and supporters' associations, on how to achieve a more open and public friendly football, and to send the results of this consultation to the Chamber before 1 August 2015, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Van Dekken and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 20 (33882).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u102	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the honourable Members for their second-term contribution. A single difference of opinion on a number of points sometimes separates our interests, but you never know, I say to Mrs Helder. I think it is extremely good that we stand together here firmly for this so important element of this wonderful sport. Everyone knows where I stand in football, I say to Mr Segers. You can see that every two weeks in De Kuip or on the Robin van Persie-tribune at Excelsior, where I watch football with my grandson behind the goal. I thought Mr Oskam said it nicely: it's just together. I do not need to name all the parties again, but as he said, we must also involve the supporters and be generous to the good supporters. We do that every time, and that's important. The teams need the supporters, but we also do it for the supporters. We must make sure that the small group that ruins it for the rest is dealt with hard on all fronts. That's good. I have a feeling that we are going to lay down a law with each other here in the Lower House that has a good basis for support. That's very important. I come to the questions of the various Members. I'm not going to tell Mrs. Helder what separates us anymore. What binds us is to just wait and see what the initiative proposal comes up with. This time, on behalf of the cabinet, I will serve her as an advisor. What the advice will be, we will see at that time. So I am not going to repeat that situation again. I can say something about the motion in part No. 17, requesting that the word "serious" be deleted from "serious nuisance." My answer is no, because it did not come in for nothing. This is about proportionality. It wasn't there at first. We give the mayors, at their request, wider powers and they are further extended in the amendment. I leave that to the Chamber with all my heart, but I also support it. It is very important that we give our unanimous support to the mayors, but that is why I have to move on to item No. 17 dissuaded. In light of the proportionality, it is reasonable for the mayor to impose a measure on the basis of the APV for minor facts in the case of a first offender. I come to the Oskam amendment on item No. 15. Why I am not in favour of the ten-year measure, I have already indicated it in the first term, so I can leave it at that. Otherwise, we're gonna repeat it without bringing anything new into the discussion. I come to Mr Van Nispen's remarks. I repeat what I said at my opening: football must be a party. Mr Van Nispen has also made this very clear. With regard to the targeted combi's, I would like to say once again that we must limit generic measures as much as possible. That is important, but I do not deny that from time to time a targeted combi measure by bus, car or train is necessary, from the point of view of maintaining public order. But the direction in which Mr Van Nispen and Mr Dijkhoff spoke is the same as we all do. Mr Van Nispen also mentioned the Football Following System. I have already said to Mr Van Dekken: the monitoring system will, of course, always be judged by its shortcomings, if there are any. We need to monitor our instruments more and more closely. This point is important for implementation. We are talking about implementation issues here, but they are essential. No one should suffer from getting into such a system, while just sitting in the stadium every two weeks and cheering at the right time. So we feel the same way about that. Mr Van Nispen wants to see the results. So do I, so we can share that. We have a monitor for that with the CIV report coming up every year. That's what the facts are in there. In the debate, Mr Oskam and Mr Dijkhoff also spoke about the fact that we feel that we should have a certain phase behind us. We need to tackle those who are involved in a personal approach. That's important. I will try to make that visible in the results of the approach we are presenting on this subject every year. Then, of course, we're talking about a clever way of dealing with rioters. Let's be clear about that. I come to the Van Nispen motion on part No. 18. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. I'm not supposed to dissuade her, but I'll do it. It is important to adopt a tailor-made approach. Let us give room here in the legislation to the authorities who must ensure that it becomes a celebration. Preventive and repressive measures must be taken into account. Local case transfers, for example in a Security House, can contribute to this. I am prepared to bring this point to the attention of the cooperating partners. I'm not ruling out what's written here, but I'm advising the Chamber not to make a ruling on this in a motion. In fact, I have to advise against that. I'll take it with me in my consultation as such. Then I come to Mr Oskam's contribution. In the Oskam c.s. amendment in piece No. 16 is about "two years." I've already named it and supported it my way. Two seasons out of the picture is a clear story. That can be very good and is also proportional. A common approach is the core. I would like to underline that once again. A number of Members have spoken about a digital reporting obligation. We're trying to speed up here. I do so with my enthusiasm, which, of course, everyone warns me of, all day long, with every subject. But even I can't break iron with hands. I need to discuss this with the other partners properly and thoroughly. I will take the Chamber completely open in that consultation. It gives me support that everyone here thinks this is important too. I have answered the questions put by Mr Dijkhoff and Mrs Berndsen. I am glad that no motion has been tabled on this, because a motion will not change this either. That's the way it is. Sometimes it is a pity that motions cannot change things, but it is the reality. I should like to thank Mr Segers for his challenge. Apparently, he doesn't know where I am in football country. He's one of the few, I hope. I've said it now. I thank him for his support and the way in which he has said it. Then I come to Mr Dijkhoff's contribution. It is true that the mayor can use the information from the clubs about behaviour in the stadium to take action. The mayor's policy isn't about his or her entire city except the stadium. That's about everything. He has the balance to make on his own and may take advantage of the information that the club has. He can, of course, ask for that. There is no misunderstanding about that, so as far as I am concerned, if there were any, that discussion was concluded with your agreement today. I would also like to thank Mr Dijkhoff for what he said about the ME and the police. Let's be clear about that, too. Of course we have to detect in a smart way. That's why the Public Prosecutor, in the form of the Chief Prosecutor or the Public Prosecutor responsible, sits at every exciting game to blow his or her party along. Not only is public order maintained, which the mayor is about, but also aftercare in criminal law is followed up. It's good to call it that in phase 2 of the process. Mrs Berndsen once again came back to the issue of administrative/criminal law. I do not need to investigate that further or tighten it up at all, because that is already happening. You should be careful, too. If you are going to investigate this again, not too strong parties might say: we are not going to do anything first; we are waiting for the investigation. That's a habit in some people when there's an investigation going on. I would like to warn Mrs Berndsen about that. On the basis of the content, I would like her motion in part No. 19 dissuaded. I said what I said about the digital reporting obligation. That's where we'll find each other in the Chamber. I would like to thank Mr Van Dekken for his speech. He also mentioned the Football Following System. I do not need to repeat what I said at first. What Mr Van Dekken said about a safer sports climate appealed to me. I think that is very important. I will discuss this with my colleague Schippers. It's not yet 2016, so it's still going on. Whether or not we continue this, I need to discuss with the Minister of the United States of America. I wouldn't be able to find a reason to stop it right away. Can I put it this way? That's what I'm really talking about. Members know where I stand with that. If it suddenly gets stopped, they'll know who it's up to. Edith Schippers doesn't mind me saying that, because I know a little what she thinks. But we need to take an orderly decision, evaluate and look at this. I shall now proceed to the motion for a resolution on part No. 20 members of Van Dekken and Dijkhoff. I would have heard this debate say: who could object to it? I don't. Then you could call her redundant, but I don't like that with regard to the proposers. I would therefore like to leave it entirely to the wisdom of the Chamber to judge this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-26.u103	Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions and for his response to the motions. Thank you all for your input or for your interest. The vote on the motions tabled, the amendments and the legislative proposal is scheduled for next Tuesday.
