ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u1	I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. We are only doing the first term on the side of the Chamber tonight. I appeal to you to set it up with the interruptions in such a way that we are ready at a little Christian time. What that is, I will explain the SGP later. That's gonna be for Sunday. Mrs. Ouwehand has signed off on illness. I give the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. "Even in times of economic boom, profitable and well-managed companies may experience problems attracting sufficient debt capital. For example, in innovative projects, where the expected return will only be achieved after a considerable time, such as renewable energy projects. There, the market is far from always willing to take risks and capture entrepreneurs from lenders. This was so in the 20th century and this is now unabated." I wrote this myself in 2010 and it was a contribution to the initiative paper "A new national investment bank." I understand from the general political considerations that a new national innovation bank, including a NIB, is being properly considered in the cabinet. I ask the Minister how far that is going. A new national investment bank or a new national innovation bank: what's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smile as sweet. I don't care, but let's just say that today's coalition partners have become aware that there is a need for an innovation or investment bank. I am very pleased with that. It's very necessary. The supplementary action plan, which is now a year old, has eight potential financiers, but only next year there will be a view of subordinated loans from the Action Plan. The Dutch Investment Institution has been set up for two years and has not yet granted any loans. Is that true? It's a future fund filled with windfalls at natural gas revenues. But are they gonna come? According to the Court of Auditors, the Ministry also says that this is not going to happen. Then the Dutch Investment Agency. The Minister comes with an investment agency without money and without legal status, while every other European country has a development bank. Those who set up the Dutch Investment Agency, Mr Kremers, advocate a German-style bank. I come to the point of competition. The committee has recently made an interesting work visit. I believe that a number of colleagues who are present today were there, at least Mrs Vos and Mr De Love. It was very interesting. Good and important work is being done there. More and more tasks, more sectors, are under the supervision of the Consumer & Market Authority, including care, competition between general practitioners, social security, competition between pension funds, public transport and rail freight. Now working doctors are a cartel the patient could be the victim of? Moreover, the ACM is not always budgeted for new tasks that it is required to perform. Is the ACM still able to perform its task properly as a consumer authority and market leader? And why, above all, do we look so narrowly at what market power is? That discussion has been in the Chamber for a number of years. Purchasing power from, for example, health insurers and supermarket purchasing organisations is equally essential market power. Is it not time to rethink this concept? Then I come to the issue of ICT policy and the advice of the Science, Technology and Innovation Advisory Council. In its report, the Elias Commission indicated that knowledge and skills for the proper implementation of ICT projects are lacking in the government. In the AWTI report "Ready for the Future?" shows that there is no strategy for how ICT will play a role in government and society in the future. Meijer, author of the report and member of the AWTI, says we're asleep. That sounds to me like ringing a bell in the ears. May I have a response from the Minister to this? Dan TenderNed, again. In 2015, TenderNed was hit by 21 failures during office hours, which lasted on average an hour. By far the largest part of this took place in the first half of 2015, but more and more contracting authorities are switching over, such as Rijkswaterstaat on 1 September. Users are disgruntled. Many features do not work as they should work and do not get priority from the developers. How does the Minister see this? Then the point of pay-as-you-go payment in case of illness. The Roemer motion, tabled at the General Political Affairs Committee and adopted unanimously, asked the government to examine the possibilities of reducing the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The interdepartmental policy research that involved thezzp'er is very thin on this point. The main solution comes from the study of Kansrijk labour market policy of the Central Planning Bureau, namely a collective insurance for the second year of illness with an opt-out option. This is the subject of discussion by the cabinet with associations of undertakings. How are these conversations progressing? After all, there must be a plan for Christmas. I hear this as one of the main causes for small businesses which are a brake on the recruitment of new staff. So I would like a clear response from the Minister on this point. Then I come to the subject of innovation. Recently, I visited an agricultural entrepreneur who has developed an innovative product to filter ammonia, fine dust and odour from a stable. As a result, the environment suffers much less from the side effects of livestock farming. However, it is also difficult for this entrepreneur to obtain funding from the bank, but above all the ammonia and livestock regime does not allow for the identification of the type or brand of equipment to be placed in stable concepts. This means that piracy is lurking, with no guarantees of quality and hence of environmental gain. I mention this example not only because it is a beautiful company that I see the entrepreneur fights with heart for his future, but also because it is an illustration of how a small self-employed person can sometimes get involved in regulation and find it difficult to get into the right bodies. In this case, for example, they may be universities or supervisory bodies, which can ensure that they can continue to work with what they most believe in. From the entrepreneur in question I got a USB stick with information on it. It is not common to hand over things, but this can be seen as a USB stick with a text on it. On this point, I would like to hand it over to the Minister through the messenger. I hope the Minister will have a chance to look at this for the second term and then react. Then there is the issue of the European Patent Organisation...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u3	But only after Mr Verhoeven of D66 has placed the first interruption of this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u4	I welcome the point made by Mrs Gesthuizen about the entrepreneur who is working on innovative solutions and is stuck in rules. D66 has been trying to modernise as many laws and regulations as possible for a year. At least that is what we are asking the Minister, who is also working on it. The SP Group sometimes tends to focus less on innovation and opt more for small and medium-sized enterprises, for example. That is a choice in itself, but is the SP Group also prepared to participate in the modernisation of laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u5	Modernising laws, I will be very pleased as long as this is also an improvement in the existing situation. It is, of course, a bit difficult to respond to a general statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u6	Yes, I am, but I am already very happy that Mrs Gesthuizen is trying, for example, in this area. For example, this is very close to legislation restricting it for farmers to work with drones. There are rules that prevent you from compiling animal feed in a certain way because of legislation. Those are all things you could actually look at. Does the SP want to take part in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u7	Oh, yeah. I think I have been doing this for almost nine years, but if Mr Verhoeven has good initiatives, I will, of course, take a good look at it. I will move quickly on to the diplomatic inviolable European Patent Organisation (EOO) in Rijswijk. The right to strike is restricted, the working conditions are poor, the privacy of employees is violated and the labour inspection is not allowed to enter while the organisation violates human rights. The latter has been confirmed by the Hague Court, which considers that immunity should not go so far as to violate general fundamental rights recognised in Europe. But what does the Netherlands do? She once exhorted the EOO, hid behind diplomatic immunity and in the meantime joined the procedure which the EOO instituted with the Supreme Court. This shows that the Netherlands is more concerned about diplomatic relations than about human rights. What exactly is this about, I ask the Minister. Then I come to the subject of energy. I would like to make a number of comments on this, even though there are still a lot of energy debates that my colleague, Mr Smaling, who is also here, will be taking place. The National Energy Exploratory just appeared. It seems necessary to us to quickly get a picture of what does and does not work and why it does. It is important to step up the pace of housing isolation and to make the energy transition more of the people, for example by increasing support and participation and taking land-based wind farms more seriously. This doesn't look like much right now. I would also like to know from the government how it will benefit from events such as the Urgenda case and Volkswagengate. The energy saving figures show that industry lags significantly behind the commitments in the covenant. What's the Minister gonna do with that? Then I come to the heat roundabout South Holland. At this point, we would like to see the uneconomic summit covered. The aim is to have 350 000 connections by 2020 to achieve a 60% CO reduction. This can and should contribute to the relief of the Groningen gas field. What are the government's plans in this respect? I'm considering a motion on this point. Finally, I would like to comment on the gas extraction in Groningen. It is really incomprehensible that the 2016-2020 budget assumes 33 billion m of gas. The outcome of the many debates was to start with a 30 billion m extraction by 2015. On top of that, 3 billion was found from the reserve. It would have ordained the Minister not to go above 30 billion for the forthcoming budgets and therefore to do what a majority of the Chamber has said. I don't think I can explain this to the Groningers. In addition to the tensions of all quakes, they get almost every week an avalanche of incomprehensible reports from last week's report on safe houses in Schildwolde and Usquert, which suddenly turned out to be unsafe after ten days, until they cannot take out legal aid insurance because of the same quakes. With the plan Shoulders under Groningen, the SP has come with a cover for a phasing-out of the extraction until 2020. Where there is a will, there is a solution. Stop talking about helping the Groninger nerves! How far does the Minister think he can get back now that he wants to keep the Groningen gas field as a reserve? Then I come to my final remarks. Should we not accelerate with the extraction down because, firstly, the people in Groningen still feel extremely unsafe and poorly heard, secondly, the gas is almost run out anyway and thirdly, the gas price is so low at the moment, that the bit that is left can be won better if the price is higher again? I'll close with that. In the meantime, I assume colleagues have also taken note of my two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u8	Mr. Chairman. Almost all signals for our economy are on the green again. There are good ecoomic growth rates. Consumer spending is rising. The number of jobs is increasing. Fewer companies are going bankrupt and industrial production is increasing. The Netherlands again ranks fifth among the most competitive economies in the world according to the Global Competitiveness Report 2015-2016, an authoritative publication of the World Economic Forum. This fifth place is after countries like Switzerland, Singapore, the United States and Germany and still for countries like Japan, the United Kingdom and Sweden. This Minister of Economic Affairs deserves a great deal, but that is no reason to sit back. There are still plenty of challenges. In fact, we still have four countries to catch up on. Now we need to keep our course and not just for all those people who are doing well, but for all those who are not. Because with regard to the flexible labour market, in the same important report we score a poor 131st place and the main problem is the obstructive regulation of labour. Now the flexible labour market and the obstructive regulations are in the area of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Minister Asscher, but I would nevertheless like to call on the Cabinet to increase that place on the ranking. What opportunities can the Dutch entrepreneur get if that flexible work would also be placed in place five of the world ranking list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u9	Mr Bosman talks about place five according to the World Economic Forum and that we have to catch up with the four countries that are still above us. I totally agree with him. First of all, Switzerland. What could we learn from Switzerland to take that country from that first place and come first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u10	Switzerland has... I find that a difficult one, I'll be honest with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u11	Mountains?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u12	Mountains. When you look at the economy, of course, there is a lot of water energy there. This means that the economy is different, there is more room in the budget and you have the opportunity to stimulate and deploy your budget and your economy in a different way. And maybe they have less regulation, which I can just imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u13	If Mr Bosman wants to rise on the ranking list and want to become the number one, he has to look into what that number one has that we do not have. I think it is very simple: Switzerland is not in the EU and is not a member of the euro area. Switzerland has higher economic growth than the Netherlands. Since we are in the euro area, Switzerland has experienced higher economic growth every year than the Netherlands. Do we find Mr Bosman on our way when we say that we must leave the EU and the eurozone because we want to become the number one, just like Switzerland?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u14	No, because if you want to deal with Europe, you will still have to meet the requirements. That is equally important for every other country. You can say I have to meet the requirements, but I have no control. You can also say: I do have control and I meet the demands. I'm gonna choose the last one anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u15	So Mr Bosman does not choose to be number one. Apparently, Switzerland doesn't lay wind eggs. Switzerland can do whatever it wants and has nothing to do with the EU. Switzerland can conclude a free trade agreement with China, which we are still waiting for. Switzerland simply has much more potential than we have, because it has no liability in the form of an EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u16	I understand the PVV is for the TTIP treaty. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u17	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u18	Yeah, 'cause we're about to close. That is important and that is good for the economy. That's what Mrs Klever just said, so that's nice to hear. She said that Switzerland benefits from the fact that it is not in the European Union, but that is a claim that I cannot simply support. I think it takes an important amount of knowledge to claim that. I don't have that knowledge. My ambition is to make the Netherlands more competitive. We do this by focusing on less regulation for businesses and certainly on the flexibility of the labour market. That's my ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u19	Mr Bosman has a great ambition: he wants to go first. I think that's a very good ambition. He said proudly that we have risen from eighth to fifth, which is indeed a good development; I am happy to admit that. In the same list, however, we have fallen from place 11 to place 16 in the field of investment in innovation, i.e. what the government pays for research and development and research into all kinds of new finds, products and services. We have failed to do so, but the government continues to cut back on scientific research and innovation. Is the VVD gonna do anything about getting this part place one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u20	I think it is important that we always have that ambition. But we need to look at how we fit it into our budget. In other words, we need to look at where we get the money. In my speech, I ask how we deal with knowledge institutes. What space do they have, what has happened in recent times and how do we deal with it in the future? I will immediately put that question to the Minister, but I am also allowed to be quietly asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u21	I'm glad. Mr Bosman will be talking shortly, when it comes to the research institutes, perhaps about a few million. I am now talking about amounts in the order of hundreds of millions of dollars, perhaps one billion dollars for research and innovation. The cabinet itself endorsed the Lisbon objective. We now have four billion too little...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u22	You're going a little bit of your own term now...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u23	What is the VVD Group doing to ensure that we deliver on these kinds of promises and thus actually invest in innovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u24	A budget is a balanced whole and is made up of agreements that we must jointly make. As well as there are ambitions in many different areas of economic activity, there are considerations that need to be made and brought together in the fields of education, social security and certainly defence. It's easy to say you take a billion dollars that you add to the budget. I think it is important to look at the possibilities and potentials of the knowledge institutes. In the past, savings have been made on this. I would like to know how this austerity has happened and how we can deal with it in the future, in order to guarantee research and development in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u25	It is good that the VVD also sees that flexibility in the labour market is a major problem. When I come to entrepreneurs, I hear them constantly talking about the second year of pay-as-you-go in case of illness. An ibo report just came out. How concrete, according to the VVD, is the ibo report translated into policies that meet entrepreneurs? I would like to receive an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u26	The flexibilisation of the labour market is not so much a question of focusing on thezzp'er but of how the employer deals with the employee. What is the scope for the employer to take on the employee in a good way? This means that the employer and the employee will have to distribute the desires and burdens well. They must be well-balanced. In this way you get the most beautiful form of employment and entrepreneurship, where the entrepreneur has the space to hire people and, if things go less well, to fire them and where contracts can be concluded in different, flexible ways rather than rigidly limited deadlines that often lead to dismissal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u27	The CDA hears from a lot of entrepreneurs that this is one of the limitations for hiring staff at the moment. I see Mr Bosman nodding in agreement; he recognizes this. I have actually recognized this point for a number of years. What is Mr Bosman of the VVD going to do to speed up this very difficult journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u28	We're working on it and we think it's important. The VVD has the ambition to flexibilise the labour market. However, she is also in a coalition in which things are agreed with each other to move forward. Within the coalition, we are moving forward in this direction for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u29	May I conclude that the VVD has not made any progress with this because of the cooperation in the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u30	No. We hang out together and think it's both important to improve the Dutch economy and get ready for this. Those results have been achieved. We are absolutely entitled to attribute that to this cabinet. Employment may be still a little behind schedule, but it is the last of all the green indicators. Indicators such as consumer confidence, entrepreneurial confidence and investment are already on the green; then employment comes. Everything's gonna run and I'm just proud of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u31	Mr Bosman began by saying that he has ambition to get higher on the rankings. Does this apply only to this ranking or to another ranking, that of clean energy? Does the VVD have the ambition to raise a place or three or four on that list?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u32	I'll get to that later. The VVD does not specifically opt for a particular technique, but if we enter into this discussion: thorium could be a wonderful means of providing energy in a very clean way, CO-free, the Dutch economy and perhaps other economies. That would certainly be a good solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u33	That was not an answer to my question. It was a plea for a specific technique, while the VVD always says not to be in favour of a specific technique. I'm gonna ask my question again. Does the VVD also have the ambition to rise on the clean energy ranking, on which the Netherlands is now dangling at the bottom, with countries like Malta and Cyprus? Let us not be too ambitious: place number one may be unfeasible for the time being, but a place or three or four should be able to go up. It is increasingly a large employer in the Netherlands. Then I'm talking about clean energy. Does the VVD have that ambition, or does it have that ambition only for some rankings and not for this one?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u34	No. Clean energy is important. In fact, this cabinet bets on that. The VVD bets on that, too. To that end, we have concluded an energy agreement with many parties in society. By 2023, the share of clean energy should be 16%. Looks like we're just gonna make it. I'm very proud of that. It is also the commitment of the Cabinet and the Minister to achieve this objective. GroenLinks is on its own served: there are goals and we are going to achieve them, especially in the area of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u35	I conclude that an increase of one place or three or four in the European renewable energy ranking is also the objective of the VVD. I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u36	I am less pleased that the speaker has spoken 1 minute and 26 seconds, but it has already been here for 12 minutes. In this way, there is not much of our intention to keep the interruptions short and flashy. A debate is fine, but let's try to get that to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u37	I'm just gonna come back to the labour market. Mrs Mulder spoke about this in an interruption, but Mr Bosman himself spoke about it. He wants a flexible labour market. Does Mr Bosman recognise that it was precisely the VVD that supported the Work and Security Act? In fact, this law was passed in a coalition with the VVD in it. On the contrary, this law has led to less flexibility in the labour market. Does Mr Bosman recognize this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u38	Yes, I am absolutely aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u39	Does Mr Bosman regret the support for this law and the drafting of this law? Now he's gonna argue for something to be undone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u40	No, maybe Mrs. Schouten should be in a coalition sometime to see if she can accomplish things. You'll have responsibilities and you'll make decisions. You're making trade-offs to improve the economy. You have to do that together with a party that sometimes looks at society in a different way. However, we will come out together and we will take steps towards the future. After all, the ambition of this cabinet was to take the Netherlands out of the crisis. If you look at all the signals and where we are now, I am really proud to say that together with the Labour Party, and sometimes with the coalition partners, we have pulled the Netherlands out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u41	It may have been a bit before Mr Bosman's time, but my group was in a coalition once, so we know how things work. However, I think it is a little cheap to introduce a law less than a year ago which limits flexibility and now to say that we should not want it. Then the VVD should have launched a proposal to change that law, or even take it off the table. The plea doesn't lead anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u42	Rule is forethought! You have to look to the future and the way you want to move on. Nor can we say: we have abolished nuclear energy, so we no longer think about it. No, that's still something to think about; that still has consequences for the future. We need to see what the possibilities are for that. Again, I'm with the VVD, a liberal party. My party looks at society differently from other parties in this house. But it doesn't mean that if you're in a coalition, you can't think about what your future looks like. I still think that is a good point. And, of course, I am sticking to the legislation we have and with which we have taken steps to make this economy better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u43	The VVD is rightly proud of the fact that we have one of the five most competitive economies in the world. The Minister has a role in this too. However, there are other lists. That's where we score the lowest. 44% of all SME credit applications are rejected. We are worse than Greece, the lowest in the euro area. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u44	It is important that SMEs have access to finance. Banks must have and can have the space for that. An entrepreneur must come to a bank with a good story; the business plan must be right. I can't see if all that's right. All signals, including in the Dutch economy, with all the potential of the different schemes available in the Netherlands, indicate that it is possible for start-ups or companies to obtain a credit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u45	Do I understand correctly that the VVD says that small SMEs have bad plans and that they cannot present themselves properly to banks? Do I understand correctly that in all countries, even in Greece, the small SME gets credit and not here in the Netherlands? Is Mr Bosman blaming SMEs, the small businessman? What specific measures does he have to encourage the Minister to step up the list?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u46	Of course, that's a bit short. The economy needs to be better; that is essential. If the economy gets better, the signals are there too: all the signals are on the green side, the investments are also coming. This will increase employment. You can say the government has to intervene, but I think we should be very careful. We need to see if the business that's about to run is going to go well. You can say that everything has to be done and that this cabinet has to take care of everything, but a lot has already been arranged and a lot is already in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u47	This entrepreneurial party tells the small businessman that it is about improving the economy. It is not important that this entrepreneur does not get credit and that we score lower than Greece, because we do not dare to tackle the banks. I'm sorry to hear that from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u48	Well, Mr Öztürk has heard that quite wrong, because that is not true. Tackling the banks is, of course, also a strange discussion, because banks have their own responsibilities. That's what we've been talking about in this Chamber. They have an independent responsibility for their own buffers and their own financial position, as well as for all the risks that need to be weighed up. Of course, the entrepreneur will benefit from a good credit, but many possibilities are available for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u49	I call Mr Dijkgraaf. Then we will continue with the story of Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u50	My question is simple. Mr Bosman referred to thorium as a potentially good source of energy, at least for the time being, as long as we do not have 100% renewable energy. Does Mr Bosman in his text also have any questions about this to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u51	I can't say that directly. I think so, but I do not know whether I have formulated it as a question or more as a general comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u52	Then I suggest that I wait and see if those questions about thorium are in Mr Bosman's speech. 'Cause I do have them. Is the Minister going to support this enough to get it off the ground? I'll wait and see. If it's not, I'll be back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u53	That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u54	I have a question about thorium to Mr Bosman. When does he expect it to contribute to the sustainable energy supply in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u55	If everything works out, it could be 20 to 25 years from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u56	Fine. Then we'll be in 2040. The point is that we are equally clear that it is not a solution that would mean that people would no longer have to plant solar panels tomorrow or that we would not have to plant windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u57	I'm still working on the economics part of my contribution and I'm not yet in energy. I'm just gonna finish my economics and then I'm gonna get to energy. Then I'm sure we'll be in touch. Mr. Chairman. In the coming years, the digital world will only become more interwoven with society and the economy. This offers huge opportunities for our business. We have to take those opportunities. The Netherlands must show more courage and offer space for new ideas, knowledge and earning models. For our prosperity, it is crucial that ambitious entrepreneurs are given the opportunity to respond to changes. Those were the words of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in his traditional New Year's article at the beginning of this year. In doing so, he called for legislative adjustments. Following that, the Minister sent a letter in July on future future-proof laws and regulations. Many studies have been announced, but the risk, as is often the case with investigations from and before the Chamber, is that we do not hear from them anymore. I would therefore ask the Minister to turn the ambition of his highest official into action. Laws like the Telecommunications Act, the Post Act, the Media Act, the Copyright Act and the Privacy Act date back to the time when the mobile phone was the same size as a cooler. The innovation in the field of telephones has already taken place; now the laws and regulations are still in place. That is why, two years ago, the VVD called on the Minister to come forward with proposals to the Chamber with a broad-based motion. Now, two years on, we are in the phase of some investigations and a joint approach has been launched with the Minister of Security and Justice and the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. How is the Minister going to speed up this process? Can the Minister come to the Chamber with an ambitious timetable of concrete actions? Within the European Union, it is agreed to end roaming by 15 June 2017. Consumers will thus continue to pay too much for calls and internet services abroad in the next two years. Fortunately, we can ease the pain a bit by killing the raoming costs in the Benelux much faster than in 2017. In July, the VVD proposed to abolish roaming within the Benelux as soon as possible. The Minister undertook in July to examine what is possible within the Benelux. I ask the Minister about the state of affairs, because we are three and a half months away. It's not that complicated. Several providers from Belgium and Luxembourg have already put this into practice and have abolished roaming charges. We are at the beginning of an energy transition. Big steps need to be taken, but we won't be home soon. The energy transition takes time, time in which innovation is also taking place. This innovation is important to make renewable energy increasingly competitive. The public authorities must set clear frameworks for this. With this we allow market players to shape the transition. Think of tidal energy, smart grids and large-scale energy storage. Of course we have an energy agreement, to which we give substance. The Chamber has a large majority of responsibility for shaping energy policy for civil society organisations. That was not the choice of the VVD, but if we give up that responsibility by a majority, we must also be able to give confidence that it will be okay. The Minister has worked hard on this and results are being achieved. According to the National Energy Exploratory, which has just been published, we are on the right track before 2023. According to the Minister, the 2020 target requires additional measures. He's gonna pick it up, too. As far as I am concerned, we are implementing it, but in 2016 we will look fully into the whole agreement through the evaluation. As far as my group is concerned, it is important to keep a cool head and continue on the road that has been taken. Hasty additional measures are not helping. We can see that, in pursuing different objectives, they sometimes get in the way of each other. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, our energy policy is going to steer only one objective, and that is CO reduction. We can achieve that CO target through a well-functioning European CO pricing mechanism, the ETS. This is a mechanism in which the best performing companies will pay the least. By benchmarking between companies, a competitive innovation will naturally come about, whereby when you are the best you pay the least, but also the best for the environment. This is how we use the market and companies to come up with smart solutions that reduce CO production. This will enable us to make a transition to a sustainable energy supply, but also to an innovative energy sector. This energy sector is under enormous pressure. The concern is that we will have a power shortage already in 2019 during peak demand. That is not only my concern, but also that of energy producers. How are we gonna catch this? Our neighbouring countries will not be able to help us because they are facing the same development. If 2019 is already a problem, how do we guarantee the hot shower in 2030? That is the time when many windmills need to be renewed. Are we going to take those billions off again to replace them? Why not use it now on molten salt reactors, or thorium reactors, which can run for 50 years? By then, the mills will be able to leave and we will have the most stable form of energy generation you can imagine with minimal CO emissions. If we are going to support this innovation, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u58	That's a very nice question. Quite specifically, I think Mr Bosman also knows that we have an experimental plant. It actually needs money in the years to come in order to move forward. If we are to be able to use thorium energy in 20 years' time, we do not yet know whether it will be possible to do so. Does Mr Bosman agree with me that this should be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u59	I think it is wise to use innovation as widely as possible. This includes thorium. The problem is that nuclear energy is not covered by renewable energy. That is a very difficult discussion, even within Europe. How are we gonna handle this? I do notice that within Europe we are once again looking at how we can take steps. In Germany, there is a large knowledge institute working with Delft. I think China and India are already looking much more closely at how to set up these kinds of power stations. If we start thinking in front of the Netherlands in time, with our truly brilliant knowledge institutes, we can take a part of that. I expect this to have a potential for global coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u60	If I interpret this answer correctly, it is not enough for Mr Bosman to say 'interesting, but I am waiting for what is happening on a global scale' on Thursday, but the Minister really needs to come up with a story on how he is going to facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u61	I expect the Minister to come up with a clear story on what the energy transition is going to look like, what ambition there is in it and what possibilities he sees in it. We are also bound by sustainability criteria. If it is not covered by the sustainability criteria, there is another challenge for me to explain. I understand that it is difficult to say that you want to do this in the context of sustainability if you are tied with one arm behind your back because of sustainability criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u62	That's a little too easy. We must also engage in this debate, and thorium is quite different from nuclear energy. Mr Bosman knows that as well as I do. Does he think it is in the long term in the interest of the Netherlands that the Minister should specifically promote this thorium project?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u63	It would be a good thing for me if Economic Affairs, too, understood the importance of this and looked at how there would be an opportunity in the future to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u64	In the calculations that Mr Bosman just released, I think there was a ten-year gap in which we are going to have a cold shower. He just said thorium won't be there until 2040, when we'll get a cold shower from 2030. I hope not and do not think this is necessary. We also support innovation in the broad sense, but I hope that something will come out sooner. I have a specific question. Mr Bosman said that we must move towards one objective. Is this whole energy policy for the VVD Group just about the threat of climate change or, for example, does it see geopolitical aspects of the whole energy transition we are in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u65	If you make all aspects, all secondary interests, energy saving, CO reduction or the commitment to renewable energy equally important, you sometimes get into an imbalance. In answer to the question of what is most important to us now, my choice would be the climate, the CO2 emissions. You can still make a breakdown in the possibilities you have to avoid becoming dependent on a certain form of energy from abroad. Whether that's Russia or Kazakhstan, I don't care. If you set a lot of goals and if you try to achieve all those goals, it's hard. If you don't bet on one goal, I don't think you're gonna make a single goal. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u66	We know coherence between goals in all kinds of areas in the economy. This cabinet has objectives in terms of reduction of burdens, employment and childcare. Those too are connected and yet we do not say: we only do one of those things. The same applies to this transition. Either you think it's a problem that we could become dependent on Putin, or you don't think it's a problem and say: we're just going to focus on climate change. I ask this question for the following reason. If we make clear agreements in Europe and ensure that all businesses across Europe are confronted with the national objective they need to meet, then we will also ensure that there is a level playing field and that it does not have a negative impact on the economy. Is the VVD in favour of ensuring that we also target a renewable energy target per country, so that all entrepreneurs across the European Union are faced with a reasonable objective that will not be much heavier in one country than in the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u67	No. I'm having trouble with that anyway. It's all gonna have to be funded. Then you have to look at how much money you have and what consideration you make in the distribution of it. The amount of money is limited, because it is a budget. You can put that whole grant in one place because you think that target is so important. Then it is essential to say: we invest primarily in CO, because that is what it is all about; we can also see how we can develop renewable energy. I think it is important that we look at innovation and new techniques. It may well be that, if you put a little more effort into innovation for the future, you will achieve that 16% target later, but it will be cheaper. Maybe you'll go up much faster, because that innovation will work out better. I see much more of a three-track policy in that, with one main objective, namely CO reduction. There are three objectives, which we all consider important, but I think CO is most important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u68	The CDA is also enthusiastic about the innovation in thorium. Now we see in the letter from the General Court that it finds that the 2016 draft budget does not make clear what expenditures the Minister of Energy Innovation budgeted by EZ. I was wrestling with that in the preparation of this debate. I was wondering whether the VVD, Mr Bosman, felt that thorium should also be seen as an energy innovation. To what extent is it supported from the different pots that apply to them? Is that the VVD all clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u69	The question is what thorium is covered by. Is it innovation, is it renewable energy? What development do you support and where does it come from? For me, that is still a very difficult question. I dare say it is renewable energy, but it is not. You're gonna get into conflict all the time. Are you going to spend money on something that isn't renewable energy, which actually doesn't have potential for 20 to 30 years? And that while you have to look at how you're going to spend that money, at a time when you have targets of 14% and 16%! That's the trade-off you have to make. I find that very difficult. Which category should thorium enter? Maybe we should meet in that whole structure that's made of thorium.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u70	Very briefly, Mrs. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What makes it even more difficult is the fact that the General Court says that the Minister does not specifically indicate how it is within the SDE+ scheme, which finances part of those innovations, in terms of euros and production, nor how and when these measures are going to contribute to achieving the objectives. I'm working with the VVD to see how you can do that in the long term. How can the VVD judge that correctly, when the Court of Auditors says: it is not good to judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u72	It's tricky. I'll admit it immediately. You need to look closely at what you're spending the money on, and you need to figure out where you're going with this. If you have a lot of different goals and you want to innovate, then you spread the innovation across a lot of different goals. This was also the subject of the discussion I had with various institutes of knowledge. Innovation is becoming increasingly difficult by shredding money for innovation across more and more knowledge institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u73	In my opinion, the people who are enthusiastic about thorium should look at how many billions have already been invested in nuclear fusion. Nuclear fusion is also such a promising technique that in 20 or 30 years' time might yield something. My question, however, is about the one goal that the VVD loves so much. The judge delivered a judgment which served the VVD at her beck and call. This is about one very clear target for 2020, which is 25% less CO emissions. The knowledge institutes indicate that current policies will not achieve this goal. A motion has been passed in the Chamber asking for a scoop on top of it. What does the VVD think about executing this judge's verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u74	I think there's still an appeal against that judgment. So I'm just gonna wait and see. I think it is important that we have an energy agreement. It takes steps that are very positive. The steps that are being taken are also very large. There's going to be a lot of renewable energy. We are committed to energy saving and air quality is greatly improving. All these cases are being deployed. That is why I am sticking to the energy agreement. I believe that this is essential. In 2016 let's take an integral look at what the energy agreement has brought us. We have been on the table for this agreement with 40 civil society organisations and environmental organisations. They considered this an important subject. They have said that this is what we are going to do in the next few years. So let us deal with this reliably and carefully. This must certainly be done by the public authorities, precisely because of their social support and precisely because the environmental movement was at the table. Let us look carefully at how we are going to achieve these goals. So I'm very reluctant about this. Of course, achieving the goals for the future is important. However, we have also made a number of agreements and we want to stick to them. That is precisely in the interests of reliability and of the goals to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u75	I specifically did not ask about the energy agreement. I'm a lawyer, so I've looked into what's legally binding. The agreements we have made in Europe are those. They are about 14% lower emissions by 2020 according to the way Europe calculates. There is also the judge's verdict. There's no suspensive effect on appeal. Mr Bosman knows that, too. I therefore ask him once again how the VVD intends to implement this judge's ruling. That's not negotiable. How else does the VVD intend to ensure that we reach the hard agreements we made in Europe when we were in our right mind? So I am referring to the agreement on 14% reduction in emissions by 2020 according to Europe's calculation method.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u76	I understand the cabinet is looking for different solutions. I think that's very sensible. I also believe that it is wise to look at these solutions in their context, precisely because I believe that the energy agreement is essential. The solutions should, as far as possible, be in line with that energy agreement. That's why I suggest we look at those options first. Let us be sensible about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u77	I hear that the VVD does not really have an answer to the question of how to do this in concrete terms. Nor does the VVD have any proposals to amend the current budget so that we can follow the ruling of the judge and meet the objectives we have set ourselves in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u78	We're all in a careful process. Different interests play a role in this. Of course, we take responsibility, just as the Cabinet does. However, I find it too easy to say now: we'll just turn a few buttons and then we'll be fine. We have said this too many times in the past. Then you run the chance of turning a button too fast, then you let two months think: we shouldn't have done that. I don't think that's wise. Now let's take the time to carefully examine the options. Let us look at the impact these options have on, for example, society and employment. What contribution do they actually make to reducing CO emissions? We can say very loudly that this goal is important, but let us look at what has happened in Germany. That is where the CO reduction has not gone so fast, despite the 400 billion invested in it. That's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u79	Mr Bosman continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u80	Yes. Where were we? This shows once again that stimulating innovation can not only create jobs, but can also be good for the environment. There is a wide range of tools to support credit extension to business. In recent years, several measures and action plans have been added. I ask the Minister if he can streamline that totally. I also ask him whether these arrangements also apply to the Caribbean Netherlands. Or are there other arrangements for that? Entrepreneurs not only innovate, but also provide many tourists. Over 350,000 people work every day with a smile to contribute to our growing economy. Tourists from distant areas such as Australia and China are increasingly finding their way to the Netherlands. You will understand: the meadows, the Delta Works in beautiful Zeeland, Amsterdam and not the 200-year-old First and Second Chambers. This brings jobs and prosperity to the Netherlands. The Netherlands must make use of this. I call the Delta Works in beautiful Zeeland because I come from there myself. Middelburg is a beautiful city with many tourists. The fact that it is sometimes under pressure from the Lange Jan does not mean that we have to stand directly at the brake of tourism. It is a global trend that there are more and more tourists worldwide. Let us be glad that these tourists want to come to the Netherlands as well. Tourism provides jobs and stimulates our economy, but also ensures that facilities in shrinking areas can continue to exist. Tourism is ideally suited for market-public cooperation. The Dutch Tourism and Congress Office (NBTC) promotes the Netherlands worldwide. A few years ago, we gave this agency less money, and the warning followed that this would reduce tourism. We see completely the opposite. The NBTC has started to innovate. More and more tourists come to the Netherlands through a smart approach and collaboration with entrepreneurs. We also see that the NBTC comes up with targeted projects to drive incoming tourism from specific regions. At the moment, this project focus is on the Far East and the NBTC is working on a true Asia offensive. The VVD is convinced that with a targeted promotional approach, a good business case and a focus on the right regions, we can bring more tourists to the Netherlands and therefore make more money. Is the Minister prepared to invest, subject to co-financing and a clear end date, in a targeted project such as the Asia offensive of the NBTC? The word innovation has been mentioned several times in my text. I'm not done talking about it. In this minister's innovation policy, the VVD notes a number of good developments. Smart industry is also part of this innovation: connecting metadata to production and planning processes in an increasingly smart way. The Netherlands is one of the forerunners in this area and must remain so. It is right that the government does not have free money to promote smart industry, hence the matching condition exists. It creates and stimulates cooperation. We all know that, for example, the ERDF grant (European Regional Development Fund) can be a challenge, combining money from Europe, the Empire and private resources. This is not self-evident. Timing and availability of money are conditions. Partly because of this, only two of the ten intended field labs have been realized in the Netherlands. The objective of achieving ten field labs in 2016 is not a non-binding objective as far as the VVD is concerned. However, the outcome of the efforts made by the Minister to achieve this objective, ERDF, MIT (Mkb Innovation Scheme Top Sectors), TKI (Top Consortium Knowledge and Innovation) and Horizon 2020, is uncertain. There's gotta be another way. The VVD therefore wants to include a specific item for the smart industry in the 2016 budget. That's a money item that only becomes available through matching. My party has tabled an amendment to make EUR 15 million available once for smart industry. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this amendment and how he intends to further encourage smart industry in the Netherlands. It is precisely now that we must ensure that high-quality projects have access to the financial contribution of the Empire and do not dwindle. The Minister has seriously started the StartupNL VVD initiative. The Wbso (Law for Research and Development) is an important tool for start-ups to hire and innovate R&D staff. It is also easy to apply for. The VVD is pleased that 50 million will be available from 2017 to invest in tax measures for start-ups. Why doesn't the Minister start this in 2016, like the adjustment of the usual wage scheme? Why doesn't he just start today? There has been considerable savings in the institutions for applied research. Those cuts will be made in 2016. In the institutions it cracks and squeaks, but the cuts are generally well absorbed. The institutes have managed to find and match private and public funds within the new frameworks for customer-oriented research. What's next? The VVD finds it after a reduction of 25% time for an evaluation of applied research in the Netherlands. Where are we now? Have the principles been implemented? What does the future of applied research look like? Is the Minister prepared to report this to the Chamber, including long-term finances, attention to international competitiveness and attention to competition with private market providers? Applied research is important for the competitiveness of the Netherlands. Yesterday, the Minister sent an overview of the major facilities in the Netherlands to the Chamber, such as the wind tunnel of the NLR (Dutch Air and Space Centre) and the water tank of MARIN (Maritime Research Institute Netherlands). The State contribution is merely a conservation subsidy. How can the TO2 institutions reinvest in the facilities without reservation or resources? The Minister's commitment is indispensable. What possibilities does he see for the depreciation of capital-intensive installations? How do TO2 institutions apply for large installations and how does the Minister assess these applications? The VVD finds not only a problem with the capital costs of the institutions, but also with the increase in knowledge. Although the institutions know how to get their operational plan and work on market terms, it is becoming increasingly difficult to invest in innovative knowledge for which there is currently no concrete market demand. We therefore ask for more room for institutions to make their own choices within the budget. I would like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u81	Mr Bosman put the finger on the sore spot with regard to the TO2 institutes. They are rather difficult, whereas in our view they are indispensable for many sectors. That is what I hear Mr Bosman say. I have tabled a very specific amendment for MARIN. MARIN has said, disrespectfully, that water tank. That's what Mr Bosman said. It's really under pressure right now. It itself already finances a huge amount, but conservation is at risk. Is Mr Bosman prepared to look with us for additional resources for MARIN, as we have also stated in the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u82	I have now put the question to you to see how that all happened, and what the future vision and the future perspective are. I find it difficult to say already: I am going with the Christian Union. So I do not, but I do find it interesting to see how we can all give the minister the place they need, first and foremost, the TO2 institutions. In addition, I think it is important to look at what has happened to these cuts, how they have happened and how things are going to go on. In addition, I have asked for a number of broadening possibilities for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u83	We just had the Minister's vision. I think we received a letter yesterday about the TO2 institutes. For example, he indicated that TO2 institutions should also raise more private money. But let me give you an example: at MARIN, 90% of this is already the case. The government finances for less than 10%. What is the lower limit for the VVD? And what if such an important institution threatens to fall down, while it makes such a substantial contribution to the earning model of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u84	I am very reluctant to respond to this particular question. I do not know the Christian Union amendment, but I would certainly like to take a look at it. I think it's important to see how things happened. I would also like to be careful to go into one institution, to work here with one institution and to say: how are we going to do that? I was more on the general line and asked: how do we deal with the knowledge institutes? And it might be even more important to look at how we're going to get that whole story in the right direction. I'd like to hear how the Minister feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u85	I hope I can convince Mr Bosman that it is two for twelve and that we must act now, but I will be happy to update him on that in the run-up to Thursday, if that is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u86	I'm looking at the clock, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u87	I've been doing that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u88	I will try to turn this into my final question to Mr Bosman. I have another question about the start-ups. Mr Bosman is right to make a point of this. The VVD made a good point of that, so did the Minister. So it's going well, but the cabinet is now proposing to merge the RDA and the Wbso arrangements and remove the ceiling. The downside is that more money will go to large companies and less to smaller companies. Why does the VVD do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u89	Then I have to dig deep, because I don't see the relationship right away that by removing the ceiling automatically more money goes to the larger companies than to the smaller ones. May I ask Mr Verhoeven to clarify this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u90	This can be done very briefly: by removing the ceiling, you can apply for much larger amounts at once. That is what larger companies will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u91	Well, I don't see it right away. We are now going to anticipate something that may come. I'm not ready for that yet. I do not know whether Mr Verhoeven has any examples of how it all happens and how all those companies remove these larger sums. I don't know. If Mr Verhoeven knows and has these examples, I am happy to hear them, but if there are no examples, then we must be very careful to say that the scheme is being changed and things are going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u92	Then I'll ask another question at the same point. Start-ups are very important, says Mr Bosman of the VVD. At the moment, however, the cabinet comes up with all kinds of laws that drive away innovative Internet companies. I am thinking, for example, of the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2002 and the Telecommunications Data Conservation Act. These are all laws that many companies say: that is why I am not going to settle in the Netherlands. So the VVD says on the one hand that it wants to stimulate start-ups, but on the other hand it all supports laws that make a lot of internet companies say they're going to settle elsewhere. Here again I ask a question: does the VVD see that risk and is it going to do something about it, if it is so for start-ups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u93	Here again the balance plays again. On the one hand, what do we want in society, how do we see our society and what responsibilities do we carry? On the other hand, we are talking about security and responsibility for the future. I call cybercrime and cybersecurity. All these responsibilities lie with the government as well as with companies. So I am very reluctant to say right away that we should not implement those laws so that the start-ups can live better. On the other hand, I do believe that we should give the start-ups room and that we should take a serious look at that. I have also indicated that we certainly need to look very closely at improving all kinds of legislation in the field of ICT with a view to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u94	Mr Jan Vos of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman, you have just said that you have the TO2 institutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u96	Through me, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u97	I said thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u98	Yes, but you also said, Mr Bosman, you...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u99	Mr Bosman, through the chairman, you just said that you love TO2 institutions. MARIN has just been mentioned, but I am particularly concerned about ECN. We're here every week until midnight discussing energy. We are going through a huge transformation into renewable energy in the Netherlands. You said something about that, too. Then we can't actually sell it that out of the 240 people who work there, 80 will be on the streets because of the cuts we're making? What's your reaction to that? I'll ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u100	The answer is the same as the one I just gave at the point of MARIN. We need to look at the broad picture, the responsibilities we have and how it has fallen. In addition, we must be careful not to look at each institute. Then we need to see how we can move these institutions forward in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u101	That's: a little of this and a little of that. It is easy to say that you are worried, but you do not give butter to the fish when it comes to it. I know what this is about, because we had a debate last week in which another group took such a shaky stance. That group quickly turned away when it really came to choosing. So I am now aware of your position, Mr Bosman, as I say through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u102	Mr Vos is going a bit crazy, but we know that by now. That's okay. Full of energy, we are also going through a short turn. The point is that we look carefully at all matters. That is how Mr Vos knows the VVD and he can also address me, no matter what he does. That's what I'm here for. However, we must look at the various options and options in full responsibility. I have just asked you to look at what is the result of the austerity. Did it really come out what we expected? If we all have to conclude that this is not the case, then we have to look at what the solutions must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u103	Mrs Van Veldhoven wants to interrupt, but first I will consult with the clerk next to me. I give the floor to Mrs Van Veldhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u104	I would like to continue with this point, which Mr Vos quite rightly refers to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u105	I would point out, however, that if you are interrupting with two people from the same group, I must automatically give more space to others, who are the only interrupters. Then what we have agreed together on the monitoring of time is also compromised. So you're gonna have to narrow down a little bit, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u106	I'll keep an eye on that and keep it brief. Mr Bosman says: we want to think about it. Then we must ensure that ECN also has time to think about this and that it does not end up in a rushed reorganisation. Is Mr Bosman prepared to look into the possibility of creating room for ECN for the coming year, so that we can make that reflection with each other? I think this is one of the things that Mr Vos is actually asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u107	I understand that, but I'd like to wait for the Minister's answer first. Then I'm definitely gonna think about it. We'll probably come back on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u108	Mr Bosman continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u109	Last year my colleagues Van Veen and Vos tabled an amendment on the MIT regime. This arrangement seems to be going to the brink of one's own success. The interest in SMEs is massive, according to the transfer. The scheme is highly innovative. The VVD sees private partnerships between innovative companies as the key to a successful economy. The MIT promotes this. How does the Minister assess the success of this MIT? How does the Minister enhance, facilitate and ensure this success in the coming years? How does the Minister deal with the province of Noord-Holland, which does not contribute to this MIT scheme? What does this mean for the companies in North Holland? Finally, I have an important point about the Market and Government Act. Over the last few months, we have been flooded with signals from entrepreneurs. They indicate that they are being pushed out of the market by public authorities. We see the most crazy examples. Municipal garden services maintain private gardens, municipal marinas rent moorings. There are also municipalities that rent spaces and restaurants in sports canteens, sports halls, swimming pools and the like. According to the VVD, these are all examples of a government that attracts far too big pants and entrepreneurs eat the cheese from the bread. Yesterday we received a letter from the Minister stating that the evaluation of this law is still pending. My VVD colleague Erik Ziengs has now taken up the glove together with Mr Verhoeven of D66. They will be presenting an own-initiative paper this week aimed at halting the market distortion by public authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u110	I would like to comment on the boyfriend scheme, as it was mentioned in the media, namely the money for start-ups and perhaps wider for SMEs. Knowing that small SMEs in particular need equity capital, I was wondering if the VVD is willing to invest part of the €50 million in SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u111	I'm gonna miss this. What exactly is the arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u112	It concerns the boyfriend scheme that was announced in the Tax Plan and in the accompanying letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u113	I am very intrigued where the name "boyfriendship" comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u114	VNO-NCW referred to the scheme as such. It's actually the successor to the auntagath scheme. In particular, the VVD designates the scheme as a scheme for start-ups. I also mention the scheme for start-ups, but I also see a great opportunity for SMEs. SMEs in particular need equity to strengthen and grow. This also creates a great deal of employment. Is the VVD prepared to use part of the 50 million euros for SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u115	I'm very reluctant about that, because this is too fast for me. I don't know the relationship between the arrangements. I don't know what kind of tax consequences this has either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u116	Perhaps you could come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u117	I think that's an excellent plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u118	I now give the floor to Mrs Mulder, as soon as she has managed to tear herself apart from the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u119	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the budget for economic affairs. We are talking about both economics and energy. I should like to say straight away that the CDA has been somewhat surprised by the fact that the government in the budget still has doubts as to whether cooperation with the regions should be extended in 2016. Is the Minister prepared to say that there will be a strong commitment to greater cooperation with the regions in 2016? I am very enthusiastic about the approach taken by the Minister towards improved cooperation with the border regions. The CDA took this together with the Christian Union. I think that this could be achieved by agreeing on more concrete objectives with the region and by sending results to one another. A concrete example of problems a region faces when governments, companies and knowledge institutions roll up their sleeves together to drive innovation, is the beautiful Chemelot in beautiful Limburg. There, cooperation suddenly leads to a higher VAT burden than in the situation without cooperation. According to the Minister, where are the problems preventing the much-needed joint public-private commitment to innovation? Ten years ago, the then Finance Minister, Mr Zalm, indicated that VAT should not stand in the way of the choice of public investment. We would like to receive a response from the Minister to this important bottleneck. Fast internet is an important prerequisite for a strong economy. The CDA sees a strong society that is busy getting the internet done quickly. However, the CDA also sees that it is very slow due to uncertainties, high costs and complex rules. The CDA Group is concerned about this, because it is the ambition of this cabinet that the Netherlands remains one of the most competitive knowledge-based economies in the world. Fast internet can contribute to this. It is a huge driver for the entire Dutch economy to remain competitive with the rest of the world. Thus much is expected in education, care, ICT and the agricultural sector. Fast internet is needed for business, digital education developments, remote care, rural living and it offers an opportunity to work at home. Although even European aircraft have 4G in 2017, it seems quite impossible to provide fast internet for campsites in the Netherlands. This while, for example, ANWB research shows that 80% of campers consider it essential that the holiday destination has fast internet access. For example, at present around 330,000 households and businesses are not yet able to have an Internet connection with a speed of at least 30 mpbs. In addition, the figures of the PO Council show that 59% of primary schools in the Netherlands have no future-proof, affordable and fast internet. As a result, almost 900,000 pupils are at risk of being deprived of modern education. In addition, the government expects residents and companies to do all their business via the digital channel in 2017. Then the question to this minister is: how will the cabinet achieve this together with society? What else is the Minister going to do next to the fast internet platform to ensure that initiatives from society succeed and that in 2017 everyone can indeed do all things with the government via fast internet? I'd like a response from the Minister. I speak in my contribution about the strong society. The major driving force behind this strong society is, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are still difficult to obtain credit for. Our initiative paper on late payments will be discussed separately in the Lower House. The emergence of alternatives, such as credit unions, is very important. It is also important for SMEs to be made clear where to go for all these alternative funding providers. In addition to the problems of financing, the entrepreneurs who are often the CDA are always referring to the other important problem that I have already raised with my colleague Bosman, namely the hiring of staff and, above all, the second year of pay-as-you-go in the event of illness. Several entrepreneurs have said that this weighs so heavily that they are no longer hiring people. There's a big ibo report, but what is the cabinet going to do? When can we finally expect an initiative from the government? I come back to the financing of SMEs. In the media, we read that there will be a rebranded auntagath scheme, namely the boyfriend scheme. As is well known, the CDA has been advocating a tax-friendly granting of foreign capital to family and friends for years. The cabinet states, as we read in the accompanying letter to the tax plan 2016, that it is 50 million euros. The CDA welcomes the fact that start-ups could make use of this, but wonders whether it is precisely the companies that need this type of funding most. After years of racketeering and abandonment in the crisis, many SMEs' own funds have fallen sharply. They need this strengthening of own funds in the form of subordinated capital. They could use that. Is the Minister prepared to use the boyfriend scheme for that purpose? Will the Minister also use this scheme to maintain employment among SMEs? That brings me to the renewed Wbso RDA scheme. How does the Minister intend to make the scheme accessible to smaller SMEs? The CDA is worried about that. How can the Minister continue to review the forest of subsidy schemes and make them accessible to smaller businesses, so that one does not need an advisor first? Then I have a question about the "think small first" principle. We tabled a motion on this last year. The Minister said he'd get to work on that. How's that going? I'm getting to the point of energy. The Minister is aware of the CDA's commitment to a decent workable scheme for energy cooperatives: improving support for wind farms by allowing residents to benefit and participate in decisions and not spend the money from the SDE abroad. The Court states that it is not clear how many euros and how much production there are for achieving the sustainable objectives. I would like a response from the Minister on this point from the Court of Auditors. Also the VVD was not entirely clear, I understood from an interruption. The CDA is also critical of the additional investments in energy innovation. That just came out in the interruption with the VVD group. What expenditure is budgeted and what is the link between the list of instruments? The Court of Auditors says that this is not sufficiently clear. At least they are lower, because the budget for research is cut. In particular, ECN is threatened by the reduction of the energy innovation budget and the direct financing of ECN. Does the Minister, knowingly, want to jeopardise the social knowledge function of ECN, as well as the high-quality employment in the North Holland Head of State? Can't the Minister of the 8 billion euros he wants to spend on the SDE+ in 2016 do a few million to ECN for research? It is precisely in the long term that we need to invest in research and innovation. In this area, the Netherlands can really mean something. The balance between research and the placing of windmills at sea is likely to be somewhat lost. As VVD colleague Bosman said, it is ultimately a question of having the best possible means of achieving sustainable energy supply in the future and of earning something from it in the Netherlands. How is it going, for example, with the Tijdcentrale Brouwersdam? When will this project start, what will the Minister do and could the Juncker money mean something for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u120	I see an interruption by Mr Jan Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u121	Then would you mind stopping the counter, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u122	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u123	I didn't see that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u124	But I do now, as you can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u125	Mrs Mulder is talking about energy corporations. She means that a lot of Dutch people want to work together to generate more renewable energy together. You can also see that, because in the Netherlands the number of solar panels doubles every year. A lot of people want to place a windmill together, for example; you have tabled a motion on this today, which we supported. I am sorry to hear you say that this is not being done enough. Just now, we have significantly extended the scheme for this purpose, which is called a little complicated, the scheme for the generation of decentralised energy. As a result, people can easily build solar parks in the Netherlands. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u126	It depends a bit on what you call the scheme, but the postcode rose scheme was not really the success of the Netherlands. The applications were very slow. The scheme has therefore not been adapted for nothing. That was very much needed, and that has taken far too long as far as the CDA is concerned. We will first look at how that goes and keep a close eye on it. I think that, together with the PvdA Group, when I see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u127	We have also joined forces to defend the citizens' interest in generating energy together and to extend the postcode rose regime. We've been asking for that over and over again. The Minister has also done it very generously. So I think it is very good that we are doing this together. I am glad that Mrs Mulder shares that with me and she communicates so cheerfully about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u128	I will continue with my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u129	Then the counter starts running again. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u130	Yeah, I saw it. The CDA would like to see the funds from the old MEP scheme and the 77 million from the renewable energy budget reserve, which the Minister is actually using as putty for his budget, be given a clear sustainable use, helping Dutch entrepreneurs and residents to move forward. When answering the actual questions, the Minister does not really understand how much of the 400 million he withdraws from the renewable energy budget reserve still has a destination after 2020 and for which means to seek a new destination. I would like to receive an answer to this question. Finally, I will deal with the extraction of gas. The CDA is and remains clearly in the cabinet: really bring the gas extraction back structuralally to up to 30 billion cubic tons of gas. That is why we supported a motion on this point last week. We look forward to the letter of amendment. In Groningen there is a very large reinforcement of the homes and businesses, which is part of the national coordinator's multiannual programme, the minister writes in his letter. In his letter, however, he did not address the question as to how sustainable housing would be included. Can the Secretary of State at all agree to this? Because from Groningen I hear that the approach to both strengthening and energy-efficient housing is stalling. Will the Minister look at where it is stalling and quickly discuss with the parties, to see which directions to resolve are there? I would like to receive a commitment on this point. We also hear that insufficient progress is being made with the companies in the area to identify the risks and what should be done about them. Already in many debates I have asked for risk analyses, not only of the Groningen field, but certainly also of the smaller gas fields. The Minister has agreed to this. Which brings me to fracking at Saaksum. The information that emerges from the risk analysis as reported by the Minister himself in his letter of 12 October provides insight into the degree of compression or compaction of the gas, the feeding rock package and the size of the fracture surface of fractures that cut the gas field. This could mean, as the CDA thinks, that one should be very cautious with fracking. How can a minister say that the breaks in the area and the use of fracking in connection with that do not create a chance of earthquakes? What evidence does he have before that? It's not a stand-alone activity, is it? I would ask the Minister to ask the NAM, if there is no complete clarity on the questions I have just asked, to push for a delay in fracking as long as the risk analysis for this field is not there in this way. Is the Minister prepared to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u131	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the budget for Economic Affairs today. I will talk in particular about the energy part. My colleague, Mei Li Vos, will look more closely at the economic side, but I will also mention some economic issues. The Minister knows that the Labour Party and I have a passion for green energy, green enterprise and the transition to renewable energy. We have had several exchanges of views on this subject. If I look at the budget now and I see what we have done over the past three years, then I think there is an incredible amount going on in the field of energy. I would like to pay an extremely generous compliment to this Minister, who has worked very hard for that. There have been a lot of laws passed the Chamber, and I must say that not only the Labour Party and the VVD were responsible for that, but also a number of other parties have been very generous in supporting that policy because that sustainability agenda is widely shared by everyone. In my role as a representative of the people, I think it is serious that the cabinet is not on track to achieve the objectives we have set together. It is to be commended that the Minister has immediately said that he is taking additional measures. These additional measures are a step in the right direction. In particular, the measures that enable people themselves to generate more renewable energy, for example with solar panels and solar boilers, as the Minister has communicated, are measures that can be done a great deal. I have just spoken to my colleague from the CDA about this. There is a lot to be gained from this, also because Dutch people will lose much less to their energy bill. However, there is still no energy savings. The Dutch housing stock is largely based on heat from natural gas. That natural gas comes from Groningen and every time we talk about it it is also a kind of bottleneck. Can we make sure those houses stay warm? Let's isolate these houses and let's not do that one step at a time, as we have done so far, but let's do it on a large scale. From the experiments we've done, we know that in a renovation of a house, you've recovered the costs within ten years. You don't actually have to pay your total energy bill anymore, because you have realized a so-called zero-demeter house. So if we invest large-scale in the Netherlands in the innovation of our existing housing stock and in the isolation of those homes, and in the meantime, if we make them all look completely neat again so that people can live there with great pleasure, that means that within ten years we won't need all that natural gas and that all those people have earned their investment back. So we have created a much better situation in the Netherlands than we have so far, and I am not talking about all the jobs in the construction that we will create with it. I think that we have really had very good experience of this, but that these experiences should now be rolled out and scaled up. We have done this successfully with wind at sea; there we have seen a cost drop of 40% and we now see that 15,000 jobs are created there, where we originally thought we would create a total of 15,000 jobs. I think we can do the same with our existing housing stock. I think that is a challenge, and I accept that challenge with the Minister. More broadly worded: how does he intend to achieve the goal of 100 petajoule savings? A little scarier: let's all put our hands on it to realize this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u132	A fantastic goal of the PvdA that GroenLinks would also like to see realised, because in the National Energy Exploratory we see that the energy saving rate is unfortunately falling from 2013. What does the PvdA intend to do in concrete terms about measures, incentives and making money available? Are there any proposals in the counter-budget of GroenLinks, which the PvdA says would really help to raise that energy saving rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u133	I have already said that we can scale up the project Acceleration as far as I am concerned. This can, of course, be done through housing corporations, through tenants or tenant associations or through residential housing. I have previously drawn attention to the fact that Minister Blok has a fantastic fund, but it still has so many rules that it may seem rather bureaucratic to citizens every now and then and the interest rate is still higher than the interest you have to pay if you borrow money from the bank in connection with your mortgage. So there are still a lot of improvements possible. I think that there is also room for this on the balance sheets of some companies in the Netherlands, with the support in the back of the government, for example in the form of a guarantee. We have earmarked EUR 1 billion for the shipping subsidies guarantee scheme in 2013 and it has not yet been used at all. Perhaps we need to make arrangements to give that guarantee to energy companies, production and supply companies or network companies, so you can still disagree about this type of project in order to finance this type of project on a large scale. Those are resources that I think are useful to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u134	That appeals to me. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists agree that we should, for example, maintain the Environmental Policy Act more strictly for the heavy industry? This means, for example, that any investment that can be recovered within five years must be taken by the heavy industry. This is the first point I have raised, I believe, four years ago. There is now a list of recommended measures. According to GroenLinks, this too could make an enormous extra pace. This will generate money for the companies concerned, because they consume less energy, it helps to achieve the CO targets and it also saves the local environment. Does the PvdA group find this direction of thought workable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u135	In general, and in this case in particular, I believe that the law is there to be enforced. That seems to me to be the primary task of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u136	I would like to thank Mr Vos for his ambition with regard to energy saving. D66 also has that ambition. It would be very nice if, in addition to the instruments we have for the social sector, we could also give the people with a merchant house the opportunity to take the step. Perhaps we should say to each other that we are making a contribution to this. For example, we could draw this contribution from making more efficient use of the SDE+ scheme. We are now investing a lot of money in biomass, but we could also use that money more efficiently, which would save us money. We can give that money back to the citizens who invest in energy saving. In my contribution, I will make a proposal to this effect. Can Mr Vos respond to this in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u137	I think we can do something about the SDE+ scheme. A solar park could simply participate in the various rounds of the SDE+ scheme. In 2015, it was EUR 3.5 billion, but for next year it will be much more. I find it interesting that, if the cost of renewable energy is reduced, it should be highlighted and perhaps even added. I want to think about these things. I do not want to think about getting money from the SDE for purposes other than renewable energy. I know the way of thinking about biomass. The PvdA and Mrs Van Velthoven disagree on the energy agreement. If nearly 50 civil society organisations, businesses and politicians conclude an agreement, it is not possible to say unilaterally in the Chamber after two years: we have thought again, let us break the energy agreement. I believe that wherever I go, we should give this request rest to businesses, civil society organisations and citizens who are committed to the transition. I believe that this was precisely the central objective of the energy agreement. So I don't think it's wise for us to break that open right now. However, I think it is wise, as the Minister has suggested, to ask Mr Nijpels, through the Committee on Security and Cooperation, to work together with all the parties concerned, on measures to generate more renewable energy. If the measures envisaged by Mrs Van Veldhoven can count on support, I am the first to take a serious look at them, but I am not going to force them to do so in the Chamber. I do not like to say that Minister Kamp is the only one who believes in the energy agreement, because the entire PvdA group in the House of Representatives also fully supports the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u138	I think we are all very reassured by these words by Mr Vos, but I am particularly pleased with the previous part of his speech. He stated that he would indeed look at making more efficient use of the SDE+ scheme if there were support for it. That will also be the question I will put to the Minister. I am glad that when I put my questions to the Minister I find Mr Vos on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u139	Mr Vos continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u140	Mr President, before you press the button which will allow my time to run again, I would like to respond to Mrs Van Veldhoven's last comment. If the consequence of her reasoning is that the objective of renewable energy is at stake, then she does not think it is your side, because in that case next year I will be told in the debate that we have not achieved our objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u141	That's right. I can guarantee that the amount of renewable energy in the proposal remains exactly the same. In fact, this also applies to the amount of energy we generate from biomass. Only we do it smarter. I will come back to that in my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u142	That was just a point I thought: let us wait for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u143	The energy agreement is working very well. I'm happy about that. I was visiting a number of companies in the offshore industry, which suggested that I consider implementing the energy agreement in other areas as well. I asked what areas we could do that in. Then we came to the mobility sector. That's a nice subject, too. In the Netherlands, every year, not only the number of users of solar panels doubles, but also the number of people with an electric car. Fifty percent more every year. Of course, that's fantastic news. It means less fine dust, for those who love speed it means moving faster and it means that you lose much less at the pump if you have to recharge your car, so I say to the people who pay particular attention to the cost of transport. So the electric car is actually a win-win-win situation. In the Netherlands we can do a lot with that, because the Netherlands is a relatively small country and the range of action of a car does not have to be as large as in some other countries. If we can realise together that by 2050 we will generate 100% renewable energy, that is the purpose of the cabinet and of the two coalition parties....................................................................................................................................... Can't we just phase out the use of fossil fuels? Fossil fuels are still being used, but the President of the Netherlands Bank warned recently that they pose a lot of risks to our pension funds and investors and the PBL warned that they would not bring the climate targets closer because they contribute so much to CO2 pollution. We need to phase out the use of fossil fuels and we need to innovate. We need to ensure that sectors that contribute to growth and jobs meet, agree with the Cabinet and conclude a mobility agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u144	Mr Vos wants to eliminate all fossil fuels and he wants a sustainable world. Of course he wants to, but does he set an example himself? For example, does he drive an electric car himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u145	I think this is a little skinny. We're all working on each other here for a living. I think it's a little skinny to make this a personal thingy. Mrs Klever has listened to Radio 1 today and thinks that I am not driving an electric car myself in a nice political way here. No, I don't have an electric car yet. However, I hope that we will not make the debate personal. I'll take a look at the chairman, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u146	I'll make up my own mind about what I do and what I don't allow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u147	I note that Mr Vos wants us all to take sustainable measures as long as someone else pays the bill; if he has to pay himself, he does not want to. The only way he's gonna go for sustainable is if he can put the bill on someone else's account. I've got numbers from the National Energy Exploratory here. It was presented on Friday, so the numbers are fresh. An average family will pay €410 more for its energy in 2020 than it is now. Of this, €140 is an alleged increase in electricity and gas prices and €270 the increase that is going to be paid at least. This is still excluding network costs for the hobbies of Mr.Jan Vos. Doesn't he think that's a little bit of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u148	Mrs Klever and I regularly exchange views on the costs of the transition to renewable energy. I would remind her that it costs EUR 1 billion a year, at the moment, to increase our dikes because of the rise in water levels. I also point out to her that renewable energy, once you have it, does not cost any more. The variable loads of such a windmill are particularly low; the windmill is still going crazy. That is particularly effective. The same applies to solar panels. Once you've put it on your roof, they keep producing and you don't have to invest in it anymore. The biotope subsidy Mrs Van Veldhoven mentioned, you do not have to give to a solar panel, because the sun shines by itself. For a very long time we can take the measure of the cost to each other on the left and right, but it remains primarily an ideological choice. Mrs Klever opts for a society that relies on fossil energy; the PvdA opts for a society that revolves around renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u149	Due to the hobby of Mr Vos, an average household is saddled with an extra bill of €410, while he does not even want to pay the bill for his own hobby. I find that really disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u150	It is now, especially if you are an entrepreneur, I say to my colleagues from the VVD and D66, cheaper to drive an electric car than in a fossil car. As a member of parliament, I'm just driving a car that's still 100% fossil powered. I'm sure I'll change that in the future if I get the chance. At the moment I just have to pay for all that fuel every time at the pump, Mrs Klever. Mr. Chairman. So I challenge the cabinet. The energy agreement is a cautious success. It deserves to be reflected in a mobility agreement. How do we transform the Netherlands into a country where there is 100% sustainable transport for everyone? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Then I'm coming up...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u151	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u152	No, Mrs. Van Veldhoven, I'd like to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u153	I have a question about the transport part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u154	We can keep interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u155	Yes, Mr President, but this is a budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u156	I know, but you're sitting here with two people from one party double-interrupting. That's enough for me. I give the floor to Mr Vos. I said at the beginning that I would divide it a little evenly. You've been very generous. Mr Vos is going on now... you may want to talk through me, but I am leading the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u157	I have an order proposal, namely that you clarify how many interruptions you allow. I won't interfere with Mrs. Vos, because that's not my wallet. Its contribution covers half the speaking time of the Labour Party. Only Mr Verhoeven will speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u158	Yes, but you don't care how I run the meeting for me, do you? There are other presidents who choose to cut this with scissors. I like the debate, and I told you that at the beginning. That is fine with me, but let us all be reasonable. At some point the cake is gone and that was the case now. So I suggest that Mr. Vos continue. If you can come up with a majority to send me away, you have to, but I'm about to lead it now, ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u159	My order proposal is by no means to replace the chairman. My proposal is that you give a little clarity on how often you may interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u160	I don't feel like making it a kindergarten class and saying, "Everyone gets to go twice."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u161	I won't interrupt Mrs. Mei Li Vos. It has half the speaking time of the Labour Party. I have one question on an important proposal made by Mr Vos on a transport agreement. I would like to ask him a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u162	I'm not gonna make another fight out of it. Ask me that question. But you must understand that it is unreasonable as it is now in danger of being divided. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u163	I will take this into account in the spirit of the debate, Mr President, and thank you very much. I would ask Mr Vos whether he thinks that transport, which is also part of the energy agreement, is not enough and that is why he is proposing a separate transport agreement. It was one of the pillars of the energy agreement, wasn't it? So why do we have a separate transport agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u164	I have looked at this together with my colleague Duco Hoogland, with whom Mrs Van Veldhoven regularly exchanges views on this subject. You and I know that the energy agreement agreed that we want 200,000 cars to be electric by 2020. It will be a great challenge to achieve this objective, as will other objectives of the Energy Agreement. I think it is a very good start, but unlike renewable energy, we do not have long-term agreements for mobility. I think it is very nice that we said for renewable energy that the dot is on the horizon in 2050. That's where we're working. We also talk about this regularly: 2020, 2025, 2030 and 2050. We do not really have that in terms of mobility. I think it is important to look at this together, not only in this Chamber, but also in the sector and civil society, to see whether we can make better agreements on this issue. During the negotiations on the Energy Agreement, mobility was discussed. That was not the best solution, if I may say it in my own words. I think the result is suboptimal. That is all the more reason to say now: let us try again to do it and set the long-term objective together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u165	That's very interesting. Last year, when the budget of I and M was discussed, an amendment was adopted to move towards zero emission bus transport in cities. I very much share Mr Vos's ambition to make transport much wider fossil free. Would Mr Vos therefore like to see concrete intermediate objectives between now and 2050? Then we all have to be around. Is that what he has in mind with the transport agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u166	I do not want the first time I have carefully launched such a proposal, to kill it by setting the points and drawing the lines. I think the target is broadly clear. In 25 years we must be able to achieve 100% electric transport. There are already 40,000 electric cars in the Netherlands at the moment. By 2020, there should be 200,000. So a nice start has been made. Let us see how we can further achieve this with each other. The Committee on Foreign Trade and Development has been working in Rwanda. In Rwanda, an entrepreneur, Thijs Boer, sells bags of chips. He helps farmers grow potatoes, but he also helps a Rotterdam entrepreneur who makes biodegradable plastic. Why is this so interesting now? That's because the Rwandan government has said it no longer wants plastic and plastic bags in that country. The Rwandan government deserves to be followed. In Uganda, too, they look a little jealously at the way in which they have arranged it in Rwanda. It's a very clean, beautiful country. Moreover, they are very innovative. 'Cause what's happening? This Dutch entrepreneur is working with a Rwandan partner on biodegradable plastic from Rotterdam, which gives us more jobs here. He rolls that out neatly in Rwanda and he has a competitive advantage because the government has arranged it so innovatively. We can take an example of this. I am glad that this means that we have more jobs in Rotterdam, where we can use it very hard. That is an example of what politics can do. In Eindhoven, Twente and Delft, the innovative companies are also dependent on a social objective. They make money with an invention that makes the world better. These social entrepreneurs make money in the first place, but they also create an incredible amount of jobs. We can see that in Germany. Germany is the world leader in green tech. The market for green businesses grows there by about 10% a year. Knowing that our economy grows by about 2% a year, it is understandable that you create a lot more jobs with innovation than you keep going in the middle. Is the Minister prepared to take up the gauntlet and catch up with Germany or even beat it in the field of green growth? Can he achieve that result within this cabinet period? And if not, when can that be? My group chairman has already spoken about green companies in the context of his proposal for a Dutch innovation bank. The Minister sent a letter on that innovation bank to the Chamber. In so doing, he indicates that he is considering developing the NIA into an investment agency with his own legal entity. For this, he wants to use the existing public and private resources. The Labour Party sees this as a step in the right direction. Within the solution chosen by the Minister, we would also like to draw attention to seed capital, start-ups and so-called unicorns. Unicorns are companies that create a lot of jobs within ten years, because within zero to ten years they achieve a market capitalization of EUR 1 billion. That's a lot of jobs for people who can work at these companies. Entrepreneurs in Eindhoven complained that if they really want to be a unicorn, they have to go to America for the money. In the Netherlands, no innovation funds are available to grow these companies: not commercial, but not public. The Minister has recently been to Israel. There is a very tight government direction to create such companies. I myself spoke to entrepreneurs in New York who are from Eindhoven. They are wondering why we are allowing our jobs to fade away in this way, while at the same time giving so much tax advantage to all kinds of multinationals that have an empty mailbox in the Netherlands. That's a crooked affair. I ask the Minister to take action on this and to give greater attention to the unicorns, the unicorns, in the policy of the investment bank that my group has asked for. That is the end of my first-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u167	Mr. Chairman. One of the highlights of this weekend was that the chairman of the VVD group, certainly not a fan of a large government, thinks it is an expensive duty to protect the welfare state. I put that praise on the welfare state in my pocket because that's what we're talking about. We are talking about prosperity and all the means and all the ways to preserve the prosperity we have in the Netherlands. Our economy is doing just fine. I'm better. Compliments for our entrepreneurs, consumers and this minister for biting through and trusting after a few tough years. We are also very happy that we have increased some places according to the World Economic Forum. We are a stable country. We're high on the lucky lists, we shouldn't forget that. We're well trained. We are an innovative country. We have high labour productivity. We almost all have the Internet. You can haggle at anything, but if you count your blessings every day like my Indian grandmother, and also, like the Swedish physician and statistician Hans Rosling, take the statistics, we should be happy for a short time. A brief moment, because then we move on to the order of the day and our core business: submit motions to improve the state of things. We didn't get that high ground from the World Economic Forum for nothing. We don't just keep them. The world is constantly changing: from the enormous growth of the number ofzzp'ers to what we all do with ICT and how we make work and private life go together. No one could have thought 20 years ago that we were gonna live like this. More importantly, the world outside the Netherlands is changing even faster and affects us. Some people in this room think that you can keep the boundaries closed for everything that happens outside of us, but the reality is that this is not possible. This means that we have to adapt constantly to maintain that high level of prosperity. That's what we're talking about right now. It's about things like a good ICT infrastructure. It is also about things like new ways of supporting our entrepreneurs. Speaking of our entrepreneurs, we have a lot of small entrepreneurs in the Netherlands: SMEs, entrepreneurs with up to ten employees and a lot ofzzp'ers. The ibo research onzzp'ers showed that we have over a millionzzp'ers. We've got plenty of start-ups. The IBO study also showed thatzzp'ers are not so much triggered by deductions and money. It is an intrinsic motivation to work as a zzp'er. It really suits the modern Dutchman and the modern working of today. Well, we do have a deduction forzzp'er, the starter discount. According to the ibo research, that is not necessary at all to stimulate people to become a zzp'er. That's an interesting conclusion. Since the Cabinet does little about the ibo investigation, I would like to present a plan to the Chamber and the Minister and ask the Minister what he thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u168	You want to interrupt on a previous point, Mr Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u169	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u170	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u171	I felt a little attracted, though, because we do want the borders closed for certain people. I would like to ask a question through you, President, Mrs Vos, especially after the warning from the chairman of the VVD Group, who already says that the influx of people poses an acute threat not only to the Dutch welfare state and our social services, but to our entire economy. This also applies to care costs and the housing market. A PvdA man should be interested in that, too. This is quite apart from the fact that our Minister for Economic Affairs has already said that this flow is not good for our economy. Then who is to pay for the economic damage even predicted by the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u172	That's the big question. That's why I'm such a huge fan of that Swede's statistician, Hans Rosling. Streams of Syrians don't come here. For example, he shows very nicely that there are 20 million Syrians, of whom only a fraction are coming to the Netherlands. Of the figures presented this weekend, it is only a question of whether they are correct. We are now dealing with a number of thousands of people, who we can still handle very well. I also recommend to Mr Graus the column in today's Volkskrant. We can still do this with our welfare state. The point is also the proposals that are then put forward, namely to make them work. That's very wise. It's people who can all do something. If you let people do nothing, then everyone's right to say that that's gonna cost money. Let refugees work and give them a temporary permit, for example, seems to us to be a very good idea to meet the changes that are coming towards us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u173	As I said earlier, I do not want to kill the debate, but we are dealing with the economic affairs budget. Yes, there are interfaces, but let us keep it on the main lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u174	Certainly, Mr President, but this is very important. The Minister for Economic Affairs, who is now in trade union K, spoke about this the day before yesterday. I'm gonna ask him about that later. The 600,000 unemployed that Mrs Vos is referring to, are you not going to get rid of by bringing in thousands of unemployed or tens of thousands of unemployed, perhaps even hundreds of thousands of unemployed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u175	No, but it's a question of whether that happens. Last Monday, the Minister for Social Affairs was working with the social partners to see how we can encourage some of these people to work here. They are often highly educated people and we have 100,000 vacancies in ICT. Those are certainly things that can come together well. It is indeed very important that this does not lead to displacement in our labour market. We therefore call on our Minister for Social Affairs to ensure that the minimum wage is properly maintained. I think we agree with the PVV on that. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. I was talking about my plan for azzp agenda. The starter deduction, as stated in the ibo research, is actually not necessary to stimulate people to become a startingzzp'er. However, manyzzp'ers who want to continue to grow are going to run into the huge barriers that you have with the first employee and want to become self-employed with staff. The wedge is big between the costs you have to pay and what that employee eventually gets. That's a problem. There are a lot of administrative rules. One idea I would like to present to this Minister is to use the start-up deduction, which now involves a structural amount of 133 million, for self-employed people who want to grow. Use that money as a facility for the first employee during the first three years, because that's how long the starter discount runs. Then you have a discount on the cost of the first employee during the first three years. In this way, you stimulate the growth of self-employed people who want to grow. What does the Minister think of that direction of thought? Another subject. The Minister launched the retail agenda a few months ago. We fully agree with him: there is a lot of employment, but there are also many problems with our current shopkeepers. They must respond to digitalisation and change consumer behaviour. The Minister has launched a number of plans, but are they just plans for more consultation structures, for networks, or is there a budget for creative ideas, for example? There are many creative ideas. An idea we had at the PvdA the other day concerns the pizza mopeds. Many of them stand still during the day; in the evening they are used, but not during the day. Maybe they can be used during the day for e.g. elderly people who want to have messages delivered at home. Then there should be some kind of crossover between entrepreneurs and care institutions or district nurses. Our question is whether this retail agenda now contains more than just consultation. Is there an experimental pot in there, for example? That seems very useful to us. There are plenty of ideas among entrepreneurs, but you often need a launching customer or a little push in the back. Is that what's going on? One issue we missed in the retail agenda was the package market. More and more people buy over the web. This leads to a lot of employment for parcel delivery companies, but we all know from the survey on parcel delivery companies that it does not lead to good employment. That's a matter for several departments. The Minister of Social Affairs has to deal with bogus self-employment, but it is also a matter for the Secretary of State for Finance with his new law. Whatever it leads to are unequal relations between the eight parcel mail companies. Is the Minister prepared to have relations reviewed? Is he prepared to ask the ordinary part of the ACM to investigate whether there is abuse of the dominant position, for example by the largest parcel delivery company? This seems to us to be a useful task for the ACM and, in our opinion, it also fits the retail agenda. Then there's the ICT infrastructure. A top-level sector policy has been in place for years and the ICT infrastructure has been widely spoken. As a government, you have to create conditions. You should not interfere too much with what entrepreneurs do, but above all create conditions. I already discussed this part last year with my fellow Members from D66: there is a lack of structural funding in ICT infrastructure, in particular that relating to SURF. This is used by many scientific institutes and by companies, among others. We want an amendment to ensure that EZ will now make a structural contribution to the 8 million needed for SURF per year. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to that amendment. I'm coming to the Chamber of Commerce. It's been thoroughly reorganised. However, there is still some work to be done on the way that Chamber of Commerce works. I recently installed the Chamber of Commerce app on my cell phone. I don't like buying the in-app, but that whole app consists of in-app purchases. If I want to know something about a company in the Trade Register, I have to pay money for it. The weird thing is that that Trade Register has already been paid for. Entrepreneurs pay €50 for inclusion in that register. Our former colleague from GroenLinks Arjan El Fassed has already called for attention to this. It's kind of crazy that the Trade Register doesn't have open data. Experiences in the countries around us show that the opening of a trade register and the choice of open dates lead to more innovations. It is also very logical to choose. I understand that the Chamber of Commerce has calculated the payment for the Trade Register in the earning model. A lot has gotten past the Chamber of Commerce. This cannot be arranged on a set basis. However, does the Minister agree with us when we say that the data in the Trade Register should be accessible without payment in the foreseeable future? We believe that this should be done within three years. My final point is also about the Chamber of Commerce. I was just talking about a proposal that will make it easier forzzp'ers to become entrepreneurs and also to employ people. Onl states that the Chamber of Commerce should become the support centre for new legislation. There's a lot of legislation coming towards entrepreneurs. We make all these laws here. However, it is impossible for an entrepreneur to keep track of all this. There are complaints on this point. The Chamber of Commerce would not help entrepreneurs enough. Which rules apply to which entrepreneurs? How should entrepreneurs respond to new regulations? Especially for SMEs, where there is often little own resources, compliance with rules is quite difficult. It benefits from low-threshold and affordable tailor-made advice. According to the Minister, is there a task for the Chamber of Commerce? Is the developments going that way? Does the Minister actually agree with ONL?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u176	I shall return to an earlier point from Mrs Mei Li Vos' speech. I hear the Labour Party compliments the Minister on the fact that the Netherlands has increased on a number of lists of economic progress. That's good. However, Mrs Vos also knows that the Netherlands is at the bottom of a number of lists. Mrs Mei Li Vos' colleague, Mr Vos, has often addressed the Minister on the issue of lending to SMEs. When he did, the Netherlands was on the list just above Greece. But now our country is at the bottom of that list. So Greece has passed us. According to Mrs Vos, does the Minister actually listen to the proposals made by the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u177	To be honest, I'm assuming that's what I'm assuming. I also see the Minister often turning his ears. But I agree with Mr Öztürk when he says that lending to SMEs can be improved. That's what we switched during an AO from a few weeks ago. This remains a problem and we must continue to appeal to the banks for their responsibility in this area. Banks must also contribute to the financing of SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u178	If the Minister had listened to the Labour Party, the Netherlands would not have fallen on that list, but we would still have been above Greece, or we would have risen even further. Does Mrs Vos not think that we should commit the Minister to a specific task or objective by tabling a motion on this matter? We must avoid having to find out again next year that a lot of appropriations have been rejected and that entrepreneurs are therefore going to drop out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u179	I am curious about the motion that Mr Öztürk is going to table on this issue. I hope that he will finally have that killer move that the Minister can carry out and which will make the banks behave. So I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u180	I would like to ask Mrs Vos the same question that I asked the VVD spokesperson earlier. It's about merging the Wbso and the RDA. In her contribution, Mrs Vos has rightly paid a lot of attention to smaller entrepreneurs, innovative businesses andzzp'ers. So if we remove that ceiling, we can ask for much larger amounts per company. In that case, there will be a tendency for larger companies to apply for larger amounts. As a result, more money will go to larger companies and less to smaller companies. The Labour Party will probably have heard this from all kinds of parties in the field. What's she gonna do to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u181	I'm also very hesitant about that happening. There is enough money already going to large companies in the Netherlands. So I'm curious. If Mr Verhoeven has a proposal that he wants to avoid, I will certainly look seriously at that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u182	D66 does indeed have a proposal for this. That's what we'll submit to the treatment of the Tax Plan. I'll explain later. However, I am pleased to hear this from Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u183	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u184	Mr. Chairman. Economic Affairs is about economic growth that generates prosperity and jobs. The Netherlands has more than 600,000 unemployed and 400,000 people are on assistance. The large group of them concerns the group of non-Western immigrants. With the open border policy of this cabinet and the current mass immigration, the call for assistance will only increase in the coming years. Of every two buses with immigrants entering the Netherlands, immigrants will receive assistance from at least one bus. The Minister said on TV last week that he also thinks mass immigration is bad for our economy. Unfortunately, it remained with this observation and the Minister did not come up with any solutions. From what part of the budget do we have to deduce that he does consider mass immigration to be a serious problem for our economy? What measures are in the budget to solve this problem? The solution of the PVV is known: close the borders. Australia does it, Hungary does it, let us do it as the Netherlands does it. "Yes, we can," I'd say. Mass immigration does not contribute to economic growth. On the basis of samples, the German Labour Minister found that 90% of immigrants are not directly able to work or receive training. It expects that the number of immigrants in the assistance will increase by over 1 million in the coming years. Hans-Werner Sinn, a major economic advisor of the German government, calls for a reduction in the minimum wage and believes that older people need to work longer to pay for the cost of immigration. The reason for this is that immigrants are generally so low-educated that they are not productive enough to earn back the current minimum wage for their employer. So much for the myth of the highly educated refugee coming to strengthen our economy. The current flow of immigrants will be simply behind the geraniums with welfare benefits, and this is at odds with the economic growth, prosperity and jobs we want. What measures does this Minister of Economic Affairs take to prevent this from happening? We would like to hear the plans because until now it remains very quiet in the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u185	I see that Mrs Van Veldhoven wants to place another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u186	Mrs. Klever is worried that people with benefits will come home. How much money does the PVV plan to invest in educating people so that they can participate fully in the Dutch economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u187	The PVV is indeed concerned about the 600,000 unemployed and the tens of thousands of immigrants brought in by this cabinet, with the support of almost the entire Chamber. We note that there are no jobs for these people. To create jobs for those people and to get jobs for the 600,000 unemployed we have, we need tax cuts so that companies can become competitive again. We need tax cuts for citizens, so that citizens have more purchasing power and buy things, so that businesses can grow again. That's what we do. We do not want a cabinet job plan, but simply low taxes so that we can stimulate economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u188	With a reduction in charges, however, the person sitting at home does not suddenly have a better education. Mrs Klever made an argument that these people were not properly trained and therefore did not come to work. What is the PVV going to do to ensure that, once these jobs are created, through the reduction of the burden that is supported by Chambers, those people get training with which they can work? How much is the PVV willing to invest in the training of those people, so that they can also get to work and not have to stay at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u189	The PVV is absolutely unwilling to invest in the training of immigrants who are now entering our country. I have just said that on the basis of samples 90% of these immigrants are not considered able to work. The PVV wants to close the borders and D66 wants to open up the borders to those unopportunities, so that we get tens of thousands more unemployed alongside the 600,000 unemployed. That's D66's policy. We think this is very unwise, because it only leads to an economic downturn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u190	You will continue your speech. I've turned the sound down a little bit. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u191	While it remains silent when it comes to how we reconcile economic growth with the flow of low-skilled immigrants, the Minister spends a great deal of time on the energy issue. Sustainable energy is clearly more important for this cabinet and this Chamber than a sustainable society. The PVV's objections to the current energy policy are well known. The policy costs a lot of money, is at the expense of employment and does not work. It is also very one-sidedly passed on to the lowest incomes. According to the CBS, Dutch people pay €24 billion in environmental taxes and taxes every year. That is over €1,400 per Dutch person per year, including babies and elderly people. This makes the Netherlands one of the leading players in Europe. The solution is not more subsidies and even more taxes, but better policies. Scrap those expensive windmills at sea and scrap those nasty sustainable energy targets! The key to progress is innovation that leads to economically viable solutions. Current policies support economically unsustainable solutions, which then put a brake on real innovation, as they lead to increases in burdens that affect the business environment. Green solutions are no good if you cannot bridge the gap between green and economics and that bridge is called "innovation." As far as PVV is concerned, it is best to stimulate this innovation by reducing taxes. Innovation cannot be driven from above. After all, they can no longer spend money on innovation that entrepreneurs have lost to the Tax Administration. So scrap these tax innovation schemes and give tax relief to all companies in return. The Netherlands is number five on the list of most competitive economies, according to the World Economic Forum. That's four places below the number one. That raises the question of what the number one does better than the Netherlands. That number one is Switzerland. Switzerland is not a member of the EU and not a member of the euro area. While the Netherlands is hampered in its progress by bureaucrats in Brussels, Switzerland can act quickly to keep its economy competitive. Switzerland has signed a free trade agreement with China. The Netherlands can only patiently wait for the moment when the European Commission is pleased to pursue economic growth. While the Pacific countries are concluding a free trade agreement covering 40% of world trade, the Netherlands is dependent on Brussels, which is not even able to persuade Greece to guard its own borders. Europe is a liability. If we want to become the number one on the list of competitive economies, as far as the PVV is concerned, then we must follow the example of Switzerland: from the EU and from the euro area. And I recommend Mr Bosman of the VVD to review the Nexit report of Capital Economics. I still have a little bit of text, but I can see someone's trying to make an interruption. Shall I finish, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u192	You do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u193	In conclusion, this minister spends too much time on the sustainability shobby of this Chamber, but does not pay enough attention to the major challenges facing our economy: high unemployment, mass immigration and strengthening the economy. Stop focusing on sustainability and ensure a good business environment with low taxes, fewer EU and well-educated people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u194	Mr. Jan Vos wanted to interrupt. I had the impression that his question was about the general thrust, so I waited until the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u195	Only in one of the most prosperous countries in the world with such a beautiful democratic tradition as that of the Netherlands will you have the opportunity to take so long as full theories that are so pertinently untrue. I could have been lying under my couch laughing if it wasn't so sad. Because the fact that we are not number one but number five of the small 200 countries in the world doesn't mean that we should just leave the European Union? Or would Mrs Klever prefer to move to Congo, South Africa, Vietnam or perhaps North Korea? With her style she would probably do very well there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u196	Firstly, Mr Vos notes that everything I say is untrue. I invite him to tell me exactly what's false, because there's nothing untrue about my story. If you have a little ambition and you want to become the number one in the world, I'm happy to find the VVD by my side, because it also wants to go up on that ranking of the World Economic Forum, you have to see what that number one has that we don't have. Switzerland is that number one. Switzerland has an economy similar in size to that of the Netherlands. So I don't understand why we couldn't have that ambition. I understand that Mr Vos of the PvdA does not have that ambition. All he wants is economic downturn. He only brings in masses of uneducated immigrants who are then in the assistance behind the geraniums. However, we have the ambition to achieve economic growth, to become the best in the world and to create jobs for those 600,000 people who are now unemployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u197	We all want to move forward in life. The pursuit of happiness is something universal. That is all the more true for people who are in a very miserable situation. It is, of course, untrue that the people who come here are economic happiness seekers. If you think that this is the case, I suggest that you pay a work visit to Syria to see what the situation is like on the ground. I'd like to watch through Facebook and Twitter how you're talking to the people you think are economic immigrants. I find it really too bizarre for words to say that you want to treat people who are refugees who flee war and misery to get here in this way. It is also bizarre that, because Switzerland is a few places higher on a ranking list, you propose that the Netherlands should therefore leave the European Union and that all those countries in the world where there is such a miserable situation, including Syria, perhaps that is a good place to go and not belong to the European Union, should simply be completely ignored. That's not an example of "though a causal relationship but no correlation," but an example of "I'm not thinking at all and I'm just shouting." Don't you agree, Mrs. Klever? I'll ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u198	If all these immigrants were to flee war, they would have stayed in Turkey, and then they would not have crossed six, seven or eight safe countries to the Netherlands, where they would have a benefit and a house waiting for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u199	I saw Mr Dijkgraaf reporting for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u200	Thank you, Mrs... uh, Mr President. Mr Elias is clearly a "Mr" the chairman. Does Mrs Klever know the article in Het Financieele Dagblad entitled "Swiss suffers from strong francs"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u201	I do not know if I know that particular article, but I understand what Mr Dijkgraaf is referring to: Switzerland is now suffering from the strong franc. That's right. That's right. However, I also note that since the Netherlands joined the euro area, economic growth in Switzerland has been higher every year than the economic growth of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u202	Does Mrs Klever also recognise that this year's exports have shrunk because of the strong franc, that unemployment has increased and that the problems have increased in Switzerland, although fortunately they are getting back out of it? My core question is actually the following. Mrs Klever linked it to the opposition "euro vs. franc." But I think we should focus on that list. Switzerland is number one in terms of innovation policy. That doesn't have much to do with that coin. It means that the Swiss have even better policies than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u203	Of course, it's never just one cause that makes someone number one. It's always a combination of factors. Luckily, we had Capital Economics find out. That desk picked it all out nicely. Of course Switzerland also has problems. I'm not denying that. However, I also note that unemployment in Switzerland is 3.5%. That's a lot lower than here. The prosperity in Switzerland is much higher. One in ten Swiss families is a millionaire, for example. The Swiss economy has always grown harder than ours. Of course Switzerland has problems, but that country is doing better than the Netherlands in all respects. That is because we are in the EU. That's a liability. They can simply conclude a free trade agreement with China and trade freely. However, we have the European Union. The cabinet wants sustainability. And what does the European Union do? It imposes import duties on solar panels from China. That's all counterproductive. I'd say read that report from Capital Economics sometime. Then Mr Dijkgraaf will see that there are not even so strange things in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u204	It was indeed a nice initiative of the PVV to bring forward that report. In any case, I am pleased that Mrs Klever is now extending it to a whole range of things. It seemed in her interruption of just now and in her own speech first that it would only come from a currency. My point is that it has much more to do with sensible policies and that we can learn from Switzerland in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u205	I am glad to find the SGP on my side as regards the idea that we can learn from Switzerland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u206	I had the impression that this was the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u207	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u208	Mr. Chairman. Last year I asked the Minister of Economic Affairs to investigate the economic damage caused by the banishment of Black Piet. The Minister had a dream about that the same night. He dreamed I was Black Piet. Luckily, that didn't turn into a nightmare, but he did tell us here. What is the economic value of Black Piet, was my question at the time. I never got an answer to that question while SMEs are struggling with Black Piet. This year I also have a question: how much do all the refugees actually cost our country? After all, the Minister himself warned against this. He said in a programme that the flow of refugees is not good for our economy. The chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats even says that this poses an acute threat to the Dutch welfare state. I have just said that during an interruption. What damage does this do to our economy? How many millions of dollars should be taken out of this minister's department, for example, over the next few years? This is at the expense of nation and country. What action will the Minister take to contribute to all the pillars of our economy? What does he do for economic growth and an excellent locational environment for companies in order to strengthen our economy? Let me mention my own economically disadvantaged and population shrinkage South Limburg. I was born and raised there and still live there with great pleasure. What does this government in general and the minister's ministry in particular have to offer as an example the supporting sectors of the Limburg economy? My colleague from the CDA just mentioned Chemelot. But there are also other things, such as life sciences, care, new energy, logistics and Maastricht Aachen Airport. These are all matters of national importance. Limburg is a province of national importance and South Limburg is a specific part of it. What's the Minister gonna do for that? In addition, I would like to mention that I once asked for an entrepreneurial bank, a savings bank, a national savings bank that collects money from citizens at a reasonable rate and then provides loans to SMEs. I mentioned that years ago. Now ONL, led by Mr Biesheuvel, who I have never seen here for nine years as SME spokesperson, suddenly takes that away from me, and suddenly it gets all the papers. I can hitch a ride on that. But what happens to the national savings bank, the entrepreneurial bank? Is there going to be a phosphate bank, now that China no longer supplies phosphates, a primary need for life, and Morocco's mines are beginning to become exhausted? Minister, please also agree with your colleague from Economic Affairs, the Secretary of State. The PVV wants the cabinet to focus on improving the business environment and on the competitiveness of Dutch companies and our mainports. Speaking of mainports, Schiphol and KLM are among the largest private national employers. KLM is in heavy weather because of the story with Air France. I'm not going to elaborate on that right now. Would the Minister like to examine whether some of the proceeds from the sale of ABN AMRO could possibly be used to take a 20% share in Air France/KLM? The French have the same. I have been told that this will be doubled to 40% in the future as a reward. What does the Minister care? I'd like to have a reaction to this. SMEs often go behind the grid in the procurement of public projects. Apart from the fact that public institutions often create unfair competition through public money, there is an uneven playing field with foreign entrepreneurs. The price should not only be taken into account in tenders, but also in the case of primordial Dutch quality and solidity and the award to Dutch companies, Dutch SMEs. Foreign cheap is often expensive; let's face it. Furthermore, the procedures for SMEs are sometimes too expensive to compete for a contract. How is the Minister going to simplify and shorten the reference requirement and procedures, according to a once adopted Graus motion, by the way? What's the Minister gonna do? I once warned the minister that the franchisees are in trouble. Then the minister didn't just put me down like some kind of renegade. It wouldn't be right, but months later it turned out to be. Even the PvdA picked this up a month after I asked in the Christmas church. We asked for an action, a plan of action and if necessary legislation in this area. The government only came up with a code of conduct. However, the main franchisees refuse to sign. This proves my prediction that a voluntary code of conduct is not a solution. That is why I am considering the rejected PVV-motions in part Nos. 125 and 126 (31311), as the PVV calls on the government to establish a legal framework and strengthen the position of franchisees at the pre-contractual stage. Of course, we continue to argue for a reduction in excise duty and a level playing field with Belgium and Germany and a current border impact test as more and more entrepreneurs at the border go bankrupt and the state loses tax revenue as Dutch people increasingly send a message across the border. What is the situation with regard to the investigation we are asking for into unfair competition from abroad? This was even brought to the Ministry of Economic Affairs by the circus world through me once. What about my proposal for a mobile post office for older and disabled people in shrinking areas and other areas where the post offices have disappeared? The Minister would make me another commitment on this. Thank you and a blessed evening further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u209	Mr. Chairman. As mentioned by other parties, the Netherlands is getting better. The economy is growing, investment is increasing. Still, people often can't find a job. There are over 600,000 unemployed. There are also many entrepreneurs who cannot get funding for their plans. I would like to admit that, and that is a compliment to the Minister and the coalition, it is worth noting that the Netherlands has increased in terms of competitiveness to place five on the list of the World Economic Forum. However, we have fallen from 11 to 16 in terms of innovation capacity. We are still leaving far too much growth behind due to a lack of investment in innovation, especially in the field of ICT. D66 wants the Netherlands to be Europe's digital leader by 2030, and I will make a number of proposals for this during this budget debate today. In order to attract innovative companies as a country, it is important that you have a good locational climate. However, the Netherlands is threatening to expel start-ups and internet companies. As I said to Mr Bosman, this cabinet of VVD and PvdA is coming up with a series of far-reaching legislative proposals. The Intelligence and Security Services Act, the Wiv, Computer Crime III, the Law on Preservation and also the Gaming Act. All these laws are destroying more than this minister's start-up policy can make up for. D66 therefore calls on the Minister of Economic Affairs to protect the digital locational environment of the Netherlands and not to let the Ministry of Security and Justice or the Ministry of the Interior play away, who are primarily one-sided in the search for false security. I'd like a response. The Netherlands can become Europe's digital laboratory, with testing locations for drones and self-driving cars, with digital test gardens and small-scale workshops, the so-called field labs and fablabs. Mr Bosman also talked about those field labs. We want places across the country where you can use advanced production techniques, where you can try out new industrial solutions and test prototypes. The Cabinet letter on the Smart Industry Agenda gives the impression that it will all work out well with these test sites, but in practice its financing appears to be a lot more complicated, while countries around us are investing heavily in them. Is the Minister prepared to mobilise additional resources for locations where smart industrial solutions can be tested? The VVD asked about it as well. I am very interested in the Minister's answer. There must also be high-quality workshops where entrepreneurs can turn their ideas into a concrete product, the so-called fablabs. These can now be found mainly in the Randstad. D66 has tabled an amendment for ten additional fablabs in the region. I say this particularly to my colleague from the CDA. I'd like a response from the Minister. My colleague from the PvdA has already spoken about SURF, the organisation that provides the network infrastructure for knowledge and research institutions. It is necessary that the Netherlands continue to carry out top research and that is why we are submitting the PvdA's amendment. I'll get to the start-ups. This Minister, and I am happy to admit this, has worked hard in recent years for the Dutch start-up climate. He has involved many D66 proposals in his plans, such as the modernisation of laws. That is a good step, although we think it should be even more ambitious. Is the Minister prepared to launch, in addition to the plan he has now launched, a cabinet-wide modernisation operation, as happened with Choices in Map? I'd like a response. I am very pleased that the Minister has accepted D66's suggestion for a tax regime for start-ups. I am very curious about the precise interpretation of that. Maybe the Minister can say a little more about that. D66 is also very positive about the Minister's commitment to the Dutch Venture Initiative. The Minister is in consultation with the pension funds. They are prepared to take over part of the investments in this fund. I have a number of questions for the Minister. Is it true that in the Dutch Venture Initiative 2, the so-called DVI 2, will mainly invest larger private equity funds? Why won't that fund invest in smaller funds? Is it true that the funds that receive money from the DVI can also invest in start-ups outside the Netherlands? And is the Minister willing to sell part of the DVI 1 investment to pension funds? I'd like a response. I apologize for the technical questions, but it just needs a minute. D66 would like to improve access for start-ups. The Minister is now coming with a start-up toolkit. Does this mean a faster route for start-ups, so that applications can be dealt with within a few weeks? I'd like a response. I have already asked colleagues in the event of interruption, but of course I would like to ask the cabinet: why does the cabinet want to help start-ups so badly and does it want to remove the ceiling in the Wbso?I think this was 14 million? As a result, a larger proportion of the available money will end up in large companies. I'm not gonna think of that myself. According to the Wbso evaluation which has already been carried out, I say in particular to Mr Bosman................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In small businesses this is a much lower percentage. Does the Minister see this problem? Does he recognise the risk that the removal of the ceiling will lead to more money for large companies? My colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, will make a proposal for a ceiling of 20 million when dealing with the Tax Plan. In any case, this way, we will not allow it to flow completely to large companies. This brings me to a plan that the Minister has not yet adopted, with the emphasis on "yet," namely the start-up-e.g. The minister doesn't want a new legal form because he fears abuse. I therefore propose not to create a new legal form but to include in the register the possibility that a company is eligible for the start-up-e.g. In order to prevent abuse, this designation can be requested with the S&D declaration as far as I am concerned. With the Minister's start-up toolkit this should be possible within two weeks. Is the Minister prepared to start with this "start-up-e.g. light"? Then there is the subsidy forest; my colleagues from VVD, PvdA and CDA have already mentioned this. In addition to the need for good signposts, for example through the Financing Desk, we also want to stop in the forest. There are many overlapping, unclear and overpriced schemes that no longer meet the needs of entrepreneurs. Is the Minister prepared to identify which arrangements could be deleted or merged? Then digital innovation in primary education, at school. Why not take the step that my colleague Van Meenen has suggested in the past, namely to make it just a standard part of the curriculum that we teach our children digital skills and programming? There are already private initiatives in this area, of which CoderDojo and CodePact are the best known, but in education it is still a gap. Is the Minister talking to his colleague from Education about this? And is he prepared, as Minister for Economic Affairs and in the interests of the digital economy, to really draw this important point? I have one very fundamental point: encryption, i.e. encrypting communication. It is essential for the freedom, security and prosperity of people. Good encryption allows entrepreneurs to secure business secrets, secure communication or online banking, and allows journalists, lawyers or activists to protect themselves and their resources. Many governments tend to weaken that encryption and build backdoors into software, despite all the warnings about it. They think: as a government, we can tap all kinds of information and communication. But the same information can of course also be seen by criminals, because it is not only the government that can go through the backdoors. This could significantly weaken people's confidence in digital services. D66 therefore wants the Netherlands not to weaken encryption software, but to strengthen and stimulate it. That is why we would like to invest in good open source encryption software, such as OpenSSL or LibreSSL. Is the Minister prepared to support the amendment we have tabled to that effect? Then I have two more points. They have already been mentioned by my colleagues, but I would still like to highlight them. First of all, I call the Market and Government Act. My colleague Mr Ziengs and I will present together an own-initiative paper to ensure that the public authorities do not cause problems for businesses by themselves showing all kinds of entrepreneurial traits and playing small businesses, in particular by extending the general definition of interest. It's time to put an end to that. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to this idea. Finally, I refer to the Chamber of Commerce. The trade register is simply an open data register in many countries, but it is closed in the Netherlands. What is needed to make the Dutch Trade Register, as in the United Kingdom or Belgium, freely accessible as open dates so that every entrepreneur has access to this public register? At what time could that be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u210	Mr. Chairman. Minister Kamp announced additional measures last week to save the objectives of the energy agreement. My compliments on that. I hope he wants to take more steps on that road, because the energy agreement should, above all, take us further, rather than slowing us down in thinking about how to make the Netherlands faster or smarter cleaner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u211	Mrs Van Veldhoven says "save," but of course she means that the goals must be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u212	You get them, you save them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u213	If you get them, you'll make it. If you're talking about saving, it's like there's a drowning man lying there. That's language I know from the PVV or the SP, parties on the flanks of our Chamber. In the middle, I normally hear a nuanced position, and in the energy agreement you are shooting very far beyond the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u214	Unfortunately, I have to say that, for example, we are only achieving half of the goal of energy saving. Well, then we're gonna have to put up all the sails to "save it." I note that Mr Vos himself has just said that we need a transport agreement because we are not going to save it within the energy agreement. Let's not make this a semantic discussion. In my view, we are convinced that there is still a number of additional things to be done. We have asked for this a number of times in this Chamber. I am very pleased that Minister Kamp is not now saying that he wants to wait for the evaluation but that he is now taking action to ensure that we save those goals. Last week, the National Energy Exploratory 2015 came out, and it showed that the energy agreement still does not score enough on a number of points, according to the Minister in his letter. By 2020, we will get 12% of renewable energy instead of 14% of Europe or 16% of the coalition agreement. By 2020, we will only make half of the energy savings and spend 5 billion on coal without making our economy structurally stronger. Perhaps the worst thing is that our progress after 2020 is getting worse, because the long term hardly plays a role in this energy agreement. Mr Vos referred to this as well. There is talk in the long term of a fossil-free society that is somewhere far away, but as long as there is no concrete plan to do so, that remains, of course, a bit of a mirage. So let us not just look at the additional measures now, but place them in the perspective of a smart long-term policy. Is the Minister prepared to work not only on an evaluation but also on some indicative intermediate steps for 2030 and 2040 for the dot on the horizon in 2016? The cleanest and cheapest energy is, of course, the energy we do not use at all. Energy savings in homes are nothing but profits. You have a lower energy bill, there is less emissions and less gas use and you create more jobs in construction. Nevertheless, there is still a gap between ambition and practice, especially in housing and other buildings and in industry. That's why D66 wants to invest heavily in this energy saving to make real meters. We can do that soon. Firstly, with households and small businesses by investing in isolation. For example, let a contribution from the government end in time, which rewards the people who make quick work of it. That could be an extra incentive to make speed. Secondly, in industry, because there too, the pace is lagging behind. I have two specific proposals on this. Make it possible to carry out a major saving project at once instead of every year 1.5% and bring together the creativity and thinking power of start-ups and SMEs in energy and chemistry on the basis of no cure, no pay, whereby the government reimburses the stakes for a number of hours for promising young entrepreneurs, without risks for large companies but as a concrete opportunity for smart, clean entrepreneurs. Is the Minister prepared to investigate both ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u215	Not so long ago, the reduced VAT rate for this type of construction business was abolished. Doesn't the D66 group find that very unfortunate? Because that was just such an incentive to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u216	The D66 Group has supported that reduced VAT rate in construction for a long time. That was a crisis measure. We can see that, despite the measure of the 6% VAT reduction for construction, it is very much lagging behind in the case of the residential housing. That is why we would like to make real extra meters between now and 2020, where we can reward the people who are fast more than the people who delay it for a while. I'll make a proposal in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u217	I am, of course, very interested in that proposal. I agree that much more could be done in the field of energy saving, but I have to note here that one of the measures that have contributed to it has also been abolished by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u218	I believe that the Tax Plan is still being dealt with. We supported this measure for a long time because we thought it was a good measure to contribute in a time of crisis. We will wait together for the Tax Plan to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u219	That is what we are very curious about, because this was a very effective measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u220	I think we have given our support to this for a long time too. In addition to energy saving, D66 also wants to invest in innovation, because the percentages for 20130 referred to by the NEV are 12%, 14% and even 19% of them have one thing in common: after that, there will be a huge challenge. In the regular EZ budget there was still some money for innovation, but the minister moved it to the top sectors. There is, of course, something to say for fewer counters, but how do we ensure that SMEs also have good access? Why was it not chosen to provide additional support for the applied research of, for example, ECN? ECN is one of the institutions responsible for ensuring that technology and science come to the market. We are concerned about the position of ECN. That is why we have tabled an amendment on this subject. We have made a number of proposals. It is a good practice in this house to cover such proposals as well. The coal-fired power stations receive a subsidy of 3 billion to 4 billion for biomass, but a large part of it is lost in residual heat. That's a shame. The use of biosteam is much more efficient and delivers much more. We will already save EUR 750 million until 2023 if we replace biomass half by biosteam. As far as D66 is concerned, the SDE+ scheme's money goes back to households and companies that want to reduce their energy bills structurally in the short term. It can also be used for a structural reduction in energy storage in the longer term, through additional money for energy innovation. In my view, we can even make a contribution to the ROAD project from the money from the SDE+ scheme, because CCS is also important for the longer term. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this proposal with the partners of the Energy Agreement in the context of continuing reflection? Finally, a few final points. This autumn we will talk about the extraction of gas in Groningen. Why is the Minister assuming 33 billion cuub in 2016, if it is already clear that we will never pump that? The Court of Auditors is structurally critical of the transparency of the SDE+ scheme. When is the Minister going to clearly indicate how he's spending the money? The Minister has appointed an area manager for the windmills in Drenthe, but that only works if the residents have confidence in it. How are the residents involved in this appointment? The minister's paying extra money. Is it true that this is mainly a cash drawer, because there is no extra money coming in at all? We too very much like to see that with the next extra impulse the Brouwersdam will also be better within reach. I am very curious to hear what the Minister can say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u221	Mr. Chairman. We know that the Minister always likes to start his term by indicating how well the Netherlands is doing. He always lists lists. Figures have been passed again today, for example from the World Economic Forum and the CBS, which shows that the signals are green. Let me also begin by saying that we may have to count our blessings first today. We live in an incredibly prosperous country. It is good to realise that in the context in which we speak. There are many things to improve, but we must also sometimes consider the fact that we live in a very beautiful and rich country. I also count the blessings that really is a compliment to the Minister after the letter sent by the Minister on all matters relating to regional employment. I have tabled many motions on this subject with Mrs Mulder and we have asked many times for action. Last week I was pleased with the Minister's letter, because I see that some steps are now being taken which may lead to concrete actions. I refer to the appointment of the Vollebregt/Alberda van Ekenstein committee to give the Square more hands and feet for work, the more pooling of the use of advisors and the tools for wealth and region, so that we can see how we can make better use of the grants, and the Cross-border Economy and Labour Action Team, which will look, among other things, at obstacles in the field of the labour market. However, I challenge the Minister to tell us in his term what we can do at the moment. Some cross-border employment issues, such as the recognition of diplomas and the facilitation of the exchange of vacancies and training, have been known for a long time, as well as the solutions that exist. Can the Minister indicate whether he has short-term ambitions in this area, for example the call for more experimental space in the region, which many border municipalities are asking for? I come to social entrepreneurship. Social enterprises provide social value alongside financial value. Think of the participation of people with disabilities, re-use of materials or sustainability. We still have to wait for the cabinet response to the ESC opinion, so we read this week. If that means that it will be a very positive reaction, I can still live with the delay, but we can already look at a number of things without a very deep analysis. Are there sufficient data on social enterprises, for example? Is the Minister prepared to ask the CPB, the CBS or the SCP to do more research into social enterprises? Can we get an impact assessment? It is also interesting to look at a separate legal form for social enterprises. Britain and the United States have already opted for this. So there are examples. Will the Minister also consider this for the Netherlands, making demands on companies in the area of social impact?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u222	These social enterprises are beautiful. Mrs Schouten gives a number of examples. I can give you another one. Recently Elon Musk was here; the minister spoke to him personally. This guy's building Tesla's, these electric cars. He does that not only because he wants to make money, but also because he believes that he is changing the world. That's beautiful. We therefore support the call for greater attention to be paid to social enterprises, in particular to innovative enterprises. Why does Mrs. Schouten want more data? Why does she want to have tests done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u223	We do not know so much about the impact of these companies. In particular, in the start-up phase, many companies with opportunities for sustainability, for example, find it difficult to achieve sustainability, which brings me to another point that I would like to mention in order to obtain funding. Let me give you an example: Fairphone. This is a good example of a company that is really in an innovative way, but it is very difficult to get funding in the start-up phase because there is not so much known about the impact and earning model of the company, whether it is profitable or so. I believe that greater understanding of the social and financial value of social enterprises helps to facilitate their funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u224	I think it's a very sympathetic thought. I know the United Kingdom already has a Social Value Act. That's something they're walking a bit ahead of. The European Union is also doing a lot in this area. The Netherlands still has a catch-up to make here. I think the suggestion of doing research is very sensible. I would like to see whether Mrs Schouten and I can agree in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u225	That's good. Then I will come to the question of funding. I was just talking about that. Social enterprises often find it rather difficult, especially in the start-up phase, because they find it difficult to show exactly what their earning model is or how quickly they can earn back their investments. Does the Minister intend to review the current financing arrangements, such as the SEED Capital scheme or Qredits, in order to determine whether they are in line with these types of companies and their specific characteristics? I come to innovation policy. It is important that the Dutch economy is future-proof. That requires innovation. I do have my doubts about the current innovation policy. The Rathenau Institute, for example, we received a report there today, saying that more and more innovation money is being spent abroad, while foreign investment is lagging behind in the Netherlands. How does the Minister perceive that signal from the Rathenau Institute? How does the integration of the RDA (research and development allowance) and the Wbso (law promoting research and development work) work for SMEs? A number of Members have already spoken about this. The rate is 16%. That sounds good, but there's a catch, because corporate tax is still due on that. This means that in the end there is only 12% net left over from the 14% or 15% we have today. This is therefore a retrograde step for SMEs. In addition, the ceiling is being removed, as we have already heard. This can result in a substantial redistribution of SMEs to large businesses. Why does the Minister put innovative SMEs at a disadvantage? We shall return to this point when we discuss the Tax Plan. The Minister is responsible for policy, so I would like to hear from him why he has decided to do so. I come to the subject of the public knowledge institutions, the TO2 institutes. In the interruption I mentioned the example of MARIN, a public knowledge institution for maritime technology. The cabinet is showing off a brand new maritime strategy for our shipbuilding and shipping, but at the same time MARIN is running out of about EUR 3 million. This means less knowledge development. In order to maintain the top position of the Dutch maritime industry in the world, I have tabled an amendment to allocate extra money to MARIN, so that one can really be the basic knowledge institution from which the Netherlands makes a lot of money. As a sector, this is 7.5% of our GDP. I come to the issue of the payment period for companies. That's an annual issue. Mrs Mulder has drawn up an own-initiative paper on this issue. This week we received a letter from the Minister about what companies can improve on payment deadlines. That letter disappointed me, because I note that this Minister will not take so much action on it. Then the action must come from the Chamber. I therefore hope that we can quickly discuss Mrs Mulder's note in that context. During the General Political Reviews, the Christian Union also called for attention to the cuts in green education. In the MBO and HBO hard hits fall with 15% less funding. Also in higher education, as in Wageningen, the cuts are felt. The difference from the Technical University has increased in recent years, while these programmes are very important for our knowledge-based economy. We shall return to the agricultural part of the budget. I would like to ask this Minister about his appreciation of green education. Given the strategic position in the top sectors, does he not find it detrimental that green education is lagging behind in funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u226	I am also waiting for the own-initiative paper, but I asked many years ago that the local authorities which do not comply with the statutory payment deadlines should be cut short on the Municipal and/or Provincial Funds. How does the Christian Union stand in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u227	That is the issue of payment periods between governments and companies. Mrs Mulder's own-initiative paper looks at the payment periods between companies. We have often argued here that local authorities, and indeed the State, should at least comply with payment deadlines and that we should simply apply the penalty rate. We have also talked about a naming-and-shaming list. I note that the Minister has taken this kind of action. This has also helped to improve the payment morale of the public authorities. There are still improvements to be made, but this is really about business-to-business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u228	But payment deadlines are payment deadlines. SMEs are affected by this. I also know what Mrs. Mulder is coming up with. So I understand that difference very well. The point is that the recidivists must be dealt with very hard. The PVV has asked for a reduction of these relapsers on the City and/or Province Fund. Just go punish them! How does the Christian Union stand in that? Does Mrs Schouten support that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u229	We want penalty interest to be paid. This penalty rate must also be paid by local authorities. You can do it left or right: you can cut them off on the Municipal Fund or the Province Fund or you can make them pay more when they break the law. We are more in favour of the second, so let them pay more when they break the law, as we do with any other citizen who breaks the law. I note that arrangements have already been made for this. My final point concerns sustainability and gas extraction. We've received the National Energy Exploratory. The Christian Union is deeply concerned about the sustainability of our economy. The NEV shows that the energy agreement is not yet doing its job; more needs to be done. In the area of renewable energy, we could make it in 2023, but the Minister cannot be satisfied with energy saving. Think of the built environment. I have tabled a motion for a zero-on-the-meter, including in industry, which is the subject of this Minister, when dealing with the budget for Housing and National Service. I call on the Minister to have more ambition from the Energy Agreement with the parties this autumn, including in action. Is the Minister prepared to commit additional efforts, especially for industry? With regard to gas extraction, I would like to hear another response to my adopted motion on the substantial reduction of gas extraction in Groningen. Is the Minister prepared to explain on Thursday how he intends to implement that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u230	Mr. Chairman. This minister is not the prime minister who sets a climate and energy target and lowers that target and then does not threaten to achieve that revised target. In 2012, the VVD and the PvdA set 16% clean energy as targets for 2020. Could the Minister tell me what has changed so dramatically in those three years? At that time, it must have been considered whether this 16% was feasible. On what basis does the Minister now insist that the targets will be met? That's what we hear in the media. Like the Minister, GroenLinks hopes that this will succeed, but we would like a little more certainty on this, also because the judge has instructed the Minister to reduce emissions by 25% by 2020. We see a number of new steps by the Minister, for which we pay tribute, even though we, like D66, have questions about bringing forward the budget for the SDE+ scheme. Can the market absorb such an increase, or is this increase going to bring the money forward, mainly to biomass? That would be a pity for my group, because the old infrastructure will be maintained rather than tilting towards clean energy. We welcome the scheme for small-scale sustainable heat. Is this scheme also open to all non-fossil heat sources? We welcome any improvement in local renewable energy generation by energy cooperatives. We have argued for a whole range of possibilities. We can now see that the Minister is constantly taking steps in this direction. We are also pleased about this. How did the Minister, adding these things together, get minus 25% CO and the 14% agreed at European level by 2020? The NEV shows that the pace of energy saving is falling from 2013. We also read that the expected energy savings in the NEV are between 1.2 and 1.5. The conclusions conclude this at an average of 1.5. That seems to us to be something that would not pass the math test. How quickly can we expect action on more energy savings? A number of different proposals have been passed into the PvdA's interrupting debate. What could be the Minister's approval? Then I'll come to our math masters. ECN is one of the parties that regularly reports in this area. I ask the Minister to reconsider a cut on the ECN. We ourselves have also launched a proposal to help bring the energy and CO objectives closer into reach. Look at the municipalities. Many municipalities are already implementing very ambitious energy and climate policies. They are also achieving results. As in business, they often face administrative burdens. They, too, would like to see a reduction in administrative burden. I can see the VVD looking my way in those words. An example is Arnhem, where the Minister and I jointly opened a solar panel project. There was a very complicated discussion between the municipality and OCW about how to get a guarantee. Would the Minister be prepared to conclude a green city deal to see where this unnecessary administrative burden is? What could we do about it? Last week, the Governor of the Bank of England said that he fears a new financial crisis, because we do not take sufficient account of climate change. The stock market prices of investors, but also the owners of fossil energy companies, are overvalued if we assume that some of the reserves cannot be burned up. Does this minister share the concerns of the Bank of England? They were also expressed by Klaas Knot. Does he agree with them that institutional investors, such as pension funds, universities and low-level governments and so on, have to move out of 'fossile', because the financial risks are too great? If you go through that reasoning, how does it fit in that the government probably intends to invest further in shale gas via EBN and invest in small field policy in the North Sea via EBN? What is the Minister's current view of ExxonMobil? Isn't that the Volkswagen among the oil and gas companies? Exxon, together with Shell, is a company the Groningers are dealing with. Does the State want to continue to cooperate with such a company? It was already known in the 1970s that fossil fuels would lead to climate change. Only it deliberately kept this inside. Internal documents, all of which have recently come out, show that it has played a conscious, active and thus misleading role in creating enormous doubts about climate change. If you have to keep drilling for gas with a company like this in Groningen, I'll ask the Minister. I agree with the questions that other groups have also asked about the surprising income from gas extraction in Groningen. So we are going to stay above 30 million cubs. The Minister has rightly expressed his regret, but how does he reconcile that with the budget? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has often said it on a regular basis: the only way to follow the advice of the regulator is to reduce the risk of severe earthquakes. The minister says he's turned off the gas main. Can he show us, on the basis of the ten-year legal ceiling, how far we are now below the current ten-year ceiling? I've asked you this before. I understand that it may be a difficult question, but I would ask for an easy-to-access overview of the difference between gross winnings and net winnings. There's a lot of mess coming out of the field. There's gas going in, too, Norg. Gas is used for free and for nothing by the NAM. What is offered at the GST? Do we continue to apply a different safety standard in Groningen than in the rest of the Netherlands? How's that going? Are we expanding the earthquake zone because there have also been severe earthquakes at Assen and Emmen? In Groningen there is a lot of unrest about the number of evacuations and evacuations. Some of them could be misinformation, but there is no publicly accessible register to see how many buildings have been evacuated, evacuated or demolished. Can the Minister insist that this be done? Is the Minister further in favour of lifting the duty of silence which the NAM often includes in its agreements on compensation? This also causes a lot of unrest, noise and uncertainty in Groningen. My final question about Groningen is how many houses have actually been physically strengthened, so not only has the chimney been demolished from the 3,000 homes that I believe we would strengthen this year. Shell and Exxon are holding on to their winnings in Groningen. As a result, 2,000 jobs are lost in the NAM and in the subcontractors. There is also a reduction in maintenance costs. What does this mean for employment in the North? If you're going to cut maintenance costs and you're going to cut down on your subcontractors, what does that mean for the safety of the installations in the short and longer term? According to the European Commission, 194 million has been spent on Dutch small-field policy in the North Sea over the last six years. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance considers that a far too strong fossil subsidy. The government obviously intends to do something like this again, to re-subsidise this small field policy, but the Minister must also implement the ruling in the climate case, reach European agreements in the field of renewable energy and warn the central banks about the risks of fossil investment. Can the Minister explain how to rhyme with that? I come to the storage of diesel oil in the salt caverns by AkzoNobel. This company is now clearly allowed to start, while its own safety plan has not yet been approved, there is no contingency plan or a good monitor. At the very least, residents should be able to expect the emergency and security plans to be in order and monitored. This is not a hypothetical risk. Just across the border in Germany, there has been a major problem with a similar oil storage. My final question on this point is: how much more would it cost if we had that oil part of it is our strategic reserve, so we do not want problems with it to just store it in good tanks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u231	Your last minute goes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Volkswagen fraud showed something else, namely that the Netherlands is an important supplier of Volkswagen. Can the Minister provide insight into the impact that, for example, a halving of Volkswagen would have on the Dutch economy? Can this minister of this crisis have a chance through eco-innovations in the transport sector? Other Members of Parliament have already made suggestions in this direction. Can sustainable means of transport be considered? Is the government prepared to set a good example, by cleaner transport and by teaching the drivers of the rulers the new driving? Finally. Appointment is agreement and rules are rules: they may be tile wisdom, but do they also apply to climate and energy policy? In our view, the Minister is still a driver of an old diesel car, which does kick the brakes, but which does not give sufficient priority to green innovations. As far as we are concerned, a Minister for Economic Affairs who will open coal power stations in 2015 is not yet sufficient as a minister for the future. It's a one-legged minister who's still solid in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u233	Environmental pollution is, of course, also strongly related to the number of inhabitants of a country. If all those tens of thousands of immigrants entering our country are going to live in houses that need heating and perhaps start eating meat, which, of course, is also very polluting, then of course we will not achieve these environmental objectives. Shouldn't GroenLinks be calling for an immigration ban as part of the environmental objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u234	I understand the PVV's strategy to reduce each debate to an asylum debate. That will undoubtedly have been agreed in the group. I am not going to go into that specifically, but I do think that for the entire world population, wherever it is housed, you should ensure that there is a balance between the planet and the population. It's possible. This means that, especially in countries with a high level of environmental pollution, air pollution, emissions and the use of all kinds of raw materials, we need to deal more efficiently with all these things. If Mrs Klever is really interested, I would be happy to go over our counter-budget with her, in which we make a whole series of proposals which will enable that to be done. If she wants to see it European, I also want to walk her through the European plans of the Greens and go through them with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u235	Is it gonna be a little chat? Or are you gonna finish up here anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u236	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't need to have a little chat. We are the parliament of the Netherlands here and I am interested in the Netherlands. To make a trip: in Switzerland, environmental parties have already called for an immigration stop. They did so with the so-called Ecopop initiative, because immigration is very environmentally damaging. At least that's consistent with the environmental party there. I think that GroenLinks is less consistent. GroenLinks is for a good environment, but if immigration is so environmentally damaging, it does not come out and Mrs Van Tongeren does not want to talk about it. In my view, this is precisely a point where we could come together. We want less immigration and you want less environmental pollution, what is more beautiful than an immigration summit, Mrs Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u237	Mrs Voortman, our spokesperson on this subject, has largely defended the Green Left position. GroenLinks does not think it is the solution to the environmental problem to have fewer people. If you want to achieve this, it is best to do so in developing countries or in developing economies, by providing good training for women. Then the birth rate goes down. You can also see very quickly among people who come to the Netherlands that over the generations the number of children decreases, as the training of women increases. That's what we're here for anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u238	I have the impression that we are getting a little out of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u239	Yeah, that's too bad. I find that somewhat inconsistent with GroenLinks. It's too bad I can't get an answer to my questions. Mrs Van Tongeren is not going to give that, so I'm sorry. A missed opportunity, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u240	Mr. Chairman. I'll start by complimenting the Minister. It's good to mention what's right. I believe that there is a strong budget with good innovation policy and good energy policy. And I think we've got a minister who's really after that. That can also be said on days like this. I thank him for that. In my view, Mrs Van Veldhoven has just given a very concise summary of a subject which is also one of the most important issues I would like to raise here. She said that the energy agreement lacks a long-term perspective. I would like to hear the Minister speak firmly on Thursday when he answers our questions. After all, of course, we are going to have a great deal of discussion about these short-term objectives. That's what I'm supposed to do. Putting down more windmills is a good thing, but we must do so. However, we are not achieving the sustainable perspective that is needed. I would therefore ask the Minister whether he is not underestimating new techniques. When I read the budget, I have to say that SDE expenditure on large-scale operations will increase from 1.2 billion to 3 billion in five years. Let me say again: EUR 3 billion. However, the budget for energy innovation is falling from EUR 110 million to EUR 89 million. In the coming years, we spend 34 times more time with each other in the setting up of existing technology than developing new techniques. That's not supposed to happen, is it? Does the Minister intend to align the innovation budget with the long-term sustainability challenges? This must not, of course, be at the expense of short-term challenges. The same is true in the case of energy saving. Others have also mentioned this point. That is where we are really short. Does the Minister provide sufficient budget for energy saving? I'm zooming in on the Demonstrating Energy Innovation scheme. Recently I made a work visit to BlueTEC in Den Helder. There they are working on innovation in the generation of tidal energy. There they make successful use of ebb and flood. It's very nice to report that, because the thing's been working for a while and it's working. So this works fine on a small scale. However, the entrepreneur was actually lucky, because when he signed up the scheme was oversigned three and a half times. He's been able to use it, but he's in the phase now that it's been proven that his idea works on a small scale. Now that he wants to scale up, the big question is whether he gets enough money for that. That's just the question, because we know that such a scaling-up is expensive. Although the budget for the scheme is increasing slightly this year and next year, it remains at EUR 50 million. So the question is whether entrepreneurs are able to get enough money for innovation. This certainly applies to the second phase, to the scaling-up. In short, will the Minister ensure adequate budget? Can he guarantee that no promising projects will be excluded? BlueTEC and the tidal energy were just an example. With tidal energy alone, we are not going to solve the problem, but I think we need all these new ideas to solve the problem. The same applies to thorium. I do not know exactly what its potential is and whether it will succeed. But we see that we will probably end up with a few tens of millions in the phase where we know the advantages and the disadvantages and can make a good balance. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to support this project.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u241	Does the SGP Group think this is an excellent task for the Netherlands? For example, does the SGP Group have any idea of how many thorium reactors you would have to plant in the Netherlands if it was the only way to generate the electricity used in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u242	I am far from being able to say that we are going to fill the whole of the Netherlands with thorium reactors and we are only going to generate our power with them. I do not think we should do that, because this is not about renewable energy in the sense that it can be used forever as a source. The potential is large and it is something on which we have a lot of knowledge. The Delft team is in the leading position in the world. That's knowledge I don't want to lose. If it succeeds, it can be a very nice export product that fits very well with the way the ministry is putting the scheme together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u243	Doesn't the SGP Group, like GroenLinks, think that you should have a final approach to waste? We still do not have that at the standard nuclear power stations. We are short of money if Borssele should be dismantled. No province in the Netherlands wants to provide a permanent storage facility for nuclear waste. We have a major unresolved nuclear problem and now we are going to reserve money for a similar energy because we happen to have researchers who think that is fantastic. We are doing this when it is already so difficult to find money to come to that future clean economy. Is that really convenient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u244	Yeah, that's very convenient. I don't know if it's gonna work out, but the technique is so set up that it could be done without the waste problem. That is precisely the beauty of the thorium plant, which does not, in the end, have the residual product that the nuclear power plant of the present generation has. We need to see if it all works on a large scale in practice. That's exactly why I'm saying it's an opportunity. It has to be. I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren that we should not invest heavily in techniques which have the same problem as nuclear power plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u245	I'm sure you'll be able to talk about it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u246	Certainly, Mr President, that applies to all subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u247	You'd better get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u248	We do not agree with the proposed integration of the two schemes for subsidising innovation, Wbso and RDA (Research & Development Deduction). We fear that multinationals in particular will benefit from it. Due to the removal of the ceiling per company, a number of large companies have significantly increased their tax advantage. Mr Verhoeven has already spoken about this. This puts the budget under pressure for the other SME entrepreneurs. I ask the Minister to reform the arrangements so that small and medium-sized enterprises do not lose out on large companies. Miscellaneous have already announced that they will arrange it differently in the Tax Plan. We will also contribute to this. However, it would be very nice for the Minister to say on Thursday: we are just solving this problem. I have a few short points to make. The SGP believes that companies are still subject to many rules. It can save a lot of time, money and frustration to cut down on that. We still see proposals coming to the Chamber wondering if their impact is well in sight. The line pressure paragraph will not be included. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that policy proposals are returned without a rule-print paragraph? My time is almost over, so for the sake of short, I agree with the questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u249	You can speak as long as you want, but it's at the expense of...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u250	Your own time, yes, I know. I know the rules of the game, Mr President, but this obviously does not go from my time. For green education, I agree with the questions put by Mrs Schouten. This is behind schedule. I think it should finally be solved. We've been talking about it for years. The same applies to the payment periods of companies. We also asked questions about this at the time. The Minister sent a letter. Things are happening, but can't this be speeded up so that companies get the money they deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u251	Then we go to tonight's fence: Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u252	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a rich country. We're in sixth place in the world. We have one of the most competitive economies. We are the fifth in the world. That's because of the Dutch trade spirit. This is due to Dutch entrepreneurs; many small entrepreneurs also contribute to this. Small entrepreneurs are the engine of our economy. They take care of the jobs, the money and our welfare state. If small entrepreneurs take good care of the Netherlands, the Netherlands must also take good care of small entrepreneurs. How can we do that? We must tackle the problems of the craft economy. We must tackle the problems of business transfer. We must tackle the problems of financing small and medium-sized enterprises. First of all, we ask the Minister to pay more attention to the craft economy. The word "craft" does not appear at all in the EZ budget nor in the budget of its colleagues from SZW and OCW. The craft economy is falling apart, while there is a serious shortage of craftsmen. The sector will have to look for half a million new professionals over the next ten years, because many craftsmen are retiring. We're talking about half a million new, working people. We at DENK believe that the Minister should make full use of this. Choose the small entrepreneurs. Choose hairdressers, opticians and glass-washers. Choose the banquet banks, piano tuners, chimney sweepers, bicycle makers, roofers, street makers and all other small entrepreneurs. The Minister of EZ must take the lead in this. Minister Kamp must be carried away in the highest gear and his colleagues Asscher and Bussemaker. Make sure that the skills of retired craftsmen are not lost. Ask these professionals for a final sacrifice. Ask them to take care of a young person who wants to take over their business. We at DENK are in favour of a master companion model. List maker and key maker aren't gonna be in school. That's what you learn in practice. Therefore, step away from the traditional educational model and opt for the master companion model. Dare to think differently. Dare to be creative. Don't put the money into specialist training courses that can barely survive. Give it directly to the masters, so that they can learn their companions the profession. You could do that with a voucher system, for example. That's how you avoid taking advantage of it. Is the Minister prepared to introduce this model not only on a small scale, but also on a large scale? Is the Minister prepared to come forward with an action plan for the craft economy in the short term? Is the Minister prepared to take a directing role so that the craft economy does not fall apart? I now come to the painful point of lending small businesses. That is a subject that concerns us and is very dear to us. But over and over and over again, the Minister tries to send me in with a brat. Fortunately, other political parties are now starting to hammer on this issue as well. What's going on? Banks keep their hands on the cut and don't give credit. This destroys small entrepreneurs and frustrates their dreams of the future. As a result, the Netherlands loses hundreds of thousands of jobs. This means that the account of the crisis is paid by small entrepreneurs. What are the facts? 44% of all applications for loans from small and medium-sized enterprises are rejected. In this way, the Netherlands is doing the worst in terms of lending in the euro area as a whole. I am not making that up, as is apparent from an investigation by the European Central Bank. We're in the very last place. Even Greece is doing better. The Netherlands is a desert of dried-up lending. And what does the government do about that desert? She's gonna water with a watering can. For three years she has been fanatical about watering water, but the desert remains dry and dry. The SME Financing Action Plans are not working properly. We will continue to be the worst in Europe in terms of lending, but the government will continue to improve its watering policy. What does DENK think should be done? Put those watering cans away, Minister. Sit down and try to see the big picture. The desert of dried-up lending can only be solved by the banks. They need to turn their water sprayers back on. Only then will the desert be fertile again. By themselves, banks do not want to give credit, because they make more profit with other activities: speculation, interest rate swaps and real estate. So the Minister has to intervene. If he really wants to, so can he. Instead of attacking the desert with his watering can, he must force the banks to turn on the sprinklers. Or maybe he doesn't want that at all? Is he becoming a patron of the banks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. Sorry to bother you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u254	I just needed to check on the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u255	I share everything Mr Öztürk said about lending to entrepreneurs. That is why I have asked several times: bring into life a kind of national savings bank that takes money from private individuals. I have also said it in my own contribution and then lends money to SMEs. That is actually the entrepreneurial bank that ONL has just come up with, when we have all been calling that out for years. Why does Mr Öztürk not support this? I don't understand. I make such a proposal and then he doesn't support it. And now he'll bring it up again. Has it been turned? Has he come closer to me? Aren't we becoming some kind of friends? What's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u256	We stand up for small entrepreneurs. When I was a member of the PvdA, I explained clearly to Mr Graus why we did not support the PVV's proposals. If he wants me to use the words I used then, I'll use them tonight. However, I think he knows these words, so I say to him: spare them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u257	That is something I like to note, also for the Acts: apparently party politics is more important than entrepreneurs. Actually, we should get together on this point, no matter what you think of me or what I think of you. The importance of entrepreneurs must be above party politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u258	A party that pushes citizens against each other, a party that hurts a lot of people, a party that comes up with proposals because of the concept of "refugees are bad for the environment": such a party comes up with such proposals. And then Mr Graus asks me to support his proposals!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u259	You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u260	The Minister should not choose the four large banks but the hundreds of thousands of small businesses. The Minister must choose not only the large companies but also the small ones. DENK finds the creative solutions from the shadow budget of ONL (Entrepreneurship Netherlands) worthwhile, for example De Nieuwe Ondernemersbank (DNOB) and the SME finance voucher, which gives small entrepreneurs the right to help with their credit application. I ask the Minister a specific question: what are you going to do with these two initiatives? I come to the problem of company transfer. Lex van Teeffelen from Utrecht University of Applied Sciences skips alarms here every year. In 2015, around 16,000 companies disappear because entrepreneurs retire and cannot find a successor. That is an annual loss of approximately EUR 4 billion, which is almost as much as the entire Economic Affairs budget, which we are talking about today. A further 2% of all Dutch jobs are lost every year in the case of company levies. That's about 150,000 jobs. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that these 150 000 workers can keep their jobs? Is he prepared to take full advantage of this problem of business transfer? It is not enough for the organisations that are involved in this. So the government has to intervene. I'm gonna finish up. I'm asking the Minister to invest in the neighborhood economy. With an investment by the Empire, municipalities can be facilitated to stimulate local activity. The money is made in the neighborhood. That's our core message. Choose the neighborhood instead of the Empire. Invest in the source. Invest in the small entrepreneurs. If you let the small entrepreneurs be successful, you make the Netherlands successful. Dare to think differently. Dare to stand up for the little entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-31.u261	We have thus come to the end of the first term of the Chamber in dealing with the budget of Economic Affairs. Thursday will be the Minister's answer. I thank the Minister for his listening ear.
