ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u1	Before I give the floor to Mr Otwin van Dijk, I inform the Chamber that Mr Van der Staaij has agreed with his colleagues that he may speak after Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Agema. We can look forward to that. But first we look forward to the input of Mr Otwin van Dijk. There is a new President who notes that we continue to do the interruptions in two: a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. When you get older or disabled and you can't do everything yourself anymore, you'd like to stay in charge of your own life. Then why do we accept that others are suddenly going to decide for you how to fill out your day when you live in a nursing home? Or why do we accept that if you're not as easy to walk or in a wheelchair, you can't go in many places? Why do we accept that institutions that provide care have sometimes become so big that we have lost influence over it? This week we could read again about the bankruptcy of caremoloch Meavita, which institution has become the symbol of what we do not want in care: too large and too impersonal. Caregivers were more concerned with prestige projects, power and their own salary than with good care for their clients. It is therefore good that we change care and give people more control so that they get the care that suits them. It is a good thing that we organise care in the neighbourhood and that we keep care affordable for everyone, even in the event of an ageing population. Many of these changes have entered into force this year. Are you okay? No, definitely not. Is everything as we see fit? No, not yet either, but I do see enough beautiful developments and new initiatives emerging. Clients, care workers, healthcare providers, municipalities and health insurance companies are looking for each other. People take the space that has been created for renewal. It also creates new energy. However, that does not happen on its own. To do that, you have to work together and tell them what you need, as a client and as a care worker. During this budget debate, I would like to focus on four issues related to this change in long-term care. I'll start with nursing care. The PvdA wants you to be able to count on a pleasant old age when you come to live in a nursing home. The PvdA wants you to decide what you want to do yourself or together with your family. Last week I went to work with the Three Sisters, three highly driven nurses in a nursing home in Rijssen. In practice, they show that there is also room for change in nursing care. The motto is "just like home." The care workers and the clients decide what the day looks like. You want to take an extra shower, that's what happens. If your group doesn't feel like cooking, you're gonna have a pizza across the street. As a care professional, if you need a particular course to take better care of your clients, you decide for yourself. There is no manager who centrally determines that, for example, everyone has to attend a time management course. It's up to you. This organisation has a clear vision, there is hardly any overhead and there is work with self-directing teams. That's the way it should be, but unfortunately in many places it's not that far. It is therefore a good thing that this year we started with a gideon gang of about 150 health care organisations that pave the way for the nursing home care of the future. Next year, we'll also make a lot of extra money for nursing homes. That extra money has come at the PvdA's insistence to improve the quality of life for people. The PvdA wants that extra money not to end up in the general pot of a healthcare institution. We want clients to decide for themselves what their extra daily spending will look like. We also want caregivers to decide for themselves the extra money for their training. How does the Secretary of State shape that? In what way can he guarantee that the money really ends up in daily spending and training? How do we know that the quality has actually improved? I come to tackling the bureaucracy in the care sector. The PvdA sees the release of the bureaucratic system as an important reason for reform. This creates space for customization and craftsmanship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u3	Just before the historiography. The PvdA spokesperson says his party invests extra in nursing care, but it doesn't. The PvdA is responsible for those draconian cuts and repairs a very small bit, but not what would actually be needed. The spokesperson of the PvdA, Mr Otwin van Dijk, also says that he wants, as it were, to mark money, thus spending the money on the matters he considers necessary. Then why don't we identify all the means? I'm just taking a little trip to the Social Support Act. When that law came into being, we said: why do we not ensure that the money can only be spent on care or on what it is intended for? The SP then tabled an amendment stating this and the Labour Party voted against it. Why does she want to tag the money now and why didn't she want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u4	Let me begin with Mr Van Gerven's first point. Next year, we're gonna spend extra money on nursing care. There will be extra money to improve the quality of life for people. We believe that people, when they are older, should not only have good care, but should be able to live a life that is meaningful and worthy during the day. I am proud that the PvdA has made sure that, now that things are getting better economically, people living in a nursing home can take extra advantage of that, so that they can have that dignified old age too. Mr Van Gerven's second question was about ear tags. The Labour Party wants the extra money we make to be spent on improving people's quality of life. That is why I propose that people living in a nursing home should decide for themselves. My proposal is also that the extra money we spend on educating people is not decided centrally by a director who thinks that everyone should take a standard course, but that it is looked at by the people themselves and that they decide what to do with that extra money. So it's not even so much a discussion about ear tags.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u5	I would point out once again that half a billion jobs are still standing, that the nursing homes will contribute to a large part of them and that they will be de facto cut-backs rather than additional investment. I'd like to come back to the ear tags. What does Mr Van Dijk think about the fact that the municipality of Hellendoorn puts four tonnes in the general budget because there is money left over from the Social Support Act? I don't understand how that's possible, by the way. That money is meant to support, help and care for people. How does this happen and what does the Labour Party think about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u6	That is perhaps a nice question from Mr Van Gerven. Of course, I don't know what the municipality of Hellendoorn did or didn't do. I do see that municipalities sometimes match money with money and make very interesting combinations. I was at work in Groningen not so long ago. There was a combination between sports money, other than Wmo money, and daily spending money. It is good to take out the divisions between care and sport, care and culture, and care and well-being at local level. That's what we wanted. I like to see good things happen. They happen in a number of places, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u7	What Mr Van Dijk is putting forward here can, of course, support the CDA: the money must end up with the people in the nursing homes themselves. However, I am very curious to see what that will look like. Just saying that the money has to end up with the people in the nursing homes themselves, of course you're not there. How does the PvdA see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u8	That is a good question from Mrs Keijzer. The Labour Party is concerned that this money does not disappear in the general pot of the care organization. The money must reach the people who need it and they must be able to decide it for themselves. How to do that is a question for the Secretary of State. I have asked the Secretary of State to continue working on this in such a way that we do not get a huge administrative ram, I believe that Mrs Keijzer and I also agree on this and the people themselves have control over how they spend the money, so that the extra daily spending actually ends up with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u9	Aren't you going to assume fiction when you say the money can't end up in the care facility's pot? A healthcare institution gets money from our budget and ensures that there is care for people, help with showering, daily spending, etc. Aren't you running a huge risk with a separate arrangement? Do you not run the risk of another 20 or 30 million of the 120 million going to be lost in administration and yet more accountants dealing with the question of how to distribute care? At the time you put it in the rates for care in nursing homes, people, through the new scheme in the Wlz, also have a say in what the care that is given to them looks like. The CDA is afraid that if the Secretary of State comes up with a subsidy scheme, there will be an enormous amount of money flowing away to accountants instead of to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u10	That is what we certainly do not want. I would have expected a little more enthusiasm from Mrs Keijzer. My proposal is, after all, a kind of mini-advocacy of the personal funding advocated by the CDA. In this way we can already practice with giving people their own control over their own extra money for daily spending. So I had expected a little more enthusiasm from Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u11	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u12	No, no, Mrs Keijzer, that's not how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u13	I ask a question and I'm told I'm not enthusiastic. Well, that's gonna ask for a rebuttal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u14	That is a conclusion and you may respond to it in the second term. You asked a question in two. I'll give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u15	That's how you complicate the debate, isn't it? Ultimately, it is €3 per hour of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u16	No, you asked a question and you received an answer. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u17	I see very nice examples in the country where clients together with caregivers and family get their own budgets and together can choose what the money is spent on. That is absolutely something that has value. I also see that nursing homes are preparing for the coming year and are committed to quality et cetera. However, they still have the savings in 2017. I cannot imagine that the Labour Party considers this to be well-defendable. Can Mr Van Dijk explain how we can prevent what is now being put on the ride by nursing homes, a year later because of a lack of money, from stopping abruptly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u18	The planned cut in 2016 is off the table. In fact, we are making extra money, 140 million, rising to over 200 million in the years to come, to invest in the quality of nursing homes. Mrs Dik-Faber also knows that we are announcing the budget for the following year on Princess Day. For 2016 we know what we are going to do and next year around this time we know what the 2017 budget looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u19	May I make this statement in such a way that the Labour Party says: we do not want to anticipate it, but we do want to do everything we can to prevent investment that is being made now, plans that are being made now, from being either reversed or timed back in 2017? After all, that would be very unfortunate of all the energy that is being put into it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u20	This is a very useful interruption by Mrs Dik-Faber. Look at this year's budget, which we discussed a year ago, and at next year's budget. The Labour Party has made sure that fewer cuts have been made and that additional money will be allocated to nursing care next year. You can never say that successes in the past are a guarantee for the future, but you can see where the heart of the Labour Party lies. I would have stayed and dealt with the care bureaucracy. In a number of places, that's not good enough. I am thinking of the efforts made by citizens' initiatives as health cooperatives to find a place in the healthcare system. Since this year, I have been hearing from healthcare cooperatives that professional buyers and procurement lawyers need to be hired to participate in a tender, while they were able to do so last year. I'm also thinking about people dealing with multiple laws of care. Sometimes it's a big job to get things organized. Municipalities sometimes refer to health offices and insurers again to municipalities. As a citizen with a question of help, you're in the middle of it. I am also thinking of health insurers who send a letter to people with a pgb for intensive child care that they must have arranged a re-indication within two weeks, threatening to stop the pgb if it does not succeed. Or they demand that a detailed care plan be written, while sometimes due to varying care it simply cannot. Healthcare insurers and municipalities still demand too much that people adapt to the system. But we didn't want that, did we? We wanted the system to adapt to people. How are the Secretary of State and the Minister going to ensure that they actually live up to the motto of their very first letter to the Chamber, "from systems to people"? How are they going to ensure that citizens' initiatives, such as care cooperatives, are not crushed in the care bureaucracy but given the space to develop? How are they going to include municipalities and health insurance companies in their ambition to move from systems to people? The third issue concerns the strengthening of social work. Social neighbourhood teams are emerging in more and more places.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u21	You said from systems to people. We have previously tabled a motion together to roll out low-level care across the country. We have said in this Chamber that the CQ investigation, the customer satisfaction investigation, must be abolished. What do I hear? That will not be abolished at all, because healthcare agencies say they have no alternative. In practice, this means that people are gradually having to complete three different customer satisfaction surveys, because that is asked if a father, mother, daughter or son lives in an institution: an investigation by the municipality, who wants to review its policy, an examination for the certification certificate which must have each institution because the inspection or the care office requires it to do so and still the CQ research. What can we do to get the two directors to give care firms an indication that they really need to end these CQ investigations if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u22	I do not really hear a question, but a kind of heart cry from Mrs Keijzer. I can only support that cry of hearts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u23	I did ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u24	I did hear a question. The question was specific: what can we in the Chamber do now to convince the Secretary of State that this is no longer the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u25	Yes, if necessary with a clue, because the law knows that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u26	I think this is a good suggestion. It's also just done with all the different client satisfaction surveys. I believe that we have also shared this in previous debates. Healthcare card The Netherlands is a beautiful and actually a very simple way to show customer satisfaction. So there is an alternative. Perhaps Mrs Keijzer and I should think about a way in which we can ask for a lead in the second term. Both by me and by the CDA, it has been argued on a regular basis that we should stop with all these different customer satisfaction surveys. Together we must be able to think of something good to call on the Secretary of State and the Minister to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u27	It's always nice to wait and see if the Secretary of State makes a commitment. If not, this will be a wonderful motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u28	Undoubtedly, as nice a motion as our earlier motion on the control arm works. I had come to my third topic, strengthening social work. In more and more places you see district teams emerge. I am often impressed by the enthusiasm of the staff of such a team. Where in the past every organization and every aid worker sort of went their own way and drove out of the neighborhood, now they're working together in the same neighborhood. There is also more room for unconventional solutions. Within that neighborhood, the neighborhood nurse is also working on a huge comeback. However, the PvdA also wants a similar revaluation for social workers. Good social work is just as important to stay at home. Helping to fight loneliness, building contacts and supporting people, for example in dealing with debt, is extremely important. This also helps to prevent heavier care and therefore also works preventively. More and more skills are expected from social workers. Learning to ask about what is really going on and the use of, for example, Eigen Stream-conferences are now part of it. The profession needs further development, as is happening in the countries around us. Does the Secretary of State agree with us and would he like to start a professionalisation approach for social work, as advocated by the Health Council? Is he willing to make training grants available for care also available for well-being? After all, the divisions between care and well-being are increasingly fading. I'd like to get his reaction to this. The fourth and final topic is about real control in your life. In the Wmo and the Wlz we have included some nice possibilities to strengthen the control of people. For example, together with D66, the PvdA has allowed people to draw up their own personal care plan, with the help of customer support if you need it. It has an emancipatory effect. This is how we create real demand-driven care. We see that very few people know that. That's a missed opportunity. The same applies to the combination of work and care. We want a society in which we stand by each other. To make that possible, leave to take care of someone is considerably extended. You can now also take care of a good friend who is sick and gets care leave for that. Unfortunately, very few people know that too. How will the Secretary of State ensure that people know that and that the possibilities of creating a care plan or better combining work and care are used to the full? Is he prepared to improve information on this? I'm gonna finish up. Care changes have begun this year. The other day I heard someone say: every transformation is accompanied by friction. I think that's true. You can do something about this by strengthening people's control. That is why we want people to be allowed to decide for themselves how they want to shape their daily spending or what training they want to take for tomorrow's nursing home care. That is why we want initiatives such as health associations to be able to find a place in the system without hassle. That is why we want to strengthen the position of social workers. People should be reminded of the opportunities offered by the new healthcare legislation. However, it is not just about the change of care, but also about the change of society. You can only get out of your way if society also takes you into account. Therefore, inclusion and accessibility should become the norm. We will be discussing the ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities in a few weeks' time. Finally! I look forward to it, because with more control of people, with institutions that take citizens' initiatives into account and with an accessible society, we are literally and figuratively creating a society in which everyone comes to their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u29	To join the latter, Mr Van Dijk advocates an accessible society. In that case, care facilities should also be accessible. On 25 August, the following headline appeared in the newspaper: Municipalities use their own contributions as milk cow. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u30	It has been used for years that people pay their own contribution to the care. If it is dependent on income and takes into account the capacity of people, I am not opposed to it, but when it becomes excessive, and in some cases it looks like it, we must, of course, look at it. That is why the Labour Party voted in favour of Mrs Keijzer's motion. I believe that Mrs Voortman has asked for a careful look at what this is about. I wonder what's gonna come out of that. A milk cow? No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u31	We know the Keijzer motion, but it has only a limited scope. The SP wants to examine the sustainability of all its own contributions. I refer to the Long-Term Care Act, the Social Support Act and the own risk. Is the Labour Party prepared to support a motion from the SP asking the government to consider whether this accumulation of its own contributions creates situations in which people can no longer afford it? We are getting signals that people are getting up to the order of €2,000. That's not supposed to happen, is it? So will...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u32	Are you prepared to support that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u33	I am always prepared to take a serious look at any motion tabled by a colleague, but Mrs Keijzer's motion was really not so narrow and Mrs Voortman's appeal was not so narrow either. It also calls for a look at this accumulation and for it to be included in the Social Affairs and Employment budget. I do not know what the SP motion adds, but I am always prepared to take a serious look at every motion that every colleague submits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u35	Mr. Chairman. First of all, many thanks to my colleagues for allowing me to speak earlier, so that I can attend a thank-you day service in my own church church. That's an old tradition on the first Wednesday in November. It is an annual thank-you day for crop and labor, as it is solemnly called, to thank God. In any case, it always helps me not to fall into groaning and to count my blessings as well. When we look at Dutch care in this way, we see that there is much to be thankful for. I just mention the dedication, warmth and professionalism of so many men and women in the country who work in healthcare. I am also thinking of carers and volunteers. They are an unprecedented capital of our society. I can already see the SP looking a bit questionable with too much gratitude and blessings counting: do you still have an eye for the misery that is to be found and for what is wrong in all kinds of places? That's true. If you count your blessings or are grateful for what goes well, you have no reason to sit back satisfied. It is also an encouragement to consider persistently what improvements are needed and possible. How can we support those dedicated people, rather than entangle them into a web of laws and rules? 2016 is another important year for care. I have just said that we must also pay attention to the alarming signals. I notice that you've been hearing from a lot of home care institutions lately that it's going to be difficult to keep your head above water. They are concerned about the discounts that are coming back, which result in clients getting on waiting lists or not getting the quality they need. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he recognizes these signals. What's his answer to this? For the SGP Group, it is important to pay attention to the freedom of choice of clients. We believe this can make a lot of problems go away. A competition has already been done to give the year 2016 a special destination. I have Googled for a while and I saw that 2016 has already been declared the year of the book and the year of the legumes. What are we all waiting for in 2016? Will 2016 be the year of deregulation or trust? Perhaps the "year of freedom of choice" is also something one can broadly agree with. There's a lot of work to be done. Is the freedom of choice in practice true for the people who need care? How could you give more substance to that? As far as we are concerned, it is important to put a dot on the horizon for the subsequent funding. There are significant new steps to be taken. It is also important to put an end to tight budget ceilings for small innovative providers, so that the waiting lists disappear and it is no longer necessary to have an annoying client stop. Work on an integral personal budget, across laws. There are concerns about cuts and discounts. We have recently heard about palliative terminal home care. People have been denied care at home, even though they were entitled to it and needed it. I believe that it is extremely important to avoid palliative care at least in terms of reductions and cuts in community care, precisely because, unlike many other ordinary care providers, the maximum use of volunteers and carers is already being made of this type of care. Unfortunately, the argument of self-reliance no longer applies to palliative patients, as is the case with other areas of care. I therefore call for particular attention to be paid to the vulnerable position of the palliative terminal home care. I also ask the government to ensure that the funding of mental care in palliative care at home is properly arranged. With a number of colleagues, we have put questions to the House. They're still open. By investing in specific expertise in wound care in the neighbourhood, people can be prevented from entering the hospital unnecessarily. I heard that the University Medical Centre Groningen has taken the initiative of providing nurses with top-quality care, including health care organisations in the region using high-quality nursing support and expertise. My question to the Secretary of State is whether the Cabinet is prepared to support these types of projects and see if they can also get national roll-out. Every year we are all very concerned about it: the administrative burden. Everyone agrees that something needs to be done on this point and that it is important that these burdens be reduced. We need fewer rules and fewer forms. If both the Chamber and the Cabinet think so, then you would say that in practice this improves with huge numbers. That's still disappointing when you ask for it. This is also due to the consequences of the reform of long-term care. As a result, more has come to the municipalities, with healthcare providers drowning in thousands of different, sometimes conflicting, demands made by health insurers, health offices and municipalities. The SGP therefore genuinely wants action from the cabinet in this respect in order, together with health insurers, health offices and municipalities, to align the purchasing, quality and billing requirements as much as possible. That would already give such a dose of misery to the practice of healthcare providers. The Youth Act provides that parents, family or others from the social environment of a young person have the right to draw up a plan of action themselves in the event of problems. Unfortunately, the practice turns out to be uncomfortable. How does the Secretary of State ensure that there is proper information about the purpose of the law? Does he find it undesirable to me that families and networks who want to work without the help of professionals should not be heard by many municipalities? We also hear disturbing signals that, for example, the Eigen Kracht Centrale Foundation, which was established for this purpose, is having a difficult time to survive in transition time. We would therefore like to see an amendment on this point so that temporary support can be provided and there is a fair opportunity to prove itself in practice. In response to my motion on the financial problems of carers, the Secretary of State has carefully listed all the existing possibilities. My question, however, is whether there can not yet be a little more visible in the practice of real compensation for carers who are in a difficult financial situation and who lack money. In addition, I believe that there is a national responsibility to encourage municipalities, which we must also do through our local groups, and I would like to say immediately that we must make real use of the opportunities available and the financial resources that have been made available for this purpose. With the project In voor Mantelzorg, a lot of knowledge has been gained about the interaction between care professionals and caregivers. Is the Secretary of State prepared to redeem these insights by actually supporting the follow-up project of Mezzo/Vilans, Recognition Good Assembly? I appreciate the fact that the Minister has set up a team of experts to deal with the problems of confused people who may pose a danger to their environment, which we discussed in detail earlier in connection with the Hoekstra Committee's report. It is good that this team has started, but I would also like to stress that the Salvation Army has recently sounded the alarm clock that half of its visitors are psychiatric patients, addicted or intellectually limited and actually need regular care. Although we have already talked about the link between deficits and cuts in ggz and what is going on in the street, it remains important that the connection with regular care is designed as well as possible. In the follow-up to the report of the Hoekstra Committee, I notice that at least two ministries are involved, namely VWS and Security and Justice. We ourselves find that when you ask written questions to two ministers, the answer to them always takes a little longer than when you ask them to a minister. It is therefore important to keep up the momentum and to prevent ping-ponging between departments from preventing a vigorous approach to these problems. The SGP is very pleased that the research agenda has been extended in relation to suicide prevention to explore how to reduce the number of suicides in the Netherlands. The target group of men between 40 and 60 years of age has been identified as a priority in the elaboration, but we miss priority for the group of young people and young adults who struggle with ggz problems and who unfortunately too often attempt suicide. That is why our request to pay particular attention to this issue. Finally, I would like to make a comment on medical ethics. In the brief context of my contribution, I cannot go into this in detail, but I would like to mention that there are also a lot of important issues that we will discuss in detail at a later stage. I am thinking of whether the abortion pill can be provided through the general practitioner, the opinion of the Schnabel Committee on Aid for Suicide and the opinion of the Health Council on the NIPT test. For our group, it is extremely important to ensure that this protection of vulnerable lives is also well developed. We are concerned that, for example, the number of abortions between 20 and 24 weeks since the introduction of the 20week echo has almost tripled as a result of the NIPT tests. Our fears about the consequences that that will have are well known. I would also like to draw your attention to this. We wholeheartedly support the Dik-Faber amendment calling for good medical guidance, including for adult people with Down syndrome. We are happy to support that plea. Assistance in case of unwanted pregnancy requires independent, specialised, social counselling in a neutral environment, so that the choice of the woman is not affected by it. That is why we are asking whether it is so logical that in practice this has also been invested in abortion clinics. Our proposal would be that this counseling should also take place outside an abortion clinic and that funding should be linked to it by specialised organisations such as FIOM, GGD, Siriz and the like. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister. I promise colleagues who I will no longer be able to follow so closely that I will read their contribution carefully at the end of this thank-you day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman. I wish Mr Van der Staaij every success. I always think it is very good how a small group can make such a broad contribution in so many areas. Good luck today! I'll start with nursing care. Today exactly a year ago Ben Oude Nijhuis, 82 years old, alerted the care of his heavily demented wife and, later turned out, to the mother of the Secretary of State. Mr Oude Nijhuis became a hero when he stood up to the Secretary of State in the television programme Pauw, especially as he continued to defend his austerity stoic. Mr. Oude Nijhuis wanted to see the policy change. His biggest fear was that the discussion would bleed to death. He managed to keep the discussion alive for two weeks, until he suddenly died. The sad conclusion must be that, unfortunately, he has not been able to experience better care for his wife. The previously booked additional savings on nursing home care in 2016 of €45 million have been deleted, but the so-called investment of €140 million to improve quality and the €100 million to train staff are a false cigar from their own box. In recent years it has been significantly less, less with the macro budget for nursing homes, the extra investment impulse, the Agema funds and further cuts. And on top of that, the 500 million cuts for 2017, which are not yet off the table. Probably the coalition doesn't think she'll be on the plush next year. Is he who then lives, who then cares? And my goodness, that beautiful 80 million-dollar note for an hour's attention a day, how deep did you sink? How sad and sad is it that after a cut, rising to more than one billion euros, attention is supposedly going to be paid for an hour? An hour a day, the Secretary of State claims. But with 80 million euros, you can only buy one hour every two weeks. Is that the standard of dignity? Is that what the Secretary of State is proud of? Is this the dignity and pride of the Labour Party, which felt it necessary to demolish the right of residence, such as the right for nursing home residents to take showers every day or to be allowed out every day, consciously and actively, from the new law, simply because that was my initiative? Right of residence regulates business. What about the PvdA? Well, she just snuck it out. And then there was another beautiful decorative press release about reporting the inspection of 150 nursing homes. Make good decoration with the fact that the 150 organisations examined largely comply with the standards, which are ticking lists. Normally, this Secretary of State has no problem leaving reports and investigations in a drawer for a long time, but this report was sent to the Chamber even before the ink was dry because it allowed him to make good decoration. But if there are noticeable improvements, it is not thanks to but despite the battlefield of austerity of this cabinet. The nursing homes were visited after the introduction of the plans of the previous cabinet, the substantial additional investment impulse, the Agema funds, the extra staff and before the introduction of the balding of this cabinet became measurable. I'm not gonna beat myself on the chest for that. When the temperature warms up from minus ten to minus five degrees Celsius, it's warmer, but it's still freezing. If it gets minus 20 degrees, then there's really a big problem. I'm moving on to the nursing homes. Since the Kunduz agreement, 60,500 nursing homes have been destroyed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u37	What does the PVV group think about the 130 million extra going to nursing care? The maths are different. One says it's about one hour of care per day, the other says it's about €360 per day. I said earlier an hour, but I meant a day. It's extra money. What does the PVV think? Should it be included in the tariffs or should a subsidy scheme be introduced? I asked the PvdA group and they didn't know. I'm looking for a way to spend this money in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u38	It's not extra money. The Agema funds were created to raise the cost from 95% to 100%. These were taken off later and the cost was 95% again. Then there were additional discounts and it became less than 95%. I don't know what the rates are on right now. If you add 140 million, you'll be below the cost. That's one part of my answer: it's definitely not extra money, but I don't know how much less it is. The Secretary of State does not answer this question. The second point is that I believe that the budgets should be at cost level. The institutions must then decide how the money can be spent as well as possible. I'm not in favour of a grant scheme. Since the Kunduz agreement, 60,500 nursing homes have been destroyed. This is not because people wanted to do so, as the Secretary of State continues to do with manipulative mantras. This is because of the policy and it concerns stopping the funding of the care homes as of 1 January 2013, zzp 1 and zzp 2, and as of 1 January 2014, zzp 3, to put it technically. The desire to live in a nursing home is not gone at all. Even when there was some reluctance at first, many people often flirted with it. They're safe together and the care is close. It's a sheltered place with 24-hour care, there's cosiness and help comes when someone falls. They love resurrection in a house like this. The fact that this had to be destroyed by the VVD, the CDA, GroenLinks, the Christian Union, D66 and the Labour Party is hard to understand. Not at all now, with the help of the same parties, so many closed care homes are reopening the doors to the housing of asylum seekers. The constant mantra that older people prefer to stay at home is based solely on the tendency to reduce the number of nursing homes since the 1980s. If, however, he structurally denies that 80% of the places have disappeared in three years because of his own policy, what is he doing? To our great surprise, the Labour Party in Eindhoven also finds that the nursing home needs to come back old style. First close the nursing homes, then put asylum seekers in it and then make beautiful decorations by saying that you want the care home back. Typical PvdA is this, isn't it, Mr. Van Dijk? First put the axe in the budgets and then tell them to add money. There is no alternative to a nursing home. There aren't enough sheltered areas anymore, there aren't enough residential-care complexes anymore, the "care at home" alarm isn't close anymore, the maid service is halved, there are waiting lists for the neighborhood care and lounge house doesn't lean against anything anymore. The people who now live at home can no longer go to the nursing home in the neighborhood to eat or put a ticket there. It remains a fact that the group of people who would have liked to live in a nursing home is simply old and has the necessary problems. These people are almost deaf, almost blind, starting with dementia, bad on their feet or a little bit of everything. The children of these elderly people are also at an age and they see their surroundings slowly disappear. The elderly are now waiting for home care and hope that there will not be another face. They're looking forward to the door through which the delivery guy gets off the table-deck, hoping for a chat. The elderly are rotting at home and waiting is for a fall or another accident, so they end up in a hospital and can't go home at all. Anyway, everything's getting better. These things are now happening on the conveyor belt. Municipalities that refuse house adjustments, delete domestic assistance and use waiting lists for nursing and care. However, the senior citizens of this country want it all to be their own. They want to live at home as long as possible. The number of elderly people reporting for emergency care is increasing, the number of elderly people with burns is increasing, the dementia of elderly people wandering the streets for days and overburdened carers are no longer watching. The number of reports of parental abuse has tripled. But oh, oh, oh, what do they want for themselves? So we have only once contacted Berenschot to ask for the current state of the number of closed houses. But what turns out is that one has only stopped, because it has been realized by the large number of mutations to keep up with this list. We called ActiZ. I would also like to mention the 2013 benchmark. No one has the human power to keep track of which nursing homes are open or not. The Netherlands list country, you'd say; but no. So we went on our own to investigate. 2,800 care and nursing homes are not so easy yet. We wanted to google on the list, but, yeah, what turns out? When nursing homes are closed, they sometimes still have a running website. At the moment there is no one who has an insight into the total number of nursing homes and nursing homes in the Netherlands or the total capacity of nursing homes purchased in these homes. No one knows the actual number of beds that are currently occupied and no one knows anything about the empty position. That's kind of weird, isn't it? The organizations can't keep up, and the Secretary of State? She doesn't want to know. So we don't know. We only know that at the end of 2012 there were 78,000 nursing homes and there were 17,500 at the end of 2015. A decline of 80% in three years' time, but that is what the elderly all want. I'll come to home care now. Meanwhile, Asia literally rolls out the red carpet for the neighbourhood care concept. Jos de Blok joined the Dutch trade mission in China last weekend, led by King Willem-Alexander, in the presence of our Secretary of State, who in the Netherlands is doing everything possible not to roll out the neighbourhood care concept nationwide. Under pressure from the insurers, he chose the bureaucratic consultation system of the social care teams. So that's what he's holding on to. On October 28, Jos de Blok signed a covenant with the Chinese partners in the presence of the King. How crazy do you want it? In their own country, care stops are now taking place in the district care, with the sad low point of the report that at least 23 terminal patients who wanted to die at home have been denied care at home in recent weeks. Over their backs, the Secretary of State, the providers and the insurers are playing a dirty game. You can't die again. There's been a line crossed here. We will soon be discussing it in a separate debate. Meanwhile, the pgb-drama continues. People are still waiting for their money. Our Secretary of State calls an error rate of 5% stable. But there's nothing to worry about. What a trustworthy government this is. The household help is deleted massively. Thousands of people have to go to court to enforce care. Meanwhile, some 7,000 people still have to get their bill for their own contribution Wmo throughout 2015 and the Central Administration Office works with three systems. But there's nothing to worry about. What a trustworthy government. The debate I have requested is still on the table. Of course, I want a ceiling to be set on the moment when a government can still come up with an account. The government has a deadline for its citizens, right? The government makes mistakes and the Secretary of State makes mistakes, but citizens shouldn't bleed for that, right? Then the bureaucracy. It's only increasing instead of decreasing. So much for the year of transition, in which we were supposedly able to adjust; the year of adjustment. But has anything been sent in? No, nothing's been sent in at all. We have not received any legislative changes or "change of plans"; nothing at all. The year of reassignment is over, but nothing has been reassigned. We'd like to adjust. We would redirect by immediately starting the refinancing for stays in a nursing home and bet on separation of living and care. The proceeds are about EUR 5 billion, 3 billion on capital costs and a small 2 billion on own contribution. We would do so by cutting the cuts in domestic aid and tapping the millions out of the millions without losing anyone's concern. We would do this by shaping home care through the neighborhood care model of one product for one price with one lead time. For example, we would save more than EUR 600 million without anyone losing their care. We would do so by tackling the waste, by generating better efficiency and creating a more enjoyable working environment with lower absenteeism. The tons of touching dysfunctional predators need to get out. We want flat organisations and we want to combat food waste and malnutrition. I also mention the generation of lower purchasing costs through collaboration, barcodes on all products and the prevention of waste of medicines. The fight against fraud and rules and an overhead standard with a modest workplace bonus also generate billions. That's how we'd adjust. In my book Silvering, I list in 29 chapters about about 100 pages a huge amount of reports that make long-term care significantly cheaper. These are reports with so much revenue that the care fits in twice and of course that is not possible, free care does not exist. The care can be so much better and so much cheaper that it is so sad that in 2017, when this cabinet finally gives the brunt, we will probably be looking at the shards of what was once the care of the elderly. Sloop bullets did their job. So is the Secretary of State. The elderly became the child of the account. I'm glad Ben Oude Nijhuis doesn't have to go through that anymore. It can do so much better! That is why, in conclusion, I read a small piece from the epilogue of my book Versilveren. "Call me a dreamer, but how fantastic would it be if in a few years we could walk into any old people's home and it's just a good thing. An elderly house is then small on purpose, with 8 to 30 residents. If you want to live large-scale in a Centerparcs-like environment, you can. Organisations are controlled by management flat and sober. The costs are one third lower, the quality and satisfaction are higher. Older people's care is freed from mismanagement and fusion drives that lead to care giants with sometimes 100,000 patients, five management layers, an expensive car park, mega salaries and administration offices at industrial sites. The carousel of dysfunctional drivers, including the largest predators sometimes touch tons, has been broken. In fact, there are hardly any drivers left. Driver becomes a person only after an important driver test. Usually a single-headed board has the strings firmly in place. Often that is a retired somewhat older lady, who has worked in care her whole life. She has authority, knowledge of things and demands the best quality. What was taken away is back: the conscience. Care settings are running smoothly. Expensive desks, computers for everything and the suits are out the door. The professionals have regained the confidence of The Hague. The money doesn't stick in the system anymore, but it's back at the workplace. This makes for a lot more hands on the bed, for caring for the elderly, for washing, changing, brushing and dressing teeth, for taking care of wounds. The buildings are fully equipped, although the luxury doesn't drip off in a weird way. Besides the chief nurse, there's only someone on the records who's doing part-time accounting on the only working computer left in the house. The law still lays down the rights to allow residents to go in the shower or out whenever they want. Ready-to-eat meals are something of the old days. There's fresh cooking. The cozy smell of fresh food fills the houses and if it can be cooked together and the groceries are done together with the residents. Living in an old people's home no longer leads to poor or unheard of situations. A lady remains a lady, a gentleman a gentleman, whether they live at home or not."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u39	I wonder who Mrs Agema is still in the debate with. It's like she's just reading from her own book, but I still have a question. It turns out that care in the Netherlands is one of the best in the whole world. It also appears that we in the world belong to the countries with the highest spending on care. When I hear Mrs Agema, it seems as if we are in a third world country, where almost everyone is locked up, there is no choice, everyone is deeply unhappy, the care is completely broken down and Mrs Agema, who is going to save the day. I think that is a bit of the story Mrs Agema is trying to put here. Will she answer for me the question of how high the Netherlands is on the list of healthcare expenditures? Where do we stand, according to the OECD? And who is above us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u40	It is clear that Mr Potters did not read my book, otherwise he would not ask this question. I have always said that my party, my group, is not at all in favour of raising the cost of care. We only make other choices than the VVD. In my book I give on more than 100 pages, in 29 chapters and incredible stack of paper, 7 meters of reports on how healthcare can be cheaper in another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u41	I don't think you have an answer to my question, but it doesn't matter. I'll give you the answer. The Netherlands is in fourth place in the world, with more than €5.31 billion for care and structural investment in it. America's first. In second place is Switzerland, in third place Norway and in fourth place Holland. Mrs Agema makes it appear here that we are a third world country that spends almost no money on care and not on structural investment, rather than that she represents the picture honestly: we spend a lot on care and that care is also good quality. I would like Mrs Agema to acknowledge in this debate at least that we are spending a lot of money on care, that we are in the top five and that we are not a third world country that spends almost no money on care. She's constantly trying to put that image here, and I want to fight it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u42	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Again, Mr Potters obviously did not read my book. I'll quote 559 reports with evidence for what I'm saying. We have always said not to be in favour of higher healthcare expenditure. Again, I give more than 100 pages of savings and cuts where no one has to lose their care. I find it bizarre that we are in fourth place in terms of expenditure and that, despite this, care in the Netherlands is less than adequate. The inspection indicates that 96% of health care institutions do not have the staff in order. I didn't make that up. That's what the inspection says. In a country where so much money is spent on care, it is so badly arranged. The money stays at the top, with expensive suits, with tons of earning managers going from institution to institution. That's where the money gets stuck. And then Mr Potters comes here. Next time you attack me, make sure you've read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you. We'll do it all in two, you too, Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. Last year, the PVV expressed its concerns about the bankruptcy of hospitals. This year we express our concern about the possible bankruptcy of the healthcare agreements. The GP agreement has been broken, the GGZ agreement has been unilaterally terminated by the Minister and the hospital agreement results in waiting lists or a treatment stop, with reports in the media as "patient does not get best medicine" of March this year, "my hospital prohibits expensive cancer medicines" of June this year and "lung cancer medicine not available to every patient" of September this year. The minister seems deaf to these patients' distress calls. She merely reiterates her mantra that care in the basic package should be reimbursed, but patients are now sent from the locker to the wall, from hospital to health insurance and back again. Concrete measures to solve these problems continue to exist, while the main cause seems to lie in unclear policies. If the healthcare agreement causes waiting lists, delay or even adjustment of treatment, something must be done about this. Can the Minister now clarify this so that all parties know where they stand? Or does the minister insist in her mantra that someone who doesn't get the care but has to file a complaint or go to court? I would also like to hear the state of play of all the care agreements. Do they still exist, do they still work and do they get anything? The Court of Auditors also had some critical noises about the latter. It is good that the fraud approach has been given increasing priority since the opening of the PVV fraud reporting point and that more money has been made available for it every year, but how much money has actually been recovered from ex post control? What did the total amount of unclear declarations, fraud and any fines imposed, and what happened to that money? I hope that health insurers are not allowed to add this to their buffers. After all, the fraud approach should ultimately result in a lower premium for citizens, but the premium and its own risk are rising again. Can the Minister provide insight into this? Otherwise, I can only conclude that the fraud approach is still not in place. A new report on avoiding care shows, according to the Minister, that it is all well and good to avoid care. However, the National Family Doctors Association feels very differently about this. Is it so difficult to draw the conclusion that care for certain people has simply become too expensive? Half a million people refrain from caring for financial reasons. Almost a million people have had to close a payment scheme because they cannot pay the risk. But the Minister also seems deaf to the cry for help of these patients. She constantly points out that in the Netherlands we have the best healthcare system in the world. But what good is a good health system if you can't afford it? Ask the patient who is no longer receiving his expensive cancer medicines and is being referred from hospital to hospital whether he also thinks we have the best healthcare system in the world. Or to the patient who can no longer go to his doctor in the academic hospital, because he has a budget policy. Or to the patient who cannot be admitted because a treatment stop has been initiated by his health insurance provider. Trust in our healthcare system is falling. Rightly so, because this is not the healthcare system that patients want. It has to be affordable again. Make sure that the premium and its own risk can be reduced by, for example, a better fraud approach. By getting patients to check the bill, they can save tons, was in the newspaper last week. But why is that account still so complicated? Again the question of what happens to the euros recovered. It's not the health care system that doctors want either. Doctors don't want to refer patients or put them on waiting lists because they're out of budget. Doctors do not want to spend more and more time on administrative procedures and less and less time on the patient. Doctors don't want to treat on the basis of policy or contract, but on the basis of medical necessity. However, the Minister is moving in the opposite direction and wants to give the health insurers even more power. She is again inventing ways to eliminate uncontracted care and abolish the free choice of doctors. She has to, because that was the requirement that the health insurance companies had laid down in the healthcare agreement. Maybe it's a reason to declare that healthcare agreement bankrupt. Another problem which the Minister does not know how to solve and which he is putting forward is that of the defaulters. Under her reign, this number has risen to a record level. More than 1 billion are open to premium money and 330,000 people are counted as ungrateful and do not pay a premium, but receive care. There is, of course, a distinction between people who can't afford it and those who don't want to pay it. But there is a hard core that has never even paid a premium. Then why are they entitled to all care? Can the Minister explain this again? If you don't pay your energy bill, you're gonna end up getting shut down. Anyone who doesn't pay his rent will be deported. Anyone who doesn't pay his traffic ticket will end up in jail. But if you don't pay your healthcare allowance, you have nothing to fear, you just keep getting care and free care. And yes, I repeat for the umpteenth time: immigrants are three times more unpayable than natives, and the percentage of immigrants is rising harder than natives. Why is there not yet a specific policy to deal with immigrants who are not paying? There's only one way to really tackle this problem, and that's cash settlement. All care not covered by a medical emergency must simply be paid directly by these persistent defaulters and otherwise no care. How hard can it be? When is the Minister going to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u45	Does the PVV itself have any ideas to deal with ethnic delinquency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u46	I just said that, but I would like to repeat it: there is only one way to deal with the problem of default, and that is just to settle it. If you don't pay your bounty and you still want care, you have to pay cash and otherwise no care. With the exception of emergency care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u47	But Mrs Klever of the PVV had the need to ask for specific measures for ethnic destitutes. Why does she necessarily feel the need to distinguish between ethnic destitutes and indigenous destitutes? This should apply to everyone, right? So what specific measures does Mrs Klever propose for those immigrants who do not pay? She also tabled a motion on 15 April 2015. What does the PVV have for specific measures in relation to one group of contributors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u48	I'll explain where this came from. They're numbers from the CBS. Allochtones are three times more ungrateful than natives. I'll split it up: Moroccans are five times more unpayable, Turks are four times more unpayable, Surinamese are six times more unpayable and Antillians are even ten times more unpayable than natives. The PVV has often made concrete proposals. If you don't pay your care premium, if you're a persistent pay-per-payer and if you want care, you have to pay cash. And otherwise you just won't get any care, except for emergency care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u49	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u50	There's another concern. Now the care premium can still be deducted from the statutory minimum wage of defaulters, but that will no longer apply as of 1 January 2016. Then the Law approach goes into bogus constructions. However, exceptions may be made in the case of General Administrative Measure. Is the Minister still going to arrange for the care premium to be included in this General Measure of Management? I come to my last and at the same time most important point in this budget. The influx of asylum seekers is a huge attack on our healthcare system. We have to face the fact that the limit of what we can handle has been reached. The cost of care per asylum seeker is on average over €5,000. According to the CBS, they also use care more than average. If we don't exclude these lucky seekers or let them pay, our welfare state will be finished. The VVD also wants to reduce the care of asylum seekers, but gives the wrong picture. It is not a question of losing breast augmentations or eyelid corrections, which are not covered by the basic package. It is about limiting the far too broad basic package that asylum seekers are entitled to, which has more concern than the basic package for Dutch people and which is also completely free of charge. What many people do not know, for example, is that asylum seekers receive physiotherapy from the first treatment, while Dutch people with chronic complaints have to pay for the first twenty treatments themselves. Can the Minister explain why this is so? Does she consider this to be a matter of solidarity? Or are Dutch people second-class citizens? Another example is contraception. Female asylum seekers receive them free of charge, but Dutch women have to pay them themselves. Why is this so? Hearing aids, glasses, a rollator or maternity care are all free for asylum seekers. The Dutch are entitled to their own contributions, but not to asylum seekers. The Dutch are at their own risk of €385 for next year, but that is not the case for asylum seekers. Why is no contribution required from asylum seekers? At least we ask for €5 for medicines from illegals. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u51	I think the answer to that is that asylum seekers should not collect income. Does the PVV want to enable asylum seekers to work so that they can choose their own health insurance and pay contributions? That would be the most logical way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mrs. Voortman thinks so, but she doesn't know. We do not know whether asylum seekers have any money. They pay thousands of euros for their crossing and their journey here. Who says they don't have any money? I'm not saying that. In addition, they also receive living money from the government. A family with two children gets €800 living money in the month. I don't see why they wouldn't be able to pay for that. Thirdly, there are plenty of Dutch people who have no money and cannot afford it, but they do have to pay. GroenLinks should stand up for those people!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u53	Those are the people from whom the PVV says they need to be dealt with hard and that they should only be able to get emergency help. It would be a good thing if the PVV were to look more closely at the facts. Asylum seekers are not allowed to raise income. The €40 per day that Mrs Klever is talking about is money that the COA gets. A very small amount of this goes to asylum seekers. You really can't pay a bounty for that. I find what Mrs. Klever says very strange. She doesn't have her facts in order at all. She only responds to images. It would be nice if Mrs Klever could get a little more eye on the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u54	It would be nice if GroenLinks could get an eye on the facts. Every week many thousands of asylum seekers come here who travel across Europe, through eight different countries. That costs thousands of euros. Then how can Mrs Voortman say that they have no money? It's the rich people who come here because the poor can't afford it. And for those people, GroenLinks wants to make the care completely free. And who's gonna pay for that? The Dutch who are already unable to pay for their own care. Those are the facts, Mrs. Voortman. Then you shouldn't say that the PVV doesn't come up with facts. In addition, they receive living money from the Dutch State. They can also pay for their care. Again, the Dutch who can't afford it all, pay for these costs. I think that's antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u55	I have a personal fact, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u56	Okay, a personal fact. That is what we are going to note in the Acts. So not a question, but a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u57	I did not say that we believe that asylum seekers should receive all care free of charge. I said, "Enable them to work." That's what I said. Another example is that Mrs Klever does not have the facts properly in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u58	This is recorded in the Acts. This was a correction. I now give the floor to Mrs Bouwmeester for her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u59	When you see the images of people coming out of a boat with their children and two plastic bags, the children with a bear in their hand, and when you hear the PVV say that these are a bunch of lucky seekers who have come here with a lot of money, you can call it embarrassing. When you see parents who make such a flight with a very small child because their country is being shot in ruins and they can't go anymore, you can also say: what nice that other countries want to help. Imagine if they were your own children! What does the PVV say? Those people don't get to worry. What if these people get very sick or, worse still, go to hell? Mrs Klever says that these people only receive emergency care and nothing else. What is her definition of "emergency"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u60	I find it a little embarrassing that Mrs Bouwmeester of the Labour Party is drawing a totally wrong picture here. Look at the images of those thousands of well-fed young men with the latest iPhone traveling through eight safe countries to get to the Netherlands. How can she say that these are incredibly pathetic people who can't do anything? If you're really on the run, you're satisfied with the shelter you get in the first safe country. But no, these people choose to spend thousands of euros to travel through all those states and then enter the Dutch welfare state. Well, if you have that kind of money, fine, then you pay for the care yourself. What's wrong with that? Why should the Dutchman who has it much less wide than these people have to pay for it? I think that's antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u61	I leave this presentation entirely on behalf of the PVV. You want to deny people care. People only get emergency care. Let me make it very visual for a moment, because this fits in the list of 'big words, no deeds'. What if someone gets something from their heart? He's going to intensive care. Then we're gonna need to get him to cardiac surveillance. That does not fall within the definition of "emergency," so he has to pay for it himself. In the definition of the PVV people are then thrown out, with a high chance that they still die. Are you willing to let people risk dying if they cannot pay their care costs? Or do you want to make sure that people are helped and always get the care they need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mrs Bouwmeester clearly does not know what she is talking about. I would like to refer to the directive of her beloved EU which regulates minimum provisions for asylum seekers. It only refers to emergency medical aid, namely emergency care Article 19. I'd read that, then you know what we mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u63	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u64	In addition, according to the World Health Organisation, asylum seekers have relatively many health problems. They have much more common mental complaints and they can bring scabies, tuberculosis, MRSA, hepatitis, typhoid, cholera or polio. That is annoying enough for those people themselves, but it is irresponsible that the Minister does not want to make the cost of screening. She has suspended screening on TB for Syrians. However, the problem is that the majority call themselves Syrian, whereas according to Eurostat only 21% actually come from Syria. I therefore ask the Minister once again to reverse this suspension immediately and to resume screening. We then import more infectious diseases through family reunification. And while we're pulling all this in, Dutch people have to wring in all kinds of corners to keep the care affordable. We have to stop this. Enough is enough. Our healthcare system can only remain in solidarity if everyone contributes to it. This means we're gonna have If they don't, they won't be given any care, except emergency care. How hard can it be! When is the Minister going to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u65	On the one hand, the PVV says: we actually let people die, because we pay for intensive care, but nothing else. We know the risk of that. She did not want to answer my question about this. So I assume she doesn't have that answer. On the other hand, the PVV says: if people bring infectious diseases, then suddenly we will pay the care costs. That's a bit contradictory. It would be very good if the PVV also thought that these care costs should be paid for everyone. After all, we do not want people to die because of selfishness, and that is what it is all about. I am very curious to hear Mrs Klever's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mrs Bouwmeester often shows that she doesn't listen at all. Who says we want people to die? Those are her words. I'd like to leave those words on her behalf. We say that asylum seekers have to pay for the care themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u67	I conclude for the third time that the answer of the PVV is that someone else doesn't know what they're talking about, that they don't understand it and that they don't understand the people in the country. I leave those terms on behalf of the PVV, but I note that there is no answer to the question. Mrs. Klever says people who don't pay up don't get care. The conclusion is that this has very serious consequences and that this can even lead to death. Is that what the PVV stands for? I would like my question to be answered with "yes" or "no." If there is again no answer, I simply conclude that Mrs Klever is using very painful words, but fortunately she is not delivering them. Well, that's a relief for people in need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u68	I've said it a number of times, but Mrs Bouwmeester just won't listen. People have to pay for the care themselves. People who spend thousands of euros to make use of our facilities in a country like the Netherlands can afford to do so themselves. And if they don't, they pay for their living money they get from the state. There are also plenty of people in the Netherlands who can't afford it and they have to pay it. If they refuse, that's their choice and they only get emergency care. And what is emergency care? It seems to me that we leave that to the doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u69	This morning, the SP explicitly launched its plan "Our concern is ours." In it we propose a number of solutions to make and maintain care for everyone affordable. We also propose abolishing market forces and competition in care. We have had an investigation into what people in society think of that. And what does it turn out to be? 68% of the PVV's supporters say that we are in favour of the national healthcare provision proposed by the SP. 80% of the PVV electors say that we are opposed to competition in health care. And what does Mrs. Klever do? And what do all her colleagues do? They have repeatedly voted against our proposals to turn care into a public provision and to abolish or curb market forces in healthcare. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u70	We think that a lot of things in this system are not going well. People, for example, pay way too much money. There are billions of them stuck with the health insurance companies. We have already made a number of proposals to ensure that health insurers' reserves are returned to the public in the form of a lower premium. We have made a number of proposals to deal with this fraud. There's billions sticking around. All that money can be returned to the citizen in the form of a lower premium. It is very nice that the SP comes up with proposals to change the healthcare system, but it must be honest with the people to whom it asks which care system they want. Mr Van Gerven has just handed out his party's plan. I saw that a single person with an income above €30,000 is already going to pay more for the care than in this system. Only earners with an income above €60,000 are already going to pay more for their care. Mr Van Gerven says that the wealthy people are going to pay more, but he actually means that people are going to pay more for the care from one and a half times more. Those are the people who already pay a lot and they don't have a fat case, that's really disappointing. So we're not gonna go along with that. We are not going to make care more expensive for all those people; we want care for everyone cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u71	No, I'll tell Mrs. Klever through the chairman, you won't. You simply agree to the current system. Mrs Klever is right to say that 333 000 people are no longer able to pay for care at the moment. She is right to say that more than 800,000 people have to make payment arrangements. This is due to the fact that this care system is not in solidarity and that contributions are not income-dependent. That's the problem. The system is unnecessarily expensive. I refer to the expenditure on health commercials, advertising, and I know what: half a billion. I refer to the reserves of health insurers who do not know what to do about it. That depends on this system. I notice that the PVV is abandoning its supporters. However, it is very good that health insurers are not there to provide good care for the people, but that they are hired to organize and take care from the people as cheaply as possible. I note that the PVV is providing ample scope for this system, and that in two-thirds to three-quarters or even four-fifths of the cases it considers that there should be a different system and that there should be a different course of action. It would be a credit to Mrs Klever if she realised that and if, if we tabled motions, she were to think about a change of course. Care really has to go the other way: away from competition, from market forces and from the pursuit of profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u72	What Mr Van Gerven says is complete nonsense. He unites the discussion into a choice between one system or another. I can tell him that there is no ideal system. There are good points and points in each system that need to be addressed. If Mr Van Gerven had followed us over the past few years, he would have known that we would be putting forward proposals for improving the system in every debate. We come up with proposals in every debate to ensure that the premium goes down by tackling the fraud, bureaucracy and the profits and buffers of health insurers. I do not know what Mr Van Gerven wants to hear from me, but if there is a party standing up for her supporters then that is the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u73	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u74	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u75	Thank you. Mr De Lange has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u76	Mrs. Klever was done very quickly. Mrs. Agema quoted in her book that she is a dreamer. I would now like to look again at what Mrs Klever is dreaming of. She says that there are disadvantages to every healthcare system and she speaks of differences. Can she mention a country where, in her view, care is better regulated than in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u77	I can tell you what I do not like about the Dutch system and what I would like to improve on it. We have also made many proposals to this effect. I would like to list them again: to tackle fraud, to skim the health insurance reserves, to reduce medical care for asylum seekers, to mention just a few points. Every system has points that can be improved and we will not fail to raise these points. We hope for the support of the VVD to implement this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u78	I thank Mrs Klever for her clear answer. So she agrees with the VVD that we rely on the best healthcare system and that is the Dutch healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u79	I didn't say that. I don't know all the healthcare systems around the world. So I'm afraid to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr. Chairman. Last week, I was at a meeting where the director of the patients' association for cystic fibrosis spoke. This very professional CF patient association wanted to develop a doctor's hallmark, but what turned out to be? The doctors weren't waiting for that at all, because who would do the assessment for that label? The patient: "Let the patient judge me!'. Still, the idea was pushed through. So, what's going on? The label is there and medical specialists are now asking for the label. This example shows how valuable and important it is for patients to have their role as fully-fledged partners in healthcare, because they are the patients who need to be in healthcare. You can see a lot of people working enthusiastically in healthcare: patients and providers via blogs, new organisations, associations and social media. These are beautiful, innovative and sometimes even groundbreaking ideas, which should flourish. D66 wants innovative cooperation so that we can use the power of thought of pioneers. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is responsible for stimulating and stimulating these developments. The government must be binding and must create space. What role does the Minister see for himself in this regard? In the Quality Progress letter, the Minister mentions space for innovative contracts, but small, new, innovative healthcare providers are currently barely contracted. They have real difficulty in reaching agreement with the health insurance companies; often this is not the case at all. D66 calls on the Minister to give these small suppliers the opportunity to demonstrate their innovative added value for a few years. Health insurers also play an important role in this. My group believes that they too should consider how they can deal more flexibly with their role and give more room for innovative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u81	As a CDA, I share D66's view that it is important to promote innovation in healthcare. We really do have a lot of profit from that. Mrs Dijkstra is right to think it is very important that they get a contract and that if they do not get a contract, they can continue to do their job and stimulate innovation. The Minister still plans to introduce differentiated macro-control instruments. As a result, an innovative healthcare provider who does not get a contract, may run the risk of having to pay back everything he has earned. How does Mrs Dijkstra see this desire to promote innovation in relation to the Minister's desire to introduce differentiated macro-control instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u82	That is indeed very complex, because these cases are contradictory. I would also like a response from the Minister. You can sometimes imagine that health insurance companies have difficulty in concluding contracts with new providers, but I ask the Minister if she will see an opportunity to give new healthcare providers room to do their job, for example for two or three years. Then they can show what added value they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u83	Does this mean that D66 is against introducing differentiated macro-control tools?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u84	That's a little too fast for me. I am sure that will have to be done very well. I would be very sorry, therefore, to ask the Minister if this means that innovation is being destroyed. That's the last thing we want. So I would like to respond to the Minister's exciting role. An example of a beautiful innovative development is game technology. For example, surgeons can practice digital surgery with applied games, as it is called. Patients can recover themselves and the games can also contribute to compliance. D66 calls for more insight into the advantages and disadvantages of the games used, the game technology in the care, and therefore also into the applicability in practice. The Netherlands is leading in Dutch design. We could also be with health design, so Dutch health design. Can the Minister indicate how she intends to use this further, following the example of the Health Export Summit, both at home and abroad? We've seen it lately: ignorance can interfere with patients. This can lead to unnecessary care avoidance or much misunderstanding. Why isn't the physiotherapist being compensated for but surgery is? Only an informed patient can make an informed choice. Mrs Bouwmeester of the Labour Party has already mentioned this. D66 calls for a large-scale awareness campaign of care so that people understand what is in the basic package, how supplementary insurance works and which part is at their own risk. D66 would like attention to be paid to making the costs of care easier to understand. That turned out to be very useful this week. We've all seen that. However, not all insured persons face their care bill. I would like to know from the Minister what she is doing about it. The Minister argues in her budget to move from aftercare to precaution. However, a rough calculation on my part shows that less than 1% of the budget is spent on prevention. In what way does this prevention take shape? A good example of prevention is, for example, the population survey on familial hypercholesterolaemia. That's a genetic mutation. There are about 70,000 Dutch who suffer from this form of too high cholesterol in the blood. That's different than too much cholesterol from an unhealthy lifestyle. Until recently, the Netherlands did very successful DNA research with which these people could be tracked down early through their families. That's what's cut back. It's not happening anymore. You can see that very few people are identified now. D66 asks the Minister to restart this population survey so that people can be treated at an early stage. In the long term, this will save huge costs. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Women spend 10% more time in the hospital than men. They also die of a stroke rather than men. In addition, cardiovascular diseases have different symptoms in women than in men. Women react differently to drugs. If we want to provide appropriate and good care, we need to understand why these differences exist. In the media, the Minister has said that this is also very important. There is now a wonderful knowledge agenda in which themes, priorities and costs have been identified, but I do not see any money in the budget for this. I don't quite understand that, given the Minister's enthusiasm. When does it intend to launch the national knowledge programme? Does it want to invest in this long-term and substantial investment? More than six months ago, the minister asked the field to consider plastic surgery in the basic package. There's no plan yet, and as far as I can see, the minister hasn't taken back the direction. We have seen again in recent research how great the psychological consequences are if secondary sexual characteristics in transgenders are not compensated. I therefore call on the Minister to meet the small group in which plastic surgery is medically necessary. Medical professional secrecy is under pressure in youth care, in ggz and in general practitioners. Legally, health insurers have the right to look into patient files without explicitly informing the patient about this. For D66 access to a medical record is only permitted if there is prior consent from the patient himself. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Then I come to a few topics that are about medical ethics. In England, at the moment, I am only translating the 100,000-taken project into Dutch. This is a large-scale investigation to map the human DNA. This can provide knowledge of whether or not a medicine is working. It has been said earlier today: we are increasingly going to personal medication or "personalized medicine." This allows you to use medicines more focused and prevent unnecessary drug use and side effects. US President Obama stated this year that personalized medicines lay the foundation for a new generation of life-saving inventions. D66 considers its development to be very important. I would like to know from the Minister whether she sees possibilities for such DNA research in the Netherlands. Can that be rolled out here, too? We are talking about medicines with a price tag and a high price, but everyone agrees that medicines that are life-saving or can be shown to add quality of life should be available. The KWF has calculated that 300 million euros of additional medication will be spent next year. I do not see that in the budget. Does the Minister intend to take this to the hospitals? D66 has previously expressed concerns about appropriate psychosocial care for cancer patients. Although this should be part of the standard treatment, this is not always the case. My question is: what is the Minister doing about this? How can it ensure that health insurers do pay for this kind of care? Our health system is based on solidarity. In order to keep care available to everyone in the future, we need to make choices. With a limited budget, one treatment will be allowed at the expense of the other. However, how do we determine a limit to what treatment may cost? This is an extremely complex and sensitive issue. The Healthcare Institute has recently issued an opinion on this and calls for a legal anchoring of the criterion of cost-effectiveness. That plan is not new: in 2006 the Health and Health Council advised on this. Doctors ask for it, because this decision does not belong in the office and the KWF called for it in a report. The question is what this means for the cost of expensive medicines calculated by the pharmaceutical industry. My question to the Minister is therefore: how does it intend to shape things? Wouldn't it be important to involve doctors, ethicists, patient associations and health economists? Then I come to my final point. Another important issue in the medical-ethical field is life completed. A committee of wise men has been set up. I would like to know from the Minister when the conclusions of this committee will come. Can she address the initial findings of an investigation by NRC Handelsblad? A majority, including remarkably many doctors, see something in a final will pill. Many readers want to go beyond the law by providing help with suicide. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. Medical-ethical issues remain of great importance to my group. In the coalition agreement, the decision on the amendment of the Law on organ donation was left to the Chamber. Our initiative law makes this amendment possible and we hope to discuss it with the Chamber shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u85	The VVD has made an important point of deciding together as an integral part. How does D66 look at that? Does it also consider it important that this should be included in the directives and protocols?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u86	Yeah, that's extremely important. I have listened with great support to the VVD's speech and I absolutely share the need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u87	Mr. Chairman. D66 supports the objectives of reform: closer care, greater freedom of choice and scope for tailor-made work. D66 also wants care to remain affordable for future generations. In the field is worked with man and power to get everything done. However, we are concerned about the direction of all changes and the quality of implementation. I'm sketching two situations. The drama surrounding the pgb payments is still unsolved. Patients stoppages threaten because healthcare providers and health insurers together do not come out. We can conclude one thing after nine months, and that is that the objective of systems to humans has not yet been achieved. However, D66 is also a realistic party. Of course, it is a huge operation and transition and there is still a lot to do, but it would be a shame if the implementation continues to get stuck with the problems that exist today and we do not realize our ambitions, looking at the objectives of the law. We must not get in the way of the municipalities and give them the space they need. But the Secretary of State is system responsible and we think it is important that he takes up his role more and that he provides support and guidance where necessary. I'd better drop the door in the house with the pgb. 2015 was of course a disaster year for the personal budget. Although the payouts seem to be in order, 10,500 more people need to know if more money has been spent than, looking at their pgb, was actually allowed. There is also a lack of clarity as to whether the agreements can be concluded in good time. There is still a great deal of uncertainty about the budgets. ICT is not yet in place either. In the year of transparency, this Secretary of State is still not sending the CIO's opinion, the highest ICT officer of VWS, to the Chamber. When is he gonna do that? The Secretary of State is also responsible for the CAK, which is responsible for the invoices that people eventually receive. To the extent of disaster, the problems are also beginning to accumulate there. In September, 7,000 people had not yet received a letter on the amount of their own contribution, sometimes with retroactive effect until January 2015. This could involve hundreds or even thousands of euros. In addition, the CAK wonders whether it actually has all the people in the picture. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he's going to prevent a second pgb-drama at the CAK? I realise that Mrs Agema has requested a debate on this. In practice, we see clients being sent from the cabinet to the wall. Does this concern belong to the Youth Act? No. Maybe the Wmo? Absolutely not. Wlz? No way. Health Insurance Act? I don't think so either. It's a common conversation between clients and official agencies. It needs to be clarified which concern is covered by which law. D66 considers that the Secretary of State has a responsibility to provide that clarity to all parties. He is system responsible for all laws. I'd like a response. People don't fall under one law forever either. Due to changes in the disease or through age, they pass into other laws. It's important for D66 that the laws are in line. Earlier, we tabled an amendment to make a better connection between the Youth Act and the Wmo. Especially for the grey cases that do not fall into the exact picture of the law, there is too much uncertainty. I am surprised that the Secretary of State has shown so little to resolve that ambiguity. I'd like a response. Recently, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau showed that there are still perverse incentives in the laws. Let me give you two examples. It is now more attractive to get community care within the Health Insurance Act than Wlz-zorg. Why? Because you do not have to pay your own contribution at community care. For a simple help with the showering, this can quickly go at €300 per week. Is the Secretary of State prepared to undertake serious research into these transfer options and to see how they can be prevented or reduced? Innovation costs money. Domotics can support people to stay home longer, something we want. But municipalities not only bear the cost of home automation, but also the longer-lived clients. D66 believes that municipalities should also benefit from the benefits. Can the Secretary of State state state if he sees any possibilities for this? When a child with multiple disabilities becomes 18 years of age, a lot of legal issues have to be settled. For example, multiple forms of legal representation should be chosen. How complex all this is, we could read in the very beautiful book Brigitte van Guido Bindels. The book is mainly about the love for his daughter, but also about the frustrations he gets with our care system. D66 considers it important that the government informs parents in good time about what changes when a child turns 18. That's a lot and you don't want to be surprised by that. Can the Secretary of State ensure that this information takes place in a comprehensive and timely manner? My group would be very pleased with that. In this debate there is a strong emphasis on nursing homes. That is right, and it is very good that this Secretary of State has made it a spearhead to improve quality in nursing homes. I think it can be written on its conto if that works. However, we also have the disabled sector. I think there is too little emphasis on this sector. I ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with me that it is important that this sector should also pay sufficient attention to quality and innovation. I know that Mr Otwin van Dijk of the PvdA has previously called for this attention. I think it would be a good idea for us to stick together in this. I'm here to re-indicate the subject. The CIS is currently re-indication for the year 2017, but 2016 is a transition year, and the customised profiles are not yet available. How then is it that there is already a re-indication in a year, although there is still so much uncertainty about the customised profiles? Don't we worry parents unnecessarily? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Now I would like to pay attention to an idea by Mr Van Gerven and myself. Older people want and can live at home for longer and longer, a beautiful development that can only be achieved if these older people are given the right support. We may disagree on the first introduction, I say to Mr Van Gerven of the SP, but not on the solution that we have both found. Recently, Movision said that there is little coherence in the care network for the elderly, while in our society we have set up an oiled infrastructure for the youngest. In the municipality of Losser in Twente they started their own work, and there is a consultative office for the elderly. There older people can contact us with all kinds of questions about prevention and for information, guidance, meal advice etc. That's a very nice initiative. D66 and the SP consider it important for municipalities to be supported in the roll-out of such beautiful examples and similar experiments. We think it is important that these fine examples should also be given attention and greater awareness, and that knowledge should be exchanged. We also think it is important that municipalities are facilitated in order to get to work on this. I hope for a positive response from the Secretary of State; otherwise we will consider a motion for a resolution on this matter. As far as nursing care is concerned, I agree with the discussion that has taken place. There's extra money going to nursing care, and I think that's very good. We in the D66 Group also consider it important for people themselves to be given the freedom of choice to decide what they want to do with that money. This depends very much on the individual choice. Maybe you want to go to the café or you want to do another form of daily spending; it's very varied what people want. I think the freedom of choice is important. I wonder how the Secretary of State can get this settled in the execution. I also agree with Mrs Emperor that it should not be complicated, with all kinds of separate rules. I'm going on to a number of final topics, first of all client support. We're getting signals that the independent client support isn't working out yet. We would like this to be settled; we have also dealt with this with an amendment. I'm gonna close with the subject of drugs. After two years, the Secretary of State's drug vision came in at five to twelve. I remember asking for it two years ago in the budget debate. We are pleased that there is now a vision, and we will have a separate general discussion on this. I do ask the Secretary of State one specific question for this budget discussion. We would like to have more insight into the possible shift from alcohol to drug use among young people, looking at the increase in alcohol age. This shift was also reflected in an inventory of a BNN youth panel. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this in consultation with the young people, and to involve this in the evaluation of the Drinking and Horeca Act? Together with the VVD, D66 tabled an amendment to this effect. Does the Secretary of State wish to include this particular issue in this evaluation? Finally, I realise that we are in the process of making a very big change in care. There are fine examples, and we have to share them. There is also a lot of uncertainty, and it is still way too complex for a lot of people. We also see a number of major problems in implementation. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State the following question. We have mentioned all kinds of themes for next year, but how can we make next year the year of simplicity? It seems to me right, looking at all the problems at the moment with people being sent from the locker to the wall, that it is all somewhat simple and that the care money ends up in care and not in all kinds of bureaucracies and administrative rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u88	I have one more question for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. When I read the annex to the third progress report, I was rather shocked. I read that there are people with intellectual disabilities, people withzzp 4, who go to the Wmo after their 18th birthday, because there would be a temporary need to live protected. Does the D66 group also believe that the law should not be interpreted in such a way that people with VG4 who have turned 18 this year always go to the Wmo? You're talking about a death home construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u89	I think this is a legitimate subject for Mrs Keijzer. I think it is important that people do not temporarily end up in a transition situation. These kids shouldn't be in the Wmo, when they might belong in the Wlz. That is also my appeal to the Secretary of State: make sure that these children are not moaned, that there is no lugging between the different laws. I think it's important that the young people end up where they belong. If that's the Wlz, they're gonna have to get there. If it's the Wmo, they have to get into the Wmo. I think we should look at customization for these young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u90	I welcome the words that there should be no bullshit with the young people. However, when you say "customisation," you should always refer to it as "legal certainty." This is listening very closely. The underlying HHM report on the 18-minners who had an AWBZ indication does not contain the VG4 indication at all. When I suddenly read that in some cases that group is only eligible for the Wmo, I am alarmed. Hence all my questions. If we have the answers tomorrow, everyone should read them carefully and see if this is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u91	I agree with Mrs Keijzer's appeal. I was also glad that we would step away from the discussions about thezzp and the idea that people should be put in one booth. I think it's important to deliver customization for these kids, so they get the care they need. I look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State to Mrs Keijzer's questions and to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u92	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, the Christian Union had its annual open day in this beautiful building of the House of Representatives. It was really a party to be here, especially because there was a group of people with disabilities present. How good it was to talk to them about inclusive society: a society in which everyone, with or without visible limitations, feels valuable and welcome. It seems so obvious, but it is not always the case. We're getting up! is an initiative that pushes politics with the noses on the facts. Soon the VWS committee will be talking to the initiators. Hopefully, we will soon ratify the UN Disability Convention. The Netherlands has really stalled long enough. Our country has a very high level of health care and medical developments are still continuing. For example, children with spina bifida can already be operated on in the womb. It is good that these operations, which are carried out in Belgium, are now also being reimbursed in the Netherlands. Prenatal screening is also being used more and more frequently. However, this also has a downside. We burden parents with an incredibly complicated choice when they learn that their child has Down syndrome. That is why my group considers fair information and good guidance to be important. What does prenatal testing mean for the inclusive society that we want to be? Last Saturday, one of my guests at the open day said it this way: stop calling the NIPT the Downtest. The name of this test is so stigmatizing. Can the Minister explain how she will prevent that stigma? More knowledge has led to a significant improvement in the life expectancy of children with Down syndrome. A multidisciplinary directive on the medical supervision of children with Down syndrome has been amended several years ago. This has been of great importance for improving care for children with Down syndrome. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, there should also be a multidisciplinary directive on the medical supervision of adults with Down syndrome. Because of the lack of money, it has not been achieved so far, despite a long-standing wish of the doctors. A multidisciplinary directive could provide for cooperation between ophthalmologist, ENT, psychologist, dietician, and physician for the mentally handicapped. My group has tabled an amendment to this effect. I hope, of course, for support from the Cabinet and the Chamber. Teenage mothers are vulnerable and their care deserves special attention. Is there a nationwide coverage network for helping teenage mothers and can they also agree with this offer of help? Is this aid sufficiently bought in by municipalities? Teenage mothers often run into very practical problems. Due to their age, they are often not entitled to all kinds of supplements. There is a real need for tailor-made care, education, work and housing. Does the Secretary of State intend to make an effort to do so as director? I am thinking of above-regional agreements on specialist assistance, combinations of outpatient care and care, linking education to parenthood and also to housing issues. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. We cannot reverse the large number of suicides, while in theory we can do so with a zero suicide mindset. Due to the large demand for help at 113Online too many phone calls are answered too late or not. Of course you can't. There's been a letter. My group has read it. I also understand that there is another discussion about this letter and the measures proposed by the cabinet. However, to be safe, my group has tabled an amendment. Of course, we will be well informed about the outcome of the discussion, in order to determine whether we will eventually put this amendment to the vote. The amendment is not only for the capacity of 113Online, but also for the development of the Suicide Prevention Action Network (Supranet). This week the campaign for a smoke-free generation started. If you consider that every day 100 children start smoking, this campaign is very much needed. Children deserve to grow up without tobacco and without the temptation to start smoking. We can't do this without non-smoking schoolyards. Unfortunately, a motion from the PvdA and Christian Union has been rejected, but the Secretary of State has promised that he will talk to his colleague from OCW to see what possibilities still exist to move schools much faster to introduce those smoke-free shock areas. What's the status? Of course, today we also want to consider reforms and decentralisations. The year 2015 is a transitional year. Next year it will be clear how the decentralisations actually landed. There's still a lot to improve. The pgb is not accessible everywhere or sufficient. Does the Secretary of State know how he is going to carry out the adopted motions to reflect why health insurers and municipalities are so reluctant to grant a pgb? It can't be that people only get access to a pgb after a court ruling. People are now being sent from the locker to the wall and there is an overkill of administrative burdens for care institutions. I am despondent from the conversations with healthcare organisations telling me that they need extra staff to get through the red tape. I thought we were going from systems to people. If I've understood one thing from my guests on the open day last Saturday, that's not the paperwork, but they deserve more attention. They want to be seen. They want a nice place to live and a real job, because they have talents. I come to speak on a very different subject. The helm is about; after a lot of trouble, the GPs have managed to shift the focus from registration and administrative burdens to more space for cooperation and more quality of care. But does each profession now have to manifest itself separately or have the general practitioners broken a lance for the whole first line? I hope the latter and look forward to the results of the investigation following the motion of the SP and Christian Union. Accountability is, of course, necessary in advance and afterwards, because it is a question of public resources, but please do not let us drive each other crazy. Fortunately, the letter on how to deal with regulatory burdens and administrative burdens provides many points of departure. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this also includes a new annual motto. Let 2016 be the year of trust. It is special, because today I heard the SGP talk about the year of freedom of choice and D66 about the year of simplicity. I'm very curious to know what the Minister's choice is. I come now to nutrition in the care. I was at work at the Radboud UMC, where a former cancer patient introduced a new food concept because the usual industrial products are not satisfactory. All I have to do is point out the offer on Marketplace. The result is fantastic. A timely dietary intervention accelerates recovery and reduces complications. How can we tempt all hospitals to integrate nutrition into their policies? It is now a year after the motion I tabled together with Mrs Bouwmeester. That's not the kind of work an inventory is, is it? It's time to see results now. Is the Minister prepared to identify whether funding and insurance are in the way of a broader roll-out? Will she ask for advice from the Zorginstituut Nederland? I'm considering a motion on this point. Whose care is ours? Not from health insurers or institutions, but from people. A motion of the Christian Union has been adopted in both the Second and First Chambers to legally anchor the cooperative role of health insurers. Next year, the Minister will come forward with her bill and I look forward to it. Can the Minister state what her plans are? I would particularly like to draw attention to the knowledge of client organisations and the position of member councils. Is the Minister prepared to ensure, in further shaping the legislative proposal, that the members' councils have real influence, that they have control and that they are also facilitated, for example in the form of financial support? They must also be truly independent, a lie in the fur of the health insurance companies. On this point, too, my group is considering a motion. Anne-Mei The said about dementia very strikingly: a medicine is not in sight, so you better make the best of it, and that is a dementia-friendly society. We know that the Secretary of State made a trip to Japan for this. Meanwhile, in the Netherlands, the position of the case manager dementia is still far from being properly secured. Whether you have Yakult drinks in Japan or Nutricia in the Netherlands, it is much more important that people can continue to eat as long as possible according to the usual diet they always had. Efforts should be focused on this. I would much rather mention the example of the grocery store in Doorn that guides employees to recognise dementia well and to deal with it properly. A life with dementia is also a valuable life that deserves our care and attention. I look forward to further discussions with the Secretary of State on this matter. I welcome a lot of positive news about palliative care. The subsidy scheme for the palliative care networks remains in place and the importance of voluntary palliative care is recognised. It is now important to continue developing a nationwide network of regional palliative care networks and raising quality standards. Still, things aren't always going well. Palliative terminal home care is not sufficiently purchased by health insurance companies, so people cannot die at home. Mental care is also not reimbursed. My group has put questions to Parliament on this matter with SGP and CDA. The Secretary of State also welcomes the local networks for the elderly and the senses that arise throughout the country. In what way will he support these networks? I now come to the final subject. "Euthanasia? We'll take care of that," said the headline of a newspaper article last weekend. Once the knot has been cut within a family, a doctor has to take care of it, but it is precisely the doctors who are increasingly telling us that they do not agree with current practice. They are not against euthanasia, but against the expectations of patients and their families. In this context, I refer to research carried out by the KNMG. Euthanasia is not a right and the answer to a request for euthanasia may very well be "no', but when I read the first articles on the results of the survey, I fear that our society will accept this less and less. However, euthanasia is not just a medical act. Doctors who struggle with this, especially in non-terminal patients, refer to the Life End Clinic, which, as far as I am concerned, has been established far too quickly. I regret to note that in our society there is an incorrect perception of euthanasia. Euthanasia is not a right, but it protects doctors. How's the Minister gonna fix this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u93	Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union says that the Life End Clinic has been established far too quickly. Is it aware of the fact that the Life End Clinic carries out euthanasia according to existing legislation and the criteria that apply to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u94	Yeah, I'm aware of that. However, I can also see that complex requests for euthanasia are coming into the Life-End Clinic, which tends to balance on the edge of the law and also unleash a lot of social debate. We have discussed this with each other a number of times. The Life End Clinic is here. Let us just make sure that euthanasia is always carried out within the boundaries of the law, even with the existence of the Life End Clinic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u95	I do not understand Mrs Dik-Faber's comments on the End of Life Clinic. She's talking about "on the edge of the law" and now it's "within the edges of the law" again. The Life End Clinic performs euthanasia according to the applicable criteria. As with any doctor applying euthanasia, the review committee shall carry out an ex post evaluation. I think the suggestion that this is being dealt with in an unorderly manner is quite a lot to me. I ask Mrs Dik-Faber to fully acknowledge that the end of life clinic can do what it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u96	In my speech, I did not say that there was any disorderly action. I told you, as far as I'm concerned, the Life End Clinic is too fast established. I'm gonna head all the way back to base. I see now that doctors are struggling with a number of forms of euthanasia applications. They're being sent to the Life End Clinic. In this way the complex situations end up on the sign of the Life End Clinic. I also see that review committees are calling and asking: is this what we have meant with each other? We will simply have to continue to have this social debate with each other. That's actually all I've said. As far as I'm concerned, that Life End Clinic is too fast-tracked. D66 and the Christian Union may have a different perception of euthanasia. Actually, I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u97	Mrs Dijkstra asked a very clear question. I think it would be good for the debate if there were a response to that. The Life End Clinic acts within the framework of the law. Is Mrs Dik-Faber also of the opinion that the Life End Clinic should simply do so, that is possible and possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u98	I see the Life End Clinic operates within the framework of the law. There has, of course, been criticism from the review committees. Let us establish this with each other for a moment. Many euthanasia requests are also refused by the Life End Clinic, because they do not fall within the framework of the law. What I have trouble with is that there is no treatment relationship at the End of Life Clinic. People come to the Life End Clinic after a doctor has rejected them, a doctor who probably had a treatment relationship with a patient and also had reason to reject the request. Then the Life End Clinic comes into view and there are actually only two options: either the request is granted or the request is rejected. That's what's really bothering me at the Life End Clinic. There is an act within the framework of the law, but without a clear treatment relationship. I find that problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u99	I respect the Christian Union's view of this. However, it is important to state very clearly that the Life-End Clinic has been given an important position, that it is therefore valuable and that what it is doing is simply within the legal frameworks that we have agreed with each other in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u100	The Life End Clinic rejects and grants. That falls within the framework of the euthanasia law. My group sees that that law currently exists. We'll never be a fan of it. I think it is a little too much to ask the Christian Union to say that the end of life clinic is valuable. That can't be asked of me. However, let us continue to work together to ensure that all euthanasia applications are carefully carried out within the framework of the law with the existence of the Life End Clinic. We are perhaps going to talk much more about this at other times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u101	I'm sure you will. Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u102	I'm rounding up. I started my speech with the inclusive society, which we all want. For the Christian Union, that means that every human being can be there and is valuable, regardless of limitations or defects. My question is whether the pressure on prenatal screening and the increased number of euthanasia requests do not show that our society is becoming less inclusive and that we are increasingly struggling to deal with suffering, disability or old age. I would like to see the Minister and the Secretary of State reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a compliment, because yesterday it was announced that after 70 years agreement was finally reached between the Cabinet and the Indian Platform on the backpay issue. I really think that is worth a compliment to the Secretary of State, because people who have waited so long for justice now feel that they have. On October 5th it was a celebration, because the pgb existed for twenty years. In a beautiful hall in Zeist...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u104	Apologies. Mrs Bouwmeester would very much like to ask a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u105	Mrs Voortman made a very valuable comment on the Indian issue, which has been discussed for many years. I think it is important for Mrs Voortman to emphasise this and congratulate the Secretary of State, because it has been very complicated for many years and they have said that we are coming out of it together. So I would like to emphasise how important I think it is that Mrs Voortman here should be the first to express that compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u106	Thanks for agreeing. In a beautiful... now everyone probably wants to join me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u107	Mrs. Agema does want to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u108	We thought we would soon do so in the second term of the debate, but all the recognition for the Secretary of State for having managed to bring this difficult dossier to an end that both parties are satisfied with. That's very handsome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u109	Then you may now try again to begin, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u110	It is good that the Secretary of State has succeeded in what previous Cabinets have failed. In a beautiful hall in Zeist many budget holders came together to celebrate the existence of the pgb for twenty years, but it was noticeable that something is sudding and that many pgb-holders are worried. 'Cause was there any reason for a party? In recent years, the personal budget has been plagued by disaster. This Secretary of State would make the personal budget more robust than ever, but nothing is less true. Last year it seemed more likely than ever to be at risk. Budget holders were in uncertainty about the decision about their indication and whether their care is properly included in the different laws, caregivers had to wait a long time to pay their wages, and the Secretary of State had his agenda full of administrative consultation and went to debate in the Chamber. For the minister too, last year did not start nicely with the beaching of her law to restrict Article 13, the choice of free doctors, but something seems to change in her attitude. In an interrupting debate during last year's budget discussion with Corinne Ellemeet, who replaced me during my maternity leave, the Minister pointed out that not the health insurers are too dominant but the healthcare providers. But recently she concluded an agreement with general practitioners to bring their position more into balance with the health insurance companies. I welcome this moving insight, but why did it have to come to this first? Where the proposals of these directors are increasingly supported by the statement that they should contribute to greater confidence in care, better relations and more tailor-made work, it seems that mistrust and institutionalisation are increasingly emerging. I see, on the contrary, that patients are increasingly perceived as consumers who would like to get as much out of their policies as possible and whose demand for care should be slowed down, and that caregivers are increasingly being viewed as if they were only looking to increase their income, to achieve profits. Although in word more confidence, more customization, more direction and more space for caregivers are central, this is unfortunately not evident from practice. Let me give you some examples. The personal budget will soon be anchored in three laws, but what is worth if insurers make access ever stricter and discourage different municipalities from using it? General practitioners will be given more space. At the same time, medical professional secrecy is at stake in this minister, because the fight against fraud would be a matter of professional secrecy for her. The bill to restrict the free choice of doctors and the position of uncontracted providers is replaced by a new bill, which still puts uncontracted healthcare providers in a bad light and behind schedule. The autonomy of healthcare providers has also been increasingly replaced by a registration obligation and minute registration. Trusting the professional has nothing to do with that. In fact, the decentralisation of care providers has led to a considerable increase in bureaucracy, because each municipality makes its own demands and requires its own information. Good care falls or stands with confidence, but despite fine words and good intentions, mistrust seems to be increasingly central. I'd like to hear from the rulers how they look at this. I have divided my line into three areas: prevention, decentralisation and medical care for asylum seekers. Around prevention, there is a particular reference to the impossibility of the Central Planning Office to pass on the results of investment in prevention. That is a purely economic approach. I regret that there is so little attention to the value of prevention and preventive care in itself. Investment by cabinet and health insurance companies in prevention is lagging behind. I believe that much can be achieved with more and more active commitment to prevention. With the right measures people can live in good health for more years and health differences can be reduced, after which quality also increases. Then, as a government, you must show yourself to be a reliable partner and send a signal that you really mean it with prevention. Is the Minister prepared to examine the possibility of setting up a prevention fund to cover 1% of the premium income? Is the Minister prepared to look at the Netherlands in consultation with healthcare insurers to see if and how such a fund can be set up? Where people and children are informed about a good lifestyle, I think we should also be able to trust that this information is given objectively, correctly and without any further intention. Activities should also be really focused on getting acquainted with and exciting for healthy food and sufficient movement. The joy in that should be paramount, not the maximisation of profits or other commercial interests. I find the way in which children are approached by the food industry to limit manipulation. The Secretary of State relies on regulation by the sector itself, but I think there should be clear limits. There are quite a few examples of direct or indirect sponsorship, such as Blue Band's children's lubrication certificate. Or like the games, puzzles and coloring books, in which clearly advertising is hidden. The cabinet also contributes to this, because I understand that the food industry can only pay for its activities if it has received a subsidy. The Secretary of State has indicated to the Alliance Stop child marketing to be in conversation. I'd like to hear from him about that conversation. Is he willing to join the alliance's principles, like VVD Alderman Eric van der Burg? Is he prepared to come up with an action plan to reduce child marketing, for example by no longer granting subsidies to activities co-financed by the food industry and by banning advertising? From the food industry with its lack of confidence, I go to another industry, the pharmaceutical industry. The Minister has indicated that the price of expensive medicines will be an important issue in the coming year. I welcome that, of course. But is she also willing to investigate the possibilities and revenues if the Dutch State were to take over the purchase of medicines? You also get confidence by allowing people to participate fully in society. For an inclusive society, I think it is important that sports for people with disabilities within the sports federations should also be given sufficient space. That's why I was shocked when I heard that the hockey league had decided to quit the successful national wheelchair hockey team. I think that's a bad harbinger. I hope this will not be followed by other unions. I would like to keep in touch with the progress of the talks that the Ministry has with hockey federation and wheelchair hockey players, and I would like to hear if the Minister is prepared to see how it can contribute to ensuring wheelchair hockey in the future. I am considering tabling an amendment on this. I actually think that, because it is such a small amount, namely €50,000, it should still be possible to settle that. I come to speak about the decentralisations. The intentions of decentralisation are good: care close to people organized, more tailor-made and more mutual trust. Unfortunately, not people but systems and, above all, austerity have been at the centre of decentralisation. For the time being, therefore, the opposite seems to be achieved. Providers are burdened by the bureaucracy by a multitude of municipalities with which they maintain contact and which each have their own system, their own requirements and their own billing. Many pgb holders are in uncertainty because the re-indication remains out. The number of lawsuits in healthcare has increased dramatically, all because of the haste and the emphasis on austerity. I regret that people who need care and those who care will suffer. The cabinet introduces a household aid allowance so that fewer carers would lose their jobs and more people would receive household care. Can the Secretary of State say more about the scope and use of this arrangement? Does he want to give municipalities more freedom in spending this budget? The CBS estimated that 65,000 jobs in care have been lost in recent years. Even more are on the road. Healthcare providers do not dare to rely on new contract rounds and therefore do not dare to give permanent contracts, partly because of the Work and Security Act. What can the Secretary of State do to encourage municipalities to conclude long-term contracts? This also strengthens people's job security. In addition, I am getting more and more signals that decentralisation has increased the uncertainty and workload of caregivers. I hear from healthcare workers that after decentralisation, the workload and uncertainty about the institution's own job or future have increased, and that this means that they see more colleagues falling out and fear being burned out themselves. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate that? I come to the medical care of asylum seekers. Also for people who have fled to the Netherlands, they must be able to rely on good care and their trust in the provision of care is also necessary to prevent more or more expensive care. It is therefore necessary for them to be informed quickly after arrival so that, when they need care, they can find their own way in this and know what the possibilities are. Unfortunately, many people who have fled to the Netherlands will see several crisis shelters before they get a more permanent place in an azc. I wonder what this means for the quality of care for these people and for the continuity of care. Can the Minister say more about this from the point of view of her responsibility? Is there a warm transfer of care? For example, how quickly do adults and children get access to mental health care? I believe that, in view of the large group of war traumas, this concern should also be easily accessible from the outset. I understand that status holders will not be able to secure themselves until they have a home. Unfortunately, many of them stay in an azc for a long time while they already have a status. If they find a home within four months, they will be confronted with an account to pay the premium retroactively until they have been granted a status. Regardless of whether this is desirable, this means that double premium was paid during the stay in the azc and the COA and later retroactively by the status holders. I don't think that's the idea. I would like the Minister to confirm that anyone who pays the premium, regardless of whether it is someone with a Dutch passport or a status holder, should have the same access to medical care. The VVD wants to call 2016 for the year of trust and regulation reduction. As far as I am concerned, this is the starting point that should always apply to care, not just in 2016. I assume the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u111	Madam President. 319 pages counts this year's VWS budget. 319 pages of policy, intentions, figures and statements. Let us not forget that many human stories are hidden behind this. I have noticed that it is not for nothing that so many colleagues started their contribution with such a personal story. They are stories about people's health, their well-being and their quality of life. It's all these personal stories we're talking about today. Next year, people at home will have to really see the improvements in care, as the budget says. Caregivers need to become increasingly aware that they are given room for manoeuvre in the performance of their work. In the past year 50PLUS has received so many opposite signals about this that we do not want to put our hands in the fire. The role of health insurers, who have more and more opportunities, is being praised for being able to choose more and more and more. The health insurance companies now have more freedom of choice than the people at home. That doesn't satisfy 50PLUS. Further steps will have to be taken next year to ensure that healthcare expenditure is kept under permanent control. That is one of the objectives of this cabinet. Knowing this cabinet, I think that's where the crux is. Several health insurance companies have recently decided to take the medication assessment out of their own risk. That is a first good step, because it must not be the case that people for this reason refrain from such an assessment or postpone it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u112	The KNMP has called on all health insurance companies to do the same. Is the Minister prepared to support this call? Does she agree with 50PLUS that a medication assessment contributes to preventing unnecessarily high medication use? Is the Minister prepared to actively highlight the possibility of a medication assessment, for example through a campaign? What are the preliminary results of the enforcement of the IGZ on this point? The government website indicates that the supply of prevention activities targeted at older people is highly fragmented. Also, little is known about its range and effects. This is a missed opportunity, precisely because the government itself identifies prevention as one of the most important objectives. Why? Is the Minister prepared to draw up a prevention note aimed at the elderly with specific objectives? Is she prepared to make a budget for this? 50PLUS would like to help with this by tabling an amendment. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Earlier, 50PLUS asked for specific measures to combat excessive alcohol consumption among the elderly. The Trimbos Institute came back with alarming figures this summer. A report of resources and measures has already been promised. When can we expect it? In addition, 50PLUS receives signals about increasing addiction behaviour among older people. That is risky, given that according to the Elder Fund about 1 million people over 55 feel lonely. With the rise in age, mobility can decrease, the social network becomes smaller and people may fall earlier to this type of behaviour. How does the Secretary of State see the connection between loneliness and addiction behaviour? Does he see any reason to take more action? Recently, 50PLUS has heard many positive developments about vaccination of the elderly against pneumonia and shingles. Thanks and compliments to the Minister for her commitment. 50PLUS has noticed that this dossier has absolutely got its attention. We would, of course, like to go a step further. From this year on, the expenditure of the National vaccination programme is structurally lower than planned. Has this saving been considered for vaccination of the elderly? 50PLUS shall, if necessary, submit an amendment to reserve the corresponding amount pending the opinion of the Health Council. Good dental care is essential. It's often undersized for the elderly in a care facility. The Health Inspectorate has already noted this last year, but the reports continue to go round. In addition, the Dutch Dentists Association was the emergency clock a few weeks ago. More and more elderly people living at home don't go to the dentist. Does the Secretary of State have an insight into the causes of this? As early as November last year, the Secretary of State took action in response to the IGZ report. He then announced a letter describing intervention and initiatives in this area, including care outside an institution. That's very good, but I haven't seen that letter yet. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send this letter to the Chamber soon? What does the Secretary of State think of the idea of collectively financing oral care for the elderly with a Wlz indication, as is the case with youth care? What does he think of the idea of drawing up an action plan to improve oral care for the elderly with a Wlz or Wmo indication? Last May, 50PLUS asked oral questions about the fact that many vulnerable elderly people remain in the hospital unnecessarily long because there is no suitable place elsewhere, with all the consequences. The Secretary of State promised to take action quickly and reported on this in the progress report. One of the problems was a slow handling by the CIZ. 50PLUS is pleased that the Secretary of State has organised a discussion between transfer care, the Dutch Association of Hospitals and the CIZ in order to reach a rapid settlement in joint consultation. Can the Secretary of State indicate the progress of this? Has a measurable result obligation been formulated? If not, is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Is he prepared to include that by 1 April 2016 all indications of follow-up care for vulnerable elderly persons should be delivered from the hospital within 48 hours? We are pleased to receive a response on this point. In June of this year research by Maastricht University showed that nursing home residents move very little. In any case, this is a risk for vulnerable elderly people, in which mobility is already a focus of attention. In health care institutions, attention is not always paid to this. That is not to blame the health care institutions. The researchers have received funding to develop a plan to tackle this problem. Can the Secretary of State tell us what this plan includes? When will the Chamber hear more about this? What role does the Secretary of State see for himself? We all know that older people live longer on their own because they want to, but also because they have to live with the government. The import problems surrounding the laws which entered into force on 1 January this year are well known. Even though the Secretary of State calls the transition controlled, there have been plenty of problems. Not for nothing there are lawsuits about domestic care. In Lochem, a soil procedure has even started. It is too crazy for words that so many municipalities have broken the law in such a way that the needy are forced to make their way to court. The Empire is entitled to charge for this, given the considerable task assigned to the municipalities. There are also many problems in the area of house adjustments. Several municipalities do not even compensate for these adjustments, or the conditions are so strict that they fall outside the limits of the law. There is hardly any question of customization. There is also a considerable shortage of suitable homes for people with a care question. More and more health care institutions are putting a stop to care services, even in patients who need terminal care, as it turned out last week, others have already mentioned this because the healthcare authorities are already through the budget for this year. The Secretary of State points out the obligation of care of insurers and the provider's own responsibility. He has already said that he will not add any money. But Zorgverzekerings Nederland and ActiZ indicate that there really isn't enough money. Only in the first quarter of next year will the figures be published. However, it is not a question of how much is needed. What consequences does shifting between providers have for the client's freedom of choice? In addition, care institutions face unexpectedly high risks, as 5% of the excess is the responsibility of the healthcare provider. According to the organisation Branch interest Thuiszorg Nederland (BTN), this is even 5% of total turnover. Is this true? The organisations had already received a substantial tariff discount for their choice. BTN says that 80% of healthcare organisations would go bankrupt within two years under unchanged policies. Shorts on institution care and at the same time on care at home had to go wrong somewhere and that is what is happening. I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State if they agree with us. Do they also see that their goal of achieving noticeable improvements for everyone in 2016 is unfortunately far from in sight? Following a motion of 50PLUS, the Secretary of State promised that the detailed financial development and coverage of the nursing home plan Dignity and pride would be worked out in the budget. That was done, but briefly in the form of an envelope. Answers to factual questions say that it is only at a later stage that it becomes clear exactly how the resources are used. Can the Secretary of State give a closer look at the work he has done and the arrangements he has made on this matter? What about the extra resources for day-to-day activities, or the infamous hour of attention? Is the amount of 80 million mentioned in the media earmarked added to the nursing home budget? Is the money really going to end up with the elderly? In this context, we wholeheartedly endorse Mr Van Dijk's plea of the Labour Party asking for the extra money to be used demonstrably for these purposes. The same applies to incentives for training. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The rudder is changing. That was the hopeful title of a letter sent by the Minister following the manifesto signed by an astonishingly high number of general practitioners. However, 50PLUS continues to worry about the increased workload of the general practitioner. Due to the increasing number of residential residents with a care question, the number of more severe patients of general practitioners is increasing. For example, more than three quarters indicate that there is insufficient time to care for elderly people living at home with a heavy care demand. I would like to hear a response with solutions to this problem. In an almost Chamberwide motion, 50PLUS asked for a social debate on the boundaries of care and care costs. The Minister announced that he would return to this subject before the summer of 2016. Is there anything else she can say? 50PLUS would really like it if we could do that sooner. Thanks to another 50PLUS motion, IGZ has been asked to include medication safety as a spearhead in the new multi-annual policy plan. The IGZ has announced that they will do so. That is good, but the request focused on the medication safety of vulnerable elderly people. Does the IGZ take sufficient account of this? 50PLUS expresses its concern about the legality of hospital expenditure. The General Court stated this spring that the legality of part of hospital expenditure over the years 2012 and 2013 cannot be established. This is also likely to be the case for 2014 and 2015. That is worrying, because it is a huge amount of money. I would like to express my appreciation for the increasing number of hospitals that are pursuing senior-friendly policies and ask the Minister if she is prepared to continue to encourage hospitals to do so. In addition, this week we read in the AD that clients often don't get the medical devices they need. This is because insurers do not reimburse all available tools, but select by price. Here too, of course, you have to look at what can be cheaper, but people don't need a tool for nothing. It cannot be the case that people who, for any reason, need a more expensive tool do not get it from their health insurance provider for only financial reasons. I'd like a response. Participation society is driven by carers. Without their important and unrelenting loving care, we are nowhere. But there are limits for them too. Many older people take care of their sick partner at home, for example their dementing husband or wife. The burden on the caregiver increases because people with a care demand only later qualify for a place in an institution. Grace and care support vary from one municipality to another. 50PLUS notes that, in the context of family care, funding is mainly made available to organisations such as Mezzo. That's not enough. However important, 50PLUS wants more to be reserved for direct support for carers and therefore she is considering an amendment to allocate additional resources to day-to-day spending and retirement care for elderly people living at home. In the progress report reform long-term care, the Secretary of State states that it is difficult to establish a national scheme for financial support for carers. The various local possibilities are referred to. Mezzo indicates on its website that the new tax system offers opportunities for carers. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this with Mezzo and his colleague in the Treasury? The household allowance may be a textbook example of a knife cutting on both sides. On the one hand, people can buy cheaper domestic aid; on the other hand, more jobs remain for the employees concerned, less than initially promised. This arrangement is now running a little better, but the maximum is far from being achieved. After the HHT was hardly working, a number of conditions were relaxed at the beginning of this year. But unfortunately the reduction of the own contribution and some other measures only apply for this year 2015. Afterwards, the maximum own contribution goes up to €17.50. Just to be clear, how high is the minimum own contribution in 2016? Is it not counterproductive to increase the own contribution after a temporary reduction? Wouldn't this mean that people would have to stop their domestic help and lose their jobs? The pgb issue has already been discussed extensively here. I would also like to talk about digitalisation. This can bring care closer and faster to the patient and provide significant savings. Not for nothing do these rulers also have increasing attention to eHealth and things like home automation. 50PLUS welcomes the proposals as expressed this morning by VVD colleague De Lange. Young people hardly have to cross the line, because they are not used to it. The current generation of older people often needs to be encouraged. Therefore, 50PLUS proposes to make Wi-Fi available free of charge in all senior complexes and healthcare institutions. How does the government feel about this? Does it see possibilities for this? I would also like to say that I welcome the solution found by the Secretary of State for a back pay to civil servants and soldiers employed by the Dutch-Indian Government during the Japanese occupation. Compliments for this, but I do hope for a quick finish, preferably this year. Finally, I would like to thank from the bottom of my heart all the staff in the care and all the carers who are ready day and night to take care of others. Very close, I've been allowed to experience that in the past few months. Impressive. That is why I thank you once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mr. Chairman. A while ago, I had to take my son to the hospital. He needed a specialist treatment. After the diagnosis, the hospital employee tried to plan as many different appointments as possible to, as I know from my background, declare as much as possible. When I said those appointments could be combined, I was looked at strangely. It took me a long time to get it done. That's the cover we have to make with each other. From systems to people, that was the creed of these two rulers when the Rutte/Asscher cabinet started working. In itself, that is a very nice credo. It's not the system or system that's central, it's the people we tell you to do it. We at DENK find that in this Chamber too often, even today, it is about systems and systems, and too little about people. And when we talk about people, it often stays with words. Dutch healthcare costs around 70 billion euros in 2016. That's almost a third of the total rich budget. Our concern is too often seen as a cost, but care also yields a lot. Care is compassionateness. Care is civilization. Care is employment. In health care, day and night is hard work. Care is also an important part of our modern economy. A total of 1.4 million people work in healthcare. Those people all get a salary, pay taxes and spend their money. In part, therefore, healthcare expenditure returns to the Dutch economy. However, we are calling for greater justice for those who work in the care sector. DENK wants people in the workplace to be more appreciated. We do not think it is fair for directors to earn 2 tonnes and take care of €20,000. More appreciation for our people in the workplace is a must. How does the Minister feel about this? Does she think it's fair that managers make ten times as much money as nurses? After all, care is paid for by all of us. That includes modesty and justice. Our own Prime Minister was still talking about that in his infamous fat speech. He said that people who are paid out of public funds should, and I quote, exercise restraint in their salaries. What is the Minister going to do to make her foreman's wish become a reality? Then there are the harrowing situations in the care of the elderly. The Health Inspectorate has been writing critical reports on the state of care and nursing homes for 15 years. The problems have also been visible in the media for more than ten years. But what's really gonna change? Time and time again the same defects come up: pajama days, death due to dehydration and malnutrition, ligature wounds, bonding, drugging, unqualified staff, and so I can go on for a while. How come these problems have been going on for 15 years? Is the government completely powerless? Should we not intervene fundamentally in the care of the elderly if the inspection has shown that there have been abuses for years? Is it not necessary to take fundamental action when fifteen years of in vain crying are slept? What should we do? Is the Secretary of State prepared, for example, to appoint some kind of crisis manager? If you can appoint a national coordinator for gas extraction in Groningen with, as we saw in the news today, even an independent arbitrator, then you should also be able to appoint a national coordinator for care for the elderly. Dragping problems call for far-reaching solutions. Market forces in care have also not been successful. The cost has exploded over the last ten years. About 5% of all premium income remains with health insurers. More and more people are unable to pay their own risk and their care premium. The four major health insurers together hold 90% of the market. They sometimes act like oligarchs. There is no competition. There is false competition. They also behave dictatorially towards general practitioners, physiotherapists and dentists. They get a take it or leave it contract in the mailbox and have to check it. The fact that caregivers are forced to sign their contracts without consultation should this liberal minister also come up against the bushes? I would like to comment on this point. Let us be clear that we are not in favour of a complete change in the system. We have had too many of these in recent years. It is now important that there is peace in the system. However, it is crucial to organise good counterpower in our healthcare system. The Health Inspectorate has already been the subject of extensive debates. The NZa has also been discussed. What exactly has happened at this point in the past period? What changed at the NZa? Why is everything going well with the IGZ and the NZa? What is needed is transparency instead of backrooms. What is needed is appropriate distance rather than favoritism. What is needed are critical idealists instead of malleable career types. Mr Öztürk and I are regularly blamed for defending minorities, but there must be someone standing up for them. Someone has to pay attention to their interests, don't they? The directors want care to take into account people's wishes, as it literally states in the budget. Therefore, make sure that you map these wishes properly. The number of older people with a migrant background increases from 4% in 2012 to 23% in 2060. That's what we need to do. Can the Secretary of State indicate how traditions, philosophy and religion are currently taken into account in health care institutions so that care becomes culturally sensitive, so that people who are often in their final stages of life can remain themselves? I began my speech by saying that care in the Netherlands costs a lot, but also pays a lot. We must cherish these revenues, but the costs are far too high. In the European Union, after Slovenia, the Netherlands spends the most on care from public funds. So care is cheaper in all other EU countries. How does the Minister feel about that? The Minister says that it is important for every Dutchman that the care premium should not become too high, as it is literally in the budget. However, the healthcare premium has long been too high for many people, as witnessed by the fact that more and more people are unable to pay their contributions and their own risks and thereby avoid caring. These are important indicators. DENK thinks you should do everything you can to make the premium as low as possible. That's what you'd have to fight waste. Can the Minister skim the profits of the health insurance companies? Can it reap the profits of the pharmaceutical industry? Can it reap the profits of medical equipment manufacturers? Can it stop over-rewarding medical specialists and managers? Can she stop thinking about sales? In care, the money should not be guiding, but the humanity. As far as we are concerned, these savings could return to lower health insurance premiums. The directors want a better quality at a lower cost. Is that possible? Yes, that is possible, but not in the way we do it now, not when we think in systems rather than people, not if we keep thinking in boxes and refusing to work small-scale. We are in favour of more tasks being assigned to the municipalities, but we must avoid major differences in the provision of services between municipalities. In this way, there must be room for new healthcare providers in the field of youth care and home care that can bring innovation. At present, health insurers and municipalities still fall far too often back on existing parties and are not always doing well in the procurement process. It's too much of a gun world instead of a result world. How are the Minister and the Secretary of State going to break that culture? I'm rounding up. Care must be future-proof and affordable. Only then will everyone in the future be able to get the care he or she needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u114	Mr. Chairman. Care in the Netherlands is sick. Almost 75 billion will go to the healthcare budget this year, again more than the year before. If healthcare costs continue to grow as rapidly as in the past ten years, we spend about one generation of our national income on care. A typical family will then lose almost half the income of care. It's gonna be priceless. Already there are countless people who can hardly stand it anymore. A premium of at least €100 per month, often much more. Upcoming year's own risk of €385. A first-release rate, which means that you pay for a mandatory conversation with your pharmacist when getting a medicine for the first time, and a fine of almost €50 when picking up drugs at the pharmacy on weekends. Patients are required to pay parking fees during treatment at the hospital. A fine on being sick; it shouldn't get much crazier. But we are obliged to do more. For example, we all pay for quit-with-smoking courses and dietary help in the basic package. My group would like to hear why that is. Release people to choose for themselves. We have to get rid of this cumbersome, collective and overpriced care. Individualise the care, as was done in Singapore. The care there is of higher quality, more efficient and cheaper. It's the modern story of the 21st century. Left-wing parties complain about market forces in healthcare and the VVD applauds the current situation as much better than before. It's both bullshit. There is no market functioning in healthcare at all, there is corporateism. It has also just been referred to: four large health insurance companies which hold almost 90% of the market of a product that is required to be taken away. That is not a free market; it is not a market at all, and it has certainly not become cheaper and better for the insured. There's gotta be another way. Individualize the care. Give people more freedom and lower the huge burdens. As stated, that's possible. Singapore does it: better care, more efficient and cheaper for people and government. The Netherlands also deserves the best care there is. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. In addition to individualisation, we must focus on preventive care. Research carried out by former CPB economist Dr.Pump on behalf of the University Medical Centre Groningen shows that focusing on prevention can reduce cost growth in care by as much as 6%, not only by healthier sports but also by previously detecting and treating diseases and reducing the impact of diseases. In the most recent letter from the Minister on health checks, she indicated that she wanted to move towards a situation in this area where there would be more freedom. We ask the Minister if she can indicate whether and when full health checks will be possible in the Netherlands, so that people who need them do not have to travel all the way to Germany. I'm closing up. We must move towards lower premiums for the people of the country. We must move towards individualisation of care and more preventive care. Only then will care remain affordable and of excellent quality in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-04-tweedekamer-6.u115	This brings to an end the first term of office. Tomorrow at 10.15 a.m. we will continue with the debate on the VWS budget. Then the rulers will answer.
