ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u1	After the first term of office, the Secretary of State replied by letter to that first term. That letter arrived here on 28 April last. Since that answer by letter did not lead to new questions from the Chamber, we are going to deal directly with this bill in the second term. In the second term of office, I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mrs De Boer of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I had prepared myself for a whole story by the Secretary of State and for perhaps a brief discussion of the letter, but I do not have to do that anymore. I can be brief now. Mr Van Helvert and I have tabled a number of amendments to which the Secretary of State has responded in detail, for which I am grateful. We have nevertheless decided to maintain our amendments, despite the Secretary of State's advice not to do so, for the following reason. We believe that there should be a prior check by the ACM on the use of services and facilities at stations by other carriers passing by with trains. We also think it is important that a review by the ACM should be made of the rates used by the NS or ProRail for this purpose. We have amended the amendment in question a number of times and we have heard the answer from the Secretary of State and have now limited it to those services and facilities of which there is one provider. Thus, where there are multiple service and amenities providers, there is no need to take a test by the ACM because then there is simply market forces. We therefore consider it important to have a test of the ACM if there is a single provider of services and amenities, as it can ask for what it wants for those services and amenities; it is good that the ACM checks that these rates are not too high. I hope that I have made myself clear, including to any viewers. I would then like to move on to the motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas passenger carriers and freight transport operators must make known in advance what space they think they need on the railways in the following year;]] [[whereas this is difficult for freighters because they do not know exactly when a ship carrying goods enters the port of Rotterdam;]] [[Whereas the Government intends to introduce a system of fines for unenforced space by a carrier;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with ports, shippers and carriers, to examine the impact that penalty system has on the attractiveness of Dutch rail freight transport and the attractiveness of our ports, how this is regulated abroad and to inform the Chamber within three months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33965-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u3	I think it is important that where space is reserved, the freighters can take it if they are somewhat late. If a ship has taken a little longer, it should not be fined immediately and we should see how we can develop positive incentives for freighters to take up as much space as possible on the rail. After all, we all want to promote rail freight transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u4	I have another question about the amendments tabled by Mrs De Boer. In reply to the Minister of State, we ourselves were quite open in the first period of time that these amendments lead to some additional administrative burden, to a number of ex ante tests open to appeal and objection which will take longer and perhaps also to an incentive to carry out more procedures rather than less, which is precisely the purpose of the amendment. My question is therefore how Mrs De Boer looks at that answer. Is it appropriate to table the amendments in this form? I support some of the objectives that Mrs De Boer is aiming for, but I do not support the result of these amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u5	That is a very fair question, because it is indeed being warned. I believe that the administrative burden could be met, also because there is a motion from the PvdA from the past to limit the number of rail tenders to a number of lines. There are still two lines open that are being tendered. To be honest, the administrative burden is not so bad, because it is not about hundreds of railway lines. It is only those services and amenities offered by one provider at that station. I think there should be a check from the ACM. It has to check whether there is a fair use of tariffs. If it is decided, as is currently proposed in the legislative proposal, to take that test afterwards, then we also have to deal with a test by the ACM. Then I believe we have the same administrative burden. In Limburg there is a report of the ACM on the street that has not yet been officially sent to the Chamber or to the Secretary of State. The ACM checked whether there was indeed fair access to services and services. The passages that have been leaked show that this is not the case. So I think it is important that we have the ACM tested in advance. The Chamber is not about the rate of those services and amenities. The ACM can test this very well and that task also belongs to the ACM home. There is then a level playing field. Carriers who tender for a tender can then neatly involve those tariffs in their tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u6	Then I'm going to go a little deeper into the content. I cannot judge it all in advance myself, but the letter states, among other things, that there are many facilities on the track, that many commercial parties operate and that this amendment creates a difficult situation for the ACM, whereby 'the conditions of access and tariffs of hundreds of service facilities and services' must be assessed for the first time. Services and services in the rail market, for example, already involve 410 stations. It is really a matter of substantial numbers, of substantial administrative burdens, if I read this letter correctly, and thus a substantial additional pressure on the ACM and a bureaucratic process for the parties around the track if that monitoring is ex ante. That is not entirely in line with what Mrs De Boer expects. My question is: what does Mrs De Boer base her expectations on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u7	As it is now arranged, it is indeed ex post. Then you also have a test and there are also administrative burdens. That's right. We want to do it ex ante now; then they'll be there. It's only two lines that are about to be tendered. It is not 410 stations, because unfortunately a few years ago a motion was tabled by the Labour Party and another party, which limits the tendering procedure on the railway to five railway lines. I would very much like to look forward to the proposals of the Labour Party to reverse this and perhaps to open up more lines for tendering, because then Mr Hoogland has a right point, but that is not the case now. My firm conviction is that these administrative burdens will be very low: ex post becomes ex ante; the test becomes ex ante. We have also limited ourselves in the amendments to those provisions which are indeed only put on the market by one supplier. In these cases the test is important, that is what it is meant for. Moreover, the number of tenders on the railways is unfortunately disappointing, from the point of view of the VVD Group. The administrative burden will therefore be very low in the eyes of my group. I think I answered the question with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I went into detail on this legislative proposal in the first term. The question is, of course, which way you want to go. Do you want more legalization of the track? You want more lawsuits, or you don't want to? I fear that this bill will open the way for even more legal play, more lawsuits and more lawyers and lawyers who are going to make a living on the trail. In this respect, I do not think it is appropriate to put forward the supervision and set it up in advance. We have a parliament in the Netherlands. It is up to that parliament to settle and record matters well in advance and not to the ACM to supervise beforehand. My group will therefore vote against Mrs De Boer's amendment. As far as the bill is concerned, we'll get back to you soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the letter from the Secretary of State has clarified the questions raised by the PvdA Group in the first term. In addition, we have now also made an assessment of supervision. We follow the argument that the amendment which proposes to regulate ex ante surveillance, as a head of European policy, does not take account of the administrative burden on the sector. We shall therefore vote against the amendment and in favour of the legislative proposal that has been tabled in its present form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u10	Mr. Chairman. In the first period, we discussed this law in detail and also the topicality of the law at that time. This was due to the alleged malpractices surrounding the tendering of public transport in Limburg. Afterwards, this tender did not go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u11	Normally I always let everyone finish, but at this point I have a question. Mr Van Helvert says in his introduction that there is a connection between this law and the topicality in Limburg. What's that connection? This law is about supervision, either in advance or afterwards, and all technical matters that you can think differently about. However, they do not relate to the possibility of preventing or preventing fraud in this case in Limburg. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u12	The fraud was not in Limburg, but in Utrecht, near the NS, but aside. I said that we discussed this law in the first term and also a number of topical issues relating to this law. I referred to the report of the first term of the debate and nothing more than that. I would like to say that we do not need to go back on this today. I'm not saying we shouldn't go back on it. That will certainly happen; a separate debate has already been requested for this. That is what I wanted to say in the first sentence. One point that does touch it is the question of what the role of the ACM is. We have discussed this very extensively, including with the SP. The SP then made it very clear that it saw no role for the ACM as an arbitrator between the two parties. It does not want the whole game of market forces. I understand, but now you're dealing with that situation. What does the SP think? I was sorry that the SP did not go into this and got stuck in the opinion that she did not see any role for the ACM. From what has happened with the invitation to tender for public transport in the south of the country, it is very important that there is a very clear and strong referee: An Authority Consumer & Market. An authority that you can pronounce with a capital A and also write. That is why we want to strengthen the position of the ACM through a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u13	The bill is not about this, but I am being called upon to do so, so I will go into it very briefly. If the game wasn't there, would it have happened what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u14	I don't know, because it's not. I would like to make a proposal that says that I would like Elvis Presley to come and perform in the House of Representatives. You can keep finding that, but that's not gonna happen. It is also the same with the attitude of the SP when it comes to the ACM. The situation is as it is. Elvis died, at least, I assume, and we are currently dealing with market forces on the trail. The situation as it is, I want to do something. I would like to give the Authority a stronger position in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u15	I wish there was a fair game, but there isn't. There's a legal fight over the traveler's back. The moment you give the Authority Consumer & Market even more powers, that will only increase, because then the parties will not only fight each other afterwards but also advance. Anyway, I'm curious about the report that was just mentioned. I'm also curious if they're going to go into the leaked mails, because that was part of the game too, the conspiracy against NS. But we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u16	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u17	Me neither. In that sense, I think it is very sensible. Although I have read the answer of the state secretary correctly, I am also pleased that Mrs De Boer and I have decided to maintain our questions. Finally, I do have a question, looking ahead to the debate we are still having on tendering. As a result of the minutes of the first term, I shall return to that point. When, according to the Secretary of State, can we expect the report and all the information necessary for that debate to be public? However, in order to conduct this debate on public transport and its procurement properly, it is necessary that the ACM's report should be made publicly available to the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u18	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. We suspend the meeting for a few moments and then proceed with the second-term response by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the coulance it has shown towards me in terms of the first term. I am glad that this has been possible in this way. Three amendments have been tabled. There is also a question from Mr Van Helvert. The interruptions of members Hoogland and De Boer left a question about the administrative burden of ex ante and ex post reviews. I shall begin with Mr Van Helvert's question when this report will be made public. That's what the judge is about right now. The judge must decide whether or not it should be made public. I can do a lot, but I can't influence a judge, and that's a good thing. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot answer that question. Then I come to the question raised in the case of interruption: are the administrative burden of ex-ante verification by the ACM the same as in the case of ex-ante verification? Ex post is based on a complaint. That's about a clear area. This will take less work if there is a problem. Ex ante means, for each situation, ex ante verification for some hundreds of provisions, not only at the time of the call for tenders. Then it can be about every car wash at any station. For the ex ante review, a framework has to be established by the ACM, but the expectation is that these burdens will be higher. I now come to the amendments. There has been an amended amendment to Amendment No De Boer/Van Helvert in part No. 10. I do not think I have the final amendment yet. I'd still like to talk about the ex-ante review. I went into that in detail in the letter. First of all, I would like to point out that this proposal aims to increase the monitoring of the rail market and also to strengthen and strengthen the position of the ACM. At the moment when we introduce an ex ante review, we are putting our heads on national policy. I think I remember that there are parties in this Chamber who, like me, find it extremely undesirable to turn a head on national policy. The amendment is aimed only at operators who are the sole provider of services at a station location. The same applies, namely the national head. This is contrary to the principles of the directive. Ex ante surveillance in the market for rail services and services is part of this Directive, precisely because there is competition between the parties. The Directive distinguishes between services necessary for the operation of the train service and services listed in Annex 2: Supplementary and support services. This distinction is not included in the amendment. Many commercial parties operate in the market for services and services, not just transport organisations. They often offer their services to carriers in competition within the Netherlands, and in some cases also in neighbouring countries. I believe that, under the directive, the national head of this policy can distort the market, for example, for operators of laundry facilities. For example, regional carriers have their own car wash. In the case of the proposed ex ante monitoring, the tariffs of the operators shall be determined by the ACM. That's gonna disrupt the market. The amendment also means higher costs for business. As I said earlier, implementation costs will increase. It's not a few thousand euros. I therefore advise against this amendment, with this justification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u20	I can meet the Secretary of State. We have tabled an amended amendment, which is limited to those services and services offered by only one provider at the station. I can answer the Secretary of State in that. I would like to say that there will indeed be few more calls for tenders. If a part, service or facility has to be renegotiated, CDA and VVD prefer to look at a test by the ACM in advance. This also avoids costs afterwards. That's what the bill provides for. So there will always be costs. There are therefore few calls for tenders and the limitation to a number of services and services offered by a single provider. I would like to suggest to the Secretary of State that we attach ourselves to a level playing field and look closely at market forces on the track so that it can do its job properly. In a report, the ACM itself advised to do so in advance. I believe there is still a preliminary appeal before the court, but we have seen that the ACM has concluded in a report that it did not go well in Limburg. We attach importance to a level playing field and to a good market position for all carriers on the railways. That is why we see the importance of this amendment. It would have to outweigh a number of additional costs, which, in my view, the Secretary of State is well overestimated. We think it's not that bad on the other side. Anyway, we would like to look forward to the proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u21	This is a very interesting reasoning from the VVD Group. In fact, the reasoning is reversed: if we do it right in advance, we will avoid errors. But the ACM has precisely the position to receive complaints and to be able to intervene when things are not going well. In this law we strengthen that position. Instead, Mrs De Boer says that the system is not working, so we need to have the ACM checked at the front. This puts a head on the policy that no other European country has. That in itself is a very strange twist. I keep saying with that motivation: let the reinforced ACM do its job the way it is now anchored. The moment something goes wrong, a complaint can be filed. The ACM can intervene itself and has other means and powers, for example to conduct research. That is exactly what we stand for. If we are to deal with this ex ante in advance, it will not necessarily lead to fewer complaints and less judicialisation, if that is the case. No, I think we should make the system work properly. Anyway, we disagree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u22	It is a matter of principle. All carriers must have an equal chance on the market. That's why it's good to have it tested in advance. Then it can be included in the tender. If it is tested ex post, the tender is already there. Then you're gonna have to go to court, and you're gonna have to make a lot of money, and then there's gonna have to be a big report from the ACM. With pre-keys you can create a level playing field for all carriers. Then they're not one-sidedly dependent on one major provider. In most cases, that's the NS. An ex-ante test is nothing wrong with itself. This morning we introduced an amendment to the Passenger Transport Act 2000, which includes an ex ante test. We do this a lot more often. I leave the qualification of a head of regulation on behalf of the Secretary of State. I find the importance of a level playing field so serious that an ex ante test on these services and facilities, which we limit, is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u23	It is indeed my statement that it is being put on the table. We are talking about the implementation of a European directive, and I do not think it is desirable for us to deviate from it at national level and put our heads on national policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u24	What are the consequences of the amendment on the position of parliament and regional democratically elected bodies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u25	The democratically elected bodies are competent in that they are in fact the boss of the cabinet. I cannot assess whether or not this is being influenced. If so, I'll inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u26	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u27	I come to the amendment to item No. 14 on the provision of information. As far as I'm concerned, it's not necessary, but I'm leaving the verdict to the Chamber. The opinion on the amendment to item No. I shall also leave 12 to the Chamber. I come to Mrs De Boer's motion on item No. 17. As soon as a ship arrives, the freighter must be able to drive. In the past, I have studied the planning of freight transport. Some of the freighters already lay down a claim for a path. If the ship arrives at another time, that path will not be followed. We want to change that. In fact, we want the paths to be much more flexible. When a ship arrives and is asked for a path, it must be able to be driven. Like ProRail, I'd like to get rid of the old system. There are claims for an uncertain future. Paths must be requested when they are actually needed. We need to get rid of those reservations, because that leads to reserved empty paths in rush hour, while we want more trains to run reliably and safely on our rail network. Mrs De Boer is asking me to investigate that. Moreover, 40% of the reserved freight routes are not driven. That is a very high percentage, and that is exactly what we do not want. I understand the request for an investigation. Mrs De Boer also wants to know whether the attractiveness is affected and how it is regulated. At least I can promise her that investigation. In that sense, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-27-tweedekamer-6.u28	Thank you. I see there are no further questions from the Chamber. Then this is the end of the second term and thus of the discussion of this bill. Next Tuesday there will be a vote on the motions, the amendments and the legislative proposal.
