ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that two legislative submissions have taken place on this law. More than 100 amendments have been tabled and today the Minister's second term is being discussed. I see Mr Albert de Vries walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u2	In order to make it easier for you, Mr President, I would like to see the amendment on item No. 38 off the agenda. Apparently, that's stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u3	The amendment tabled by Mr de Vries (Doc. 38) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u4	For the sake of order, I would like to ask whether it does not make sense to follow the order of speech we used during the legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u5	This is a request to Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u6	I would like to use the order in which we have taken part in the plenary debate. In addition, I would like to see the amendment on item No. Eighty-four withdraw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u7	The Van Tongeren amendment (Doc. 84) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u8	I will look around to see if other Members support Mr De Vries' request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u9	I think Mr De Vries' request is logical and I support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u10	A similar sound from me. I think it would be good for the order of the sitting if we did it in the same way as we did in the previous discussions. I support this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u11	I can agree with this. I support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u12	Support for the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u13	I have no objection to it. If this means changing the list of speakers, it would be useful to have a new list of speakers drawn up before we start the debate, so that we all know when it is our turn. This can be done during the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u14	I have no objections in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u15	I find it difficult, because I have applied properly according to the rules. It is not a budget time in which we have the budgetary order. This has been established according to all normal rules. I do not understand why we should now suddenly follow the budgetary order for a non-budget item.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u16	I don't think it's convenient to think about this in detail. The point is that a request has been made, supported by everyone, except by you, Mrs Van Tongeren. I propose to use the same list of speakers as in the legislative consultation. The Minister has the floor for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. It is very special to be standing here after three years of preparation, along with a lot of parties. The Chamber has also been intensively involved. We have had two full days of legislative consultation and now we are holding the plenary debate. I would like to thank the Chamber for its intensive thinking along the entire route. I've seen that there's a lot of interest in the trajectory that's going to follow. This is also evident from the time investment that the Chamber has put into this so far and from the many questions that have been asked. It began with 900 questions in the report, 350 in the further report, 190 in the first period and 60 in the second period. It's getting clearer and clearer. I hope that this evening we will be able to make it quite clear what it is all going to look like. I shall now turn to the 60 questions put by the Chamber in second term. First of all, I would like to look back at the two days of legislative consultation we have had. I have experienced this as positive and constructive. I have a lot of support for the main lines of the law. Of course, there has been and will continue to be a part of the debate today. In general, I have the feeling that we can support this law together. On 8 June, we broke up and instructed ourselves to come closer to each other on a number of subjects. I've had frequent meetings with members of the Chamber in the last two weeks. I believe that this has produced a good result, because I understand many of the wishes very well and often also endorse the aims that the Chamber wants to achieve. At the same time, I am also trying to uphold the law, the system as it is. It is very good that we have achieved the goal together in the end without compromising the essence of the law. With the same look, I have looked at the proposals of the Chamber, with a 'yes, if' look and not with a 'no, unless' look. For example, this has led to discussions on health and participation. It has also led to a positive appreciation of a number of amendments tabled by the Chamber which I had initially advised against. I would therefore also like to thank the Chamber very much for its willingness to hold a constructive discussion. Last week, the House received a letter on the amendments tabled until 17 June at 2.30 p.m. Therefore, I am not going to go into all these amendments now. I have them with me, if the Chamber wishes to know anything about them, but I would like to focus on the amendments that have been tabled since then. I did not appreciate it in writing because I wanted the letter to be sent to the Chamber on time with the appreciation of all the amendments, but I will reply in this way in my second-term contribution. I want to build up my answer as follows. I shall start by answering the parliamentary questions in blocks and then deal with the amendments tabled after 17 June. The layout of the cubes is as follows: block 1: steering on quality, Block 2: the ratio between municipalities, provinces and empire, Block 3: the instruments of the law, Block 4: procedures and legal protection, Block 5: the delivery test, monitoring and evaluation, Block 6: the digital system, Block 7: implementation and implementation, Block 8: financial securities, Block 9: procedural questions. This looks like a lot of blocks. It may only be one law, but it is a law that comes into being after we merge 26 laws together. This leads to the necessary discussion and has also led to the necessary questions. I'll start with the first block, steer by quality. I shall begin with the questions put by Mrs Van Veldhoven on this subject. She noted during the debate that, for example, the Florence Convention was not included in the Environment Act. It has not been included, but it has been included. The Florence Convention, also known as the European Landscape Treaty, is about promoting the protection and management of landscapes. This concern is currently regulated through the Regional Planning Act, through the Environmental Management Act, through the Nature Protection Act 1998 and through the Monumentenwet. That care is continued under the Environmental Act. Article 1.2 of the legislative proposal sets out the scope. It says that landscapes are part of the physical habitat. The definition of "landscape" has been taken over from the Florence Convention. So the goals of the law also apply to the landscape. You can say that the law is aimed at achieving and maintaining good landscape quality and at efficient management, use and development of the landscape. The starting point is "decentral, unless." Landscapes are decentralised, so it is an autonomous task of provinces. I think it's important to know it's in there. There's a responsibility and it's invested. As far as that goes, it certainly doesn't fall between ship and ship. Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked what is covered by the water system. Are the Wadden Sea and the North Sea below? Does the water quality fall under the water test? The Wadden Sea and the North Sea are also covered by that water system. This follows from the legal definition of the concept. I won't repeat it here, but it's in there. Water quality is also part of the water test. That's also evident from the Water Test Handlement, so that's settled. Mrs Van Veldhoven asks whether the Lower House is involved in the new standards for water safety and whether those standards come in a Royal Decree or in an AMvB. The new standards of the Delta programme come first in the Water Act, which is dealt with in the Chamber. We discussed it in general this afternoon. This amendment to the Water Act will be submitted to the Chamber before the end of this year. The new standards are then incorporated as environmental values through the adoption decision of the Environment Act. It's actually the same as with all the other laws. From the law it eventually passes through the adoption decision to the Environment Act and is thus incorporated into one of the four AMvBs, namely in the Quality of Living Environment Decision. Mrs Van Veldhoven proposed that the word "may" be deleted in Article 2.1, third paragraph, so that the municipality would have to look at all the objectives of the decision. I can imagine that is the first thought, but I hope to convince her that this is not desirable. An AMvB determines where a broad trade-off takes place. There is no need for a wide-ranging consideration for certain licences. For example, if you want to build a house in a place where you can build a house according to the environmental plan, you don't want to have a utility-and-emergency discussion about the fact that a house is being built. Then you want to talk about, for example, construction quality or whether a house meets the requirements for a construction activity. That narrows the balance of interests. That's predictable, that's right for sure, because you already have a say in the environmental plan at an earlier stage on whether to build it. In addition, it is sometimes desirable for the legislator to state precisely what purpose a power is used for. Then that power must be applied in accordance with that objective and not otherwise. In response to the Council of State, where the question may have come from, more aims have been included in order to achieve better guidance from the law. Sometimes you want to keep the whole width in view, for example in the environment view. Then you want to have all the relevant goals in mind. That's about integral policy. For example, you want to apply most of the objectives in the environmental plan. Therefore, both candle provisions must remain in place. On the one hand, the broad version can, on the other hand, the limited version can only set those rules that are really necessary. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked why the concepts of sound, soil and air could not be written out and whether smell could be added. The concept of the environment has been deliberately used in this law, as it makes it possible to assess all aspects in conjunction with it. In this context, it is precisely by looking at the best solutions in conjunction, rather than the separate preventive rules on a subject-by-issue basis, that we can achieve profit. That'll keep you out of the loop. This can be a negative effect of a sectoral approach. When you capture substances from your chimney and then pour them into the water, the air gets cleaner but the water doesn't. That is why we use the term 'environment'. The term 'environment' covers not only the concepts of 'air', 'noise' and'soil' mentioned by Mrs van Veldhoven, but also, for example, 'water','scent', 'external safety', 'efficient use of energy' and 'existence of waste'. This is done at European level, for example, in the Industrial Emissions Directive. They were asked if they could be appointed separately, but by detaching them, the coherence disappears and the subject matter is looked at. For example, when integrated measures are adopted for emission standards, you set them on a subject-by-issue basis. However, for an overall approach, it is better to use the word "environment." Mr Smaling asked whether sustainable is a long life or something related to the transition to a sustainable economy. That is a good question, because the word is widely used and abused. Sustainable development is enshrined in the law. The objectives of the law are also based on sustainable development. Combating climate change, for example, has been mentioned as an interest to be protected. The Brundtland Commission's definition is used for this purpose. Its meaning is dealt with in the explanatory memorandum. That's a generally accepted definition. So I don't think there's any need for tightening up. In the context of the Environmental Act, "sustainable" means the contribution made to sustainable development. For example, renewable energy is synonymous with renewable energy. So sustainable doesn't mean how long something lasts. I hope I have made that clear. Mr Veldman, Mr De Vries and Mr Ronnes have asked almost identical questions, namely: is it still possible under the Environmental Law for business sites to apply for one (dome) permit? That dome permit remains possible under the Environmental Act, for example for sites such as Chemelot, which is explicitly requested. In the case of a dome permit, one permit is applied for for for a multi-company location. Initiators operate together, for example in the form of a foundation. The legislative proposal contains a permit obligation for environmentally harmful activities. The AMvB then identifies the cases to which that authorisation should really apply. It is therefore still possible for companies to apply for a single licence, but that remains for the companies themselves. They can see whether or not they come to such a foundation form or whether they want to do it all separately. In this way, authorisation can be linked as efficiently as possible to the various activities that take place there. It may well be that they do it on a temporary basis and want separate permits. They may also want to do it at the same time. In this way you can also take into account the coherence of activities and the impact on the living environment. But the possibility of a single dome permit remains. Mr Veldman expressed his concerns about the ladder for sustainable urbanisation. He asked me whether I would like to amend it and make sure that the evaluation of the PBL is completed in good time so that the adjustments can be taken into account through the implementation decision. I would like to say to Mr Veldman that I want to do so. I also know the concerns of the application of this ladder. I've explored those concerns. Besides suggestions for improvement, I have also heard positive sounds. He also has positive effects. In anticipation of the Environment Act, I am ready to adapt the Spatial Planning Decision. Those are quick wins. In addition, a follow-up evaluation of the PBL is planned for 2017. I will make sure that it is ready in time so that it can be taken into account in the adoption decision. Mr De Vries has asked me whether it is not better to demolish rural houses if there is a surplus of that kind of housing in the area. Under the Rural Housing Act, a municipality can exclude a former agricultural farm house from a number of environmental standards. Where it is desirable, it may not, where it is not desirable, be necessary, also under the Environmental Act. So there's a free choice. I trust that municipalities will make up for that choice themselves, because in one municipality there may be a surplus and in the other there may be a deficit. The supply of similar properties in the region is certainly important, but also, for example, the preservation of cultural heritage. Sometimes that is why it is either the viability of the countryside or the destruction of capital in the event of demolition. Those could all be considerations you're taking with you. In any case, the quality of the countryside benefits from an administrative balancing area around the housing stock. Local drivers can see very well for themselves what is wise at that time. I would not sit on the seat of the municipality in that regard. Mr De Vries also asked questions about the UN Convention. He asked whether this should be ratified first, or whether something could be included in advance. Mrs Dik-Faber also explicitly asked about the willingness to amend the law once the treaty has been ratified and rather before. I think accessibility for disabled people is very important. That goes for the whole cabinet. Access to buildings is regulated in the Building Decision. There are rules on the access of a building, an access sector within the building and the route on the public road to at least one access to the building. There is also a Decision on access to public transport. There are also rules for the accessibility of stops and stations. I'm gonna limit myself to the physical environment, but the rules are much more than that. During the past year there has also been a lot of attention for extending the rules in the Building Decision. New rules have been worked on with the Chronic Diseases and Disabled Council and its successor. In September 2014 this was discussed during the AO Building Regulations with the general committee for Housing and Rijksdienst. In December 2014, the change in veils was submitted to the Chamber. The amendments will enter into force on 1 July next week. The new rules are of course included in an AMvB under the Environmental Act. There's no question about that. The Build Environment Decision will be presented next year through the front suspension procedure. I can't ratify a UN convention through the Environment Act. There's an official trial for that. The Act of Approval and the Implementing Act are currently before the Chamber for examination. Then they'll go to the First Chamber. If the Court wishes additional rules on it, it may propose this in the course of the examination of the implementing law. If this has consequences for the Environment Act, this can be regulated by the Introduction Act. I'm moving on to block two on the relationship between municipalities, provinces and empire. Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66 asked what would happen if we were to remove the allocation of functions to locations and show that there is a fair national interest. Both criteria apply side by side. If the Empire or the Province takes a project decision or an instruction decision, there must be a national or a provincial interest. This outcome should lead to a balanced allocation of functions to locations. Thus, the national or provincial interest does not replace a balanced allocation of functions to locations, but is a condition for the use of jurisdiction. As soon as this happens, an additional capacity for instruction is given to the provinces. As you know, it's very sensitive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u18	I was concerned with the powers of instruction of the Empire vis-à-vis the provinces or municipalities. In view of the number of laws incorporated into the Environment Act, combining all kinds of qualitative environmental legislation, I can imagine that, in addition to the balanced allocation of functions to locations, there may also be other aspects that the Empire considers to be national interest. I am concerned that they are independent of the national interest, whatever that is. If the Empire can prove that there is a national interest, it must really have a title to do it. In the same way as municipalities and provinces have agreed a fine wording on the reluctance to use the possibility, the Empire should not confine itself to the balanced allocation of functions to locations. Where there is real evidence that there is a national interest, it should be placed in full force of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u19	We have explicitly identified our national interests in the Infrastructure and Space Structure Vision. That's different from between provinces and municipalities, where it's a little wider. That's why those instructions were needed. We have mentioned them explicitly, so they are very good to find. We are about to have a discussion on the country's environmental vision at a rich level. That is what national interests will be in. Perhaps, as a result of the political debate, national interests will be added. With this we have explicitly the hook to be able to intervene for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yeah, but we're just trying to integrate all these different laws and all these different pieces, where you can read what you can and what you can't do. For this this is the railway booklet, also for all relations between different levels of government in the Netherlands in this field. That is why I think it would be useful to use this broad wording in this booklet, which does not alter the fact that we are further detailing this in the Infrastructure and Space Structures Vision, in which we state what we consider to be of national interest in any case. Why should we fail ourselves in this broad railway booklet, in which we start wide and then start funneling and specifying, if we may run into it later? My explicit intention is to use this very reluctantly and to make it truly of demonstrably national importance. We do not decentralise for nothing, but we do not have to fail ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u21	Again, by assigning functions to locations, you do not limit yourself. In the national policy plans, in the SVIR and later in the environmental vision, you can indicate what you think is of national importance. That is also possible with this definition. So I see no reason to change it, because at the time you change it, I also responded to D66's amendment on it. That is very sensitive to the VNG. One condition for the support of the VNG was that no change would be made in the powers between the provinces and the municipalities in that area. In this context, I am also thinking of the division of powers between the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities. We have chosen not to take over each other's territory, but above all to clarify the question of who is to what. Mr Ronnes has asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u22	I feel like I'm gonna have to respond. In one of the answers about the relationship between the state and the province and the municipalities, the Minister writes that the new rules have even strengthened them in relation to the current regulations. I just heard her say that the VNG did not want it to remain at the same level of protection. Just now we have been talking about the word "constraint." I think that's the key, but where is the check, then where is the checkpoint where it can be flagged back when it doesn't? After all, it is an agreement between IPO and VNG, but what if that agreement is immediately off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u23	It's become clearer. Between Rijk, province and municipalities was "decentral, unless" agreed, but "unless" can be interpreted in all kinds of ways. So there were often discussions about whether or not it was a province's competence to intervene with an instructional decision. There is also a large difference between provinces in the way in which they have used that instrument. The province where Mr Ronnes himself comes from was a lot more enthusiastic about it than a number of other provinces, which have been very reluctant to deal with it. It is agreed that the instructional instrument is being handled with restraint. Basically, based on trust between levels of government, you could always know through a good conversation whether or not to do certain things. A municipality should not do anything if there is a provincial plan stating that it is a provincial interest. For example, a province or municipality should not do something that is contrary to a national interest. That's where you have to get along in good decency. You really should not intervene until there is a deliberate deviation from the rules of the game. How was that recorded between VNG and IPO? They have made explicit agreements on which cases it can and in which cases it cannot be done, because even the word "resisting" can be interpreted in various ways. They will also shape this in their cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u24	I would like to come back to this. The Minister says: yes, but in what way can we intervene? That's what the CDA's all about. We must ensure in the legislation that we can consider whether or not something has happened in accordance with the agreements, whether or not we are going to be able to do so in the near future. Those appointments aren't forever, though, until you change him, the law is always there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u25	That's clear. I understand Mr Ronnes' question now. It is enshrined in the law, and it is enshrined in Article 2.3, which is about subsidiarity. That is why it has been given a basis. Mr Ronnes also asked about planning damage in connection with an instructional decision. For example, an instructional decision is intended to "deadline" cases and if a municipality has to incur costs, there is a higher cost regime. That arrangement is included in the bill. The Empire and the Province must therefore reimburse the costs due to the order of inquiry. We had a general discussion on this. It wasn't entirely clear, not even with me. However, there is that clarity in Article 13 (2) in order to make it even more specific. That Article lays down the cost compensation for municipalities which, on request or on the instructions of another administrative body, modify their environmental plan. Mr Madlener asked whether asylum seekers' centres and windmills were covered by the term "national interest" and what that meant for those concerned. As has been said, the legislative proposal does not exhaustively determine what national interests are. Only if there is a legal task will there be a clear interest in advance. Other matters always require consideration, for example in the environmental vision. The energy supply is included in the SVIR as a national interest. The same applies to the windmills. For example, the location of asylum seekers is not included as a national interest. If the national interest requires the use of a project decision, then the parties concerned have to do with the Empire. They are therefore involved at an early stage. It's a legal arrangement. In this context, legal protection is also open to decisions. It is therefore a little dependent on what we have taken up as a national interest and what we have not. Mr Madlener also asked whether the "Space for Space" scheme and the "green for red" scheme could be given greater freedom to municipalities. The Nota Space gave provinces and municipalities more freedom to also strengthen the quality of the outdoor area. They were able to use the Space for Space scheme for this purpose. But also the current Structural Vision Infrastructure and Space gives more space to provinces. Or how the provinces give that extra space to municipalities in turn, is ultimately a matter of customization. As for the Empire also applies to the province: decentralised, unless. I have not received any signals so far that it would not go well, but with the National Environment Vision we can just talk about this again if there are any questions or concerns. Mrs Van Tongeren states that the Rich cannot set aside the provincial environmental regulation with the state coordination scheme. She's asking if this is different with the Environment Act. This was the result of the shale gas discussion. I can say that the bill does not change anything at this point. The province can now include rules on shale gas extraction, for example, in the provincial environmental regulation and can do so later in the provincial environmental regulation. Under the Environmental Act, the Empire can carry out major projects with the project decision, which can also be shale gas extraction, or the installation of windmills, as can now be done with the state coordination scheme. Both now and in the near future, the rules of the provinces can be left inapplicable for urgent reasons. This can be done in the current system and in the future system. The provinces can therefore lay down their own rules, but they can then be excluded for urgent reasons. This has been aligned in the second letter of amendment following the research carried out by the University of Groningen. I believe that Mrs Van Tongeren regularly talks to my colleague about shale gas or wind energy. In any case, the Environment Act does not change the rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u26	The Minister's explanation was pretty clear. However, as far as that last sentence is concerned, I think things are different. When the province of Brabant included it in its environmental regulation, Minister Kamp took a rather strong stand against it. At that time, I understood that the only possibility was that he would have to make a law to change that. So it is true that the Empire can get over the environmental regulation, but the Empire must make an incredibly hard effort to do so. It is changing now, as the Minister said: then it is a decision major projects. This is different from legislation that has to be passed by the Lower House and the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u27	I understand that, under the State Coordination Regulation, Article 3.35 (8) of the Regional Planning Act makes it possible to overrule decentralised regulation. And soon there is in the Environment Act, Article 5.51, paragraph 4, the power to exclude rules of the province for urgent reasons. Both laws, both traditional, old and new, therefore have an opportunity to overrule. Perhaps Mr Kamp wanted to get out in administrative consultation, which I can imagine, because that is what we are always trying to do. However, he also had and has in the current legislation the possibility to terminate the rules that the province lays down for urgent reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u28	And Mr Kamp is the Minister of Economic Affairs. Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u29	I may have a very unusual request, but I really don't understand. It is not unwilling, but I really believe that there will be a different level of legal protection. Could only this particular case concerning shale gas be put on paper so that I can follow it? The Minister explains it, and I think it's different. The Minister is undoubtedly right, but is she prepared to write it down for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u30	I can certainly do that. I think we have a little time until the votes. So if this still leads to a different way of voting for GroenLinks, I can certainly put that on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u31	I also have a question on this point, because it has a connection with the previous point. It is about the possibilities for the Empire to intervene if it feels that national interests are being affected. Is the Minister actually saying that if a national interest is affected that is anything other than the balanced allocation of locations, you should make a project decision? On the basis of such a project decision, you can still ignore everything that is regulated in the province. Why, then, is the project decision given such wide powers, whereas the instructional rules do restrict it to the balanced allocation of functions to locations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u32	In fact, I would just point out that there is no difference between the current regime and the previous regime. Both regimes have the opportunity to overrule a province if that province lays down its own rules that are contrary to national interest. So you could say that the form you use to do that doesn't even matter. Whether through a project decision, through an instructional rule or in another way, there is simply the possibility to intervene at the time when another sabotages your policy. Of course, both in the instructional rules and in the project decision, you have to motivate very well why you do so. The instructional decision is limited, but it will also be limited in the project decision, because there must be urgent reasons. It cannot be the case that, at a national level, we think of a different national interest every week and then force the region to its knees, to put it simplistically.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u33	The Minister and I are in complete agreement on that. Only then does the question remain why a project decision allows you to overrule a provincial scheme and you cannot do so with an instructional rule. A project decision can be about anything. It could be about something you want or something you don't want. It can be about drinking water quality or about shale gas drilling. Actually, it could be about anything. If you think that the rules that have been laid down in the province go against a national interest, you can overrule that in a project decision. The rules of instruction are not about the overrule of what the province has decided, but rather about indicating to the province that it is in the national interest to do something. In doing so, the Minister wants to limit it to the balanced allocation of functions to locations. That's my question. Why so limited in the rules of state instruction and so extensive in the project decision, when these are actually two sides of the coin? On the one hand, you want to destroy something and on the other hand, you want to ask something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u34	Because one is actually about elements that you have already laid down and which have already been the subject of democratic decision-making: what are national interests? If someone goes over that then you can also appeal to them. For new added national interests, therefore, we keep that limitation in it... is unclear for municipalities and provinces what they should ultimately take into account. Which is why I think you should keep it limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u35	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u36	We really do the interruptions in half, because otherwise it's out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u37	Yes, I understand, but very briefly: our national interests are wider than just a balanced allocation of functions to locations. The Minister himself has just admitted that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u38	I suggest the Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u39	Perhaps for clarity: it can also be done with an instructional rule. I come to the third block: the instruments. Mr Houwers asked what the opinion of municipalities and VNG was on the obligation for municipalities to establish an environmental vision. This has also been discussed in the Chamber. The VNG no longer has any objections to a mandatory municipal environmental vision. There were at the beginning of the establishment of the Environmental Law. Alderman Revis said this on behalf of the VNG at the round table on 21 May. They did say that they want to keep it as free as possible. That's what I want myself to do. So they withdrew their formal objection. Last time, I said on the amendment that I would leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether the use area should be spread over the entire duration within a programmed approach. She had the concern that within a year everything would be souped up or that some parties would take up more space than others. Of course, it is wise to divide the operating space properly over time, but whether you incorporate it into a programmatic approach depends very much on the circumstances. What is the problem and where do you use the programmatic approach to solve it? It is in principle up to the administrative body to draw up the approach. A programme with a programmatic approach strikes a balance between meeting environmental values or other objectives on the one hand and allowing new burdensome activities on the other. The law regulates how the instrument works. A specific national programming approach is developed per AMvB. The approach is always discussed with the Chamber through a veil, so it can influence it. But look at the PAS. In addition, you may ask yourself whether you want to have completed everything already very soon, in the first year. What does that mean for the years to come? But at the NSL, for example, you want to have filled in at the front of everything very quickly. So it's very program-dependent how you deal with it. You can't say in general terms: we have to divide it proportionally over the years. Mrs Van Veldhoven describes the situation that the total still complies with environmental values, but only one sector has an excess and therefore there is little room for another sector. Actually, that's what I was talking about. It is primarily a good direction, so that one sector does not single out the use area at the expense of the other. I can tell you that in the PAS, we've had a lot of fights about infrastructure space versus agricultural space versus industrial space. So all the parties involved are definitely on the finch rope so as not to lose sight of it. I do not think that we should think of legal rules for this, but that it is simply part of a programmatic approach. In the end, each programmed approach will monitor progress, implementation and target range. In any programmed approach, there is also a legal obligation to change if the monitor shows that the target is not achieved. I think this is a good stick behind the door. Mrs Van Tongeren calls for more influence from citizens and businesses on programmes with a programmed approach. Citizens and businesses have influence in different ways, so much more than just through the ballot box, as Mrs Van Tongeren said. When drafting, there is participation under the article on the uniform public preparation procedure, i.e. Section 3.4 of the General Administrative Law Act. Any citizen or organisation can express its views. In addition, there will be an obligation to state reasons. The governance that adopts a programme will have to indicate how citizens and businesses are involved, i.e. participation. Citizens and businesses may request the amendment of a once-established programme. This does not need to be explicitly regulated by law. A citizen may ask the administration or parliament to implement, draw up or adapt the programme. Finally, citizens can also request enforcement in the absence of a duty by administrative bodies. They can appeal that to the judge. There are therefore several times when citizens or organisations can be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you for these answers, which remove some of our concerns about the programmatic approach. I would just like to ask the Minister to make it clear that citizens can request compliance or amendment of a programme before the administrative courts. They can, of course, go to their people's representatives, but can the Minister confirm that they can also go to the administrative court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u41	Citizens and businesses may request the amendment of a once-established programme. In the end, they can ask for enforcement or appeal to the courts when a duty is waived. In my view, this answers Mrs Van Tongeren's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u42	A simple yes would help me, because are we talking about the administrative judge? Are stakeholders not only citizens, but can organisations also ask for change or enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yes. Mr De Vries asked a question about the general rules of state. He asked if it was necessary to have a notification for permit-free building in monuments. He introduced an actual case with regard to a monument that was painted a completely different colour. I think it is important to distinguish between two activities: building activities on monuments and monuments. What's license-free is very different. Replacing the wallpaper may already be subject to authorisation in a monumental building. Of course this is not a construction activity, but if it is centuries old wallpaper, it is subject to permit. The Minister of OCW and I do not intend to introduce a reporting obligation for activities in state monuments when drafting general state rules. In fact, licence-free activities on monuments are often very small interventions that cannot affect the monumental character of the building. Permission-free activities in monuments always concern subordinates, such as a flagpole, garden furniture or a fence. The buildings attached to a monument are always subject to authorisation. A reporting obligation for those small licence-free activities would be accompanied by administrative administrative burdens. 'Cause what are you supposed to deliver? Does the municipality have to decide on this or not? You have to look when something is reported, otherwise there is not much point in setting up a reporting obligation. Can there be any objection? Those cases make the complex to do this. That is why the Minister of OCW and I are not in favour of this. It leads to additional administrative burdens on matters that we believe are never really a problem in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u44	I am reasonably convinced by the Minister that reporting, especially in legal terminology, is not the solution. However, we see permit-free activities in monuments that sometimes, completely unconsciously, lead to destruction or partial destruction of the monument. We really shouldn't want that, given the amount of money we spend on this. I shall be tabling a motion in which this will be dealt with in a more gentle manner. For me, it is important for the municipality to know that there will be a permit-free activity. I hope the motion falls into good shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u45	We shall soon see what the motion looks like and what will be the verdict of the cabinet on this matter. The member Van Veldhoven of D66 asked a question about the experimental scheme. She read in the answer to question 101 that parts are allowed to deteriorate. She asked whether it was possible to clarify what is and is not allowed in relation to experiments. Mrs Van Veldhoven quoted an answer that allowed deterioration. However, this is immediately supported by 'in order to improve other aspects or aspects'. I think it's important to get that whole sentence. It is not conceivable that the improvement of the physical environment will be beneficial on all possible aspects. A solar panel has many advantages, but not everyone will like it. An innovative technique for the reuse of raw materials may be very interesting, but it also costs more energy. The interesting thing about the comprehensive approach of the Environment Act is that you can ultimately find a decision much more sensible if you no longer look sectoral. If you look at the overall picture, you might realize that we're all making progress, even if you go a little bit backwards. The experiment should contribute to the protection of the quality of the living environment as a whole. That is actually the same as the discussion just now on the concept of the environment. As far as I am concerned, this is a condition for the use of the experimental scheme. Mr. Smaling has on block four...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u46	I still have a point about this programmatic approach. However, the article does specify the scope, in view of the environmental values, for activities to be carried out in an area over a period of time. We are using such a programmatic approach because we are seeing scarcity somewhere, because we are seeing a problem somewhere. In the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme, the Minister is right: we have a shortage of clean air. You'd like to get as much of that as soon as possible. In the case of emission reductions that allow for additional emissions in other places, we actually have the same problem as in the case of the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u47	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u48	How much space do you create and how much space do you soup up? I would therefore like to include in the article something that, if there is a shortage, this space is in principle distributed proportionally over the period. "In principle" because there can always be a good reason to deviate from it. As a legislator, you must state that the objective is to allocate space in proportion. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u49	I understand this remark, because of course you have to handle the available space wisely. The question is whether this should be regulated by law or whether you can also rely on sensible decisions by drivers and, if drivers are not sensible enough, on the lobby of all interested parties who wish to share the space of use on such a subject. In the case of the PAS, I strongly advocated that we need a great deal of space for all the infrastructure plans that we have in the MIRT up to 2028. The European Parliament has already taken decisions on this, while industry and agriculture have both put their finger on it just as hard. You have to deal with it wisely, but the question is whether you should take this legally. You can also say: this is the essence of the program.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u50	I am glad that the Minister says it should be the essence of the programme. The example of the PAS shows that it is not superfluous. The first proposal of the PAS said that 90% could be made in the first three years. So that was not a sensible distribution over the period. I do not want to say that there can never be a reason to do so, but I want to prevent it from being discussed every time. We could say that, in principle, we are assuming proportional distribution. "In principle" means that you can deviate from it if you have good reasons for doing so. If the Minister says that she thinks that this is at the heart of such a programmed approach, then I can imagine that she does not have any major objections to an amendment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u51	I'm trying to keep the law as simple as possible; I'm trying to keep it as close as possible. You can't predict what's going on today or tomorrow. I mentioned the example of the NSL. In addition, you want to have all the projects running in the first year, because you want to have effect as soon as possible for the year 2016, in which we have to be ready. That is a reason to be in it in a different way than for example with the PAS. By not filling it in, but leaving it to a sensible decision of drivers, depending on the type of program being created, you can achieve a better effect faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u52	I have a question on the same subject. The aim of the Environment Act is to improve the living environment. If we divide into a program the maximum existing space, how do you get the improvements? GroenLinks has previously suggested lowering the ceilings rather than saying what maximum is allowed to regulate the rest completely. It is therefore a question similar to Mrs Van Veldhoven's, but it is about lowering the ceiling while talking about dividing space over time. I think it's too trustworthy to say that the drivers will figure it out. Air quality is national.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u53	That is a very clear question. I didn't say that it was just about directors, but about directors in relation to all stakeholders, because they also move from the natural and environmental angle and also from other angles. The aim of the law is to achieve or improve the living environment, depending on whether or not you have reached the ideal situation in accordance with the legal obligations. That doesn't mean that always improving is an element. Lowering the ceilings is another approach, which apparently comes from GroenLinks. That is the right of GroenLinks, but it is not a national choice to lower the ceiling and to give the space obtained by improvement not back to society but to the environment, for example. That choice has been made explicitly. Where improvement is needed, we use the space to realize it and where the good level has already been achieved, space is free to be used for other activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u54	Then the explicit purpose of that law is not to improve the living environment, but to fill it with the maximum degree of pollution that we can legally get away with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u55	The amount of environmental use that there is, let me put it this way: 'It is something that is established in this Chamber or at European level and on which we are therefore in agreement. 40 micrograms is the norm for particulate matter emissions. If cars become cleaner or other things create more space, they can be used for example for industry or other elements. That's the deal. You can also choose to lower that space, for example 38 micrograms or 30 micrograms. That should be indicated by the Chamber in its entirety. Ultimately, it is a political choice, which in this case is a maximum of 40 micrograms. This means that you can also use any space underneath for other activities, for example to expand the port of Rotterdam or you name it. In general terms, the law leads to the achievement of a good living environment if it is not yet there.This improves the quality of life or the maintenance of a good living environment. That is also explicitly stated in the law. I come to block four: procedures and legal protection. Mr Smaling fears that the outcome of a dispute will become uncertain because you offer so much flexibility and discretion. He wonders whether not everyone will be in court because the purely sectoral approach has made it more complex than before. I'm not afraid of that. I would like to stress that administrative customisation and legal certainty can, in my view, go hand in hand. If you give space, that does not mean that there is less legal certainty. The limits of administrative customization are set in the regulations, both at the law level and in the AMvBs. Limiting is content, for example when and when. It is also procedurally clear, for example when someone reports an equivalent measure in his or her company. Administrative bodies also often clarify in advance the application of administrative customisation in policy rules, in their vision and in their environmental plan. That is clear to the citizen. The frameworks for flexibility are known in advance and provide guidance and predictability. In the end, a decision will be taken on a permit or an amended environmental plan. That decision is as testable to the courts as a decision taken without making use of the flexibility possibilities and is therefore in fact just as enforceable to the competent authority. Nevertheless, Mrs Van Veldhoven also says: Will citizens not more often submit anything to the courts as a result of the flexibility in the balancing area? Doesn't the level of appeal to the judge increase? Can I monitor that? In the note following the report, I would point out that the arrangements can lead to both more and less court cases. A good indicator is that the flexibility offered by earlier laws such as the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Interim City and Environment Act have not led to a run on the courts. I think it's good to have a little look at the little brothers and sisters who came into the world for this law. I trust that will not happen under this law, but of course you never know. I can't watch a coffee dick. I therefore agree that it will be involved in the evaluation of the Environment Act after five years. It will then also be examined whether the use of the flexibility provisions leads to more or less proceedings in the administrative courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u56	It is a very interesting and very important point, in my view. At an earlier stage I said that under the old Law on Spatial Planning it took a relatively long time for something to be authorised, but that the number of lawsuits was then low. When the new law was adopted in 2008, the PBL did an ex-durant monitor and the conclusion was that cases under the new Wro went faster, but more cases were brought to justice. The Crisis and Recovery Act may be behind this, but the professional and objection possibilities are again different from those of the Wro. In other words, you can say that there is a trend towards faster, but not to better. It is especially better for the legal advisers. Isn't that the Minister's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u57	For several reasons, that is not what we are aiming for. We actually force drivers to properly motivate why they use flexibility. After all, they do not have to use it. If they use flexibility, they must motivate it properly, because they must be sure that it lasts. It forces a driver to reach a position on the front much more in good consultation with other parties, because you want to avoid ex post judicial review. Again, similar laws are, in particular, the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Interim Urban and Environmental Approach.................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm willing to look into it as soon as the law is in place. I cannot say at the front: as the courts may be called upon more often, we do not introduce flexibility. This flexibility is, after all, an important part of achieving our spatial challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u58	The Minister then opts more for a "found of business" approach with the idea that you can always fix it if it gets out of hand. I have a sub-question about the enforcement that's still in there. What you gain from time in the licensing process, you actually get back to enforcement. I'm asking you that question. There is also the question of whether enforcement is equipped to deal with all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr. Smaling calls it 'after things'. I would say that on the basis of the good experience so far with the previous legislation, I am confident that it will work well here too. If measures are agreed and they are not in court, it is very clear. If they are under the judge, you may not be able to maintain certain things temporarily. After that, of course, we can do it again. Furthermore, the parties will be cautious as long as a case is under trial. I do not foresee any greater problems than with the regular legislation we have known so far and on the basis of which you could also appeal and object. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Tongeren asked about limiting legal protection to stakeholders only. This is an important subject for her, and that is why she asked me to look at it in the light of the intentions of the Aarhus Convention. Under the Environmental Law, the appeal to the judge becomes no different than it is now. In the Netherlands, interested parties may apply to the Administrative Court if they do not agree with a decision. Access to the Administrative Court is governed by the General Administrative Law Act and not by the Environmental Law. I think it's important to know that. The Convention also gives scope to national legislation on the design of legal protection. Legal protection is and remains in line with the Aarhus Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u60	On the first point, I am reassured. The second question was also about the provision of information. After all, the Aarhus Convention also provides for maximum transparency for public authorities on the environment. But perhaps I am getting ahead of the Minister's text; I see her with some leaves in her papers. Is there a change in the way in which information is provided to citizens and stakeholders, or does it remain at exactly the same level, in line with the recently refreshed by Secretary of State Mansveld...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u61	I believe that we have also had this discussion in committee. Nothing changes in the information system. In fact, I think it will become clearer, for example, because there is also the Lane of the Living Environment, which makes it even faster and easier for individual citizens to have all kinds of information, information that you can also use if you want to engage in a debate with an initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u62	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u63	I know I have to be with another minister for that, but the people in Groningen and now in all other places where there are opportunities for gas drilling are looking at this very differently, and still feel that they have poor access to information. If this law confirms again that it has to, I'll just go back to work with that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u64	I think Mrs Van Tongeren should be very pleased with the Environment Act, because this law forces much more that parties at the front should consult each other, from various interests. Indeed, we still have some sectoral regulations in the ministries; Mrs Van Tongeren is referring in this case to EZ regulations, which are largely incorporated into the Environment Act. This will eventually lead to a different culture, a culture in which people are at work at the front. There is an initiator, and people are looking at what they can do in front of them to involve other stakeholders and reach a good, broad-based decision. It will never always be 100% successful, but this is the essence. Mr Veldman of the VVD would like the initiator to always be able to go to one window for an application. He even wants to go a step further with the one-stop-shop idea, because he also wants someone to be helped by the municipality in terms of content if another administrative authority is also competent. I share Mr Veldman's view that the user is at the forefront. The user can also always submit an application to the municipality. However, the one-stop-shop idea does not go so far as to ensure that the municipality always deals with the content of the permit. The practice shows that the initiator also wants to consult with the person who understands his application, for example the waterboard when it comes to the discharge of substances to the surface water or the province in the event of a complex application for an explanation. To paint an image: 90% of cases are dealt with by the municipality. In a small part of the cases, about 10%, the municipality is not the competent authority. Then the waterboard, the county or the state service will handle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u65	By my question I did not mean that a municipality would take over, for example, the responsibility of a province or a waterboard. What we now see in practice is that someone, for example, should report to the municipal office and that it should be indicated, for example, that that person should be in the province. The same applicant must then have his whole and keep going back to the province, while the first journey may have started with the municipality. What I meant to say is this: if in the future someone walks in at the municipal counter, and if the ongoing process shows that part of the responsibility lies with the province, the municipality must ensure that the process goes through in a natural way, and it is not the applicant who then has to go to the county window with his whole body and hold it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u66	I understand Mr Veldman's question, and I will enter into consultation with the VNG to see if municipalities can take on this transitory role. For example, when it comes to applying for a broader permit, we have agreed with the water boards that the waterboard behind the scenes will assess the permit but the municipality will handle the application, so that the petitioner does not have to talk to both the municipality and the waterboard. However, when it comes to a specific question that is actually only the province, it may sometimes be good to consider whether the UNG can set it up so that everything, if it has already been requested, is forwarded at once. That is how I taste Mr Veldman's question. I can't promise on her behalf right now that it is, but I can promise on my own behalf that I will pass this on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u67	I think we can find each other on the content, so if we pay good attention to it in the governance agreement that is being concluded and in the process that follows after implementation, I think it will be possible to work that way in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. Mr Smaling asks what people can bring in after the preferred decision. What is meant by "everyone" in the uniform, open preparation procedure? After the preferred decision, the project decision will be taken. The preparation of the project decision is carried out in accordance with the uniform, open preparation procedure laid down in Section 3.4 of the General Administrative Law Act. In doing so, anyone can submit views against the draft decision; so really anyone can. So organisations and associations can also submit views; nothing or no one is excluded. Before I move on to block five, I have one more comment on the programmatic approach. I had a discussion on this point, in my view, during the debate on block three, with Mrs Van Veldhoven. I should have said, and I should have said, as an afterburner, that the programmatic approach will also be further developed in the AMvB. I think that's a good place to have a deeper discussion about how to design it. Of course, it can be done now, but there too the programmed approach will have its effect. I'll get to block five. That's about the delivery test, the monitoring and the evaluation. Mr Smaling asked what was left of the delivery test in the Trace Act. Mrs Van Veldhoven has stated that the delivery test or m.e.r. evaluation can provide insight into over- or under-stepping of projects, programmes or plans and required measures. I would like to address both points. The delivery test of the Trace Act only covers air quality, noise and nature. For air, there is already a monitoring obligation, which is also included in the legislative proposal. Nature and sound will follow through the supplemental laws that are now being made. So there's not going to be a generic delivery test. This would lead to a build-up of obligations if you have already legally regulated all those monitoring obligations separately, and I want to reduce those burdens. I'm still considering the possibility of a delivery test at permits. I have mentioned the conditions that this delivery test should meet: count with rules of thumb when applying for a licence, it must be quantifiable effects and there must be an opportunity to take subsequent action. This combination is important, because we want to reduce the research burden and not accumulate the evaluation obligations. The M.E.R. evaluation is, of course, and continues to be, mandatory for plans and programmes, which is also required by the SMB Directive. For projects, the EIA Directive now has no obligation for evaluation. The recent legislative directive does contain rules on monitoring, but its implementation, as I said earlier, is carried out through another legislative proposal, which will also be explicitly discussed in the Chamber. Of course, this regulation will also be included in the Environment Act at the time it enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u69	I have a brief question about this. When we dealt with the Tracé Act and actually replaced Elverding there, we did deal with the delivery test. The following was said at the time. You have a preferred decision, then you're gonna do it. When the product is ready, but does not yet fully meet the environmental requirements set out in the preferred decision, it still needs to be brought up to level. However, it was always unclear who would pay for this. Is there any provision for that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u70	There is now a monitoring obligation in the bill. Nature and noise are also subject to monitoring obligations, through the supplemental laws. You have the environmental values, so you also have a legal guarantee for certain elements, if an environmental value has been set. But also without value you can make policies on that. As far as I am concerned, it was finally secured afterwards. Depending on who the proposer or initiator is, the cost issue will also be addressed, if it is or is not a clear issue at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u71	It doesn't make any sense to me yet. Just take a case: a bypass where decisions are made faster than so far, not ten years but five years. The population agrees, but under certain environmental conditions. The initiator is going to perform and doesn't realize what has been agreed. There's just a gap between what's delivered and what's agreed. Should the initiator close that gap, financially or with additional measures? I'd like to hear exactly what's going on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u72	That is a very easy case, because that will then be a municipal, provincial or state government, depending on the size of the bypass. That government is therefore also responsible for compensating for non-compliance with the agreements made at the front. On a rich level, we do the same with schwung. We are looking at developments in the future, with sound, for example. In that respect, this is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mrs. Van Veldhoven, this is your fourth interruption in an hour. It is not only for you, but I would like to make the point that we said at the beginning, and I do not want to limit the number of interruptions, that we would also be a little reluctant to put an interruption behind every sentence. After all, we also have a third deadline, when we have already had two legislative amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u74	I have already limited myself very much, because I could have placed 16 interruptions in this hour. It's just a very comprehensive bill. I would like to go a little further on this point, which is actually the same point that Mr Smaling raised. A project can use its emissions to go beyond its own predicted values, without filling the total environmental value, which, for example, is set out in a provincial regulation. Then it is important to know if you also have measures in hand in a project, so that you can mitigate those unexpected effects. I agree with the example of a motorway. In a particular area where the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen applies, a certain area has been created and agreements of principle have been made on who can take what. The empire has carte blanche in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u75	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u76	For a national road it is said that it will emit so much, but later it turns out to be half more. If no measures have been taken and if they have not been considered in advance, will you not come to the total environmental value? You still do not get above the ceiling of what may be emitted in total, but the possibilities for agriculture are limited. What's secured in such a situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u77	In principle, of course, the general values are taken into account. The question is whether you can apply them individually. Maybe that depends on what was agreed at the front of such a project. At the front of such a project, it is probably mainly said that the value should remain within 40 micrograms, regardless of what other factors contribute in this area. If we now check whether the road fits within the noise room or the emission space, we will also assess what industry and agriculture are going to do, without knowing exactly whether it will become real. If it turns out that it did not make it, for example, this was discussed at Rotterdam with regard to the speed because the A4 was delivered later............................................................................................................. However, the competent authority remains responsible, including for the additional costs. Whoever took the initiative must do something about it. I'll come back to the subject of individual pieces. I think it's really about the total picture. You have to, because otherwise you're going to capture too much detail. We need to stay within the overall picture a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u78	In the overall picture there can be more space than in that one project. If you don't have a delivery key, you don't know how much such a project goes over the part of the total space that such a project is allowed to soup up at the front. That's where I care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u79	However, we now have a check on the delivery of noise. I have already mentioned air quality and nature. That's three different elements. These elements will also be given their place in the new law. Then there will be a monitoring obligation for nature, sound and air. That doesn't change in that respect. A generic test should not then also be carried out. You'll get a double of the whole thing. Mrs Van Veldhoven wants to know exactly how it turned out on the individual parts. Let me now turn to Mrs Van Veldhoven's question on the Balance sheet for the Environment. It is now sent to the Chamber once every two years. We have said that the European obligation is to do it once every four years. The question was whether I am prepared to do so once every two years, now that so much is going to change. I do not want a headline on European legislation. Therefore, in my final legislation, I would like to go to the European variant once every four years, but I am prepared to keep a frequency of once every two years for the first ten years and to deviate from it. Then it's over and out. I can deal with this in the I and M organisational and mandate decision and in the PBL work programme. So I don't have to settle that by law. Legally speaking, it is therefore agreed every four years, but in the meantime, I will ask for an evaluation every two years through the work programme. Is there an obligation for the Empire to monitor programmes implementing the Birds and Habitats Directives? Yes, the scheme for monitoring nature values is now included in the Nature Protection Bill, which is dealt with approximately simultaneously. This goes into the Environment Act by means of a supplemental law and decree. The same applies to monitoring. I'm getting to block six; we're going through it pretty good. That block is about the digital system. The question is when to plan for the digital system. That planning is part of the governance agreement that we hope to sign next week. In that administrative agreement we also agree which parts will be realized in what order. I can lift a tip from the veil. We are already working on the Environment Window online. In 2016 we will define the concepts and techniques so that the systems can be connected together. In 2017, central and decentralised regulation will be incorporated into the digital system. In 2018, Omschrijvingsstof online, the Activity Decision Internet Module and Spatial Plans.nl will be transformed into a single facility. As I said earlier, this must be minimal what we already have, and preferably more. In the years that follow, we are only going to improve it further. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked whether a test was also provided by the Bureau for ICT Review (BIT). The digital system must comply with the rules and is developed according to them. What does that look like in the construction phase? Upon entry into force, users can request licenses digitally, make notifications digitally, view digital plans and visions and so on. First of all, I look at the user-friendliness and the benefits of the facilities to see what we are going to do first. Every stage we go through must be able to be treated as an independent phase, so that we do not run out of time with the whole system if we want to make an adjustment. In the final view, users can see the quality and the rules that apply to each location with one click on the map. That's very nice. You'll never have to get out of your chair again to see what's happening around you. Some people want to get out of their seats, I understand from the gestures, but if you want to demolish a garage or if you want to cut a tree to realize a large extension in the garden, you can click on the environmental plan and immediately see what rules apply to demolition, cutting and building. Then you can apply for your license. Mrs Van Tongeren wondered how people can access the information while the Lane of the Environment is still being established. During the renovation, the shop remains open. The implementation of the Aarhus Convention is currently satisfactory. The current systems, such as the Atlas Environment, continue to provide their services during the creation of the Lane of the Environment. With the arrival of the Laan van de Leefenvironment, the offer is also expanded and accessibility is improved. Mr Veldman has asked if I am prepared to inform the Chamber annually about the progress of the Laan van de Levenenvironment. I will. I will inform the Chamber annually in the implementation monitor about the progress of the Lane of the Environment. I come now happy block seven, the block on implementation and implementation. There has been a request for the introduction guidance and the administrative agreement. I will send the administrative agreement to the Chamber after I have reached agreement with the co-governments. I expect to be able to do that next week. I also make agreements there on introduction guidance. I'll monitor that every year and I'll inform the Chamber. The progress monitor includes the degree of progress of implementation, the extent to which the improvements are being achieved, the effectiveness of the implementation programme, the extent to which the municipalities are ready in terms of expertise, organisation and adaptation of work processes, which is very important, because of course there is a lot going on with them and the progress of building the digital system. It is also obvious to link an independent judgement to the implementation monitor. This is particularly true of the extent to which improvements are achieved. Mr Veldman asks if I am prepared to agree with the domes that we will be reluctant to deal with decentralised rules and to evaluate them. That's very important to me, too. I have called on them throughout the process in all the administrative sessions that at the time we create space at a rich level, which should not be cleared up at regional or local level. The elaboration of the detailed rules is a responsibility of the co-governments, but I am confident that they will be reluctant to deal with the setting of rules, because they themselves always state that in these consultations. At the same time, the implementation monitor will show us to what extent we are achieving the improvements of the Environment Act. Then I will also look at this reluctant handling of the regulation. If all the local and regional colleagues I am dealing with and who are active in the field of spatial planning have responded very positively, but should this work out differently in practice, we will have to look at it quite quickly. As a result of the results of that monitor, I will have another conversation with the fellow governments. A strict separation is made between the municipality's customer contact centre and the environmental point. Mrs Van Veldhoven has asked: why don't you take off the environmental complaints at the environmental point? I agree with her that you should be able to find information in one place. That's our endgame, too. For citizens and most businesses, the municipality is the first contact point. That makes sense in itself. However, the environmental point of contact is currently set up to apply for permits rather than for the submission of environmental complaints. It is important that a complaint reaches the competent authority as soon as possible and that there are no formal obstacles to complaints. For that, you have the General Administrative Law. Standard procedure is that complaints are sent to the right point of contact, if the wrong government is approached. I can imagine that the complaints will eventually become part of the digital system, but then you will have to make new agreements with administrative partners. First of all, I want to start with the rather complicated task of giving the permits a place in it. It has been asked whether the municipalities are allowed to define policy frameworks for the performance of tasks by the Environment Service for Brzo companies and whether something is changing for the ILT and for the security regions because of the regulation of these companies. Most of the Brzo companies are not responsible for the municipalities, but the provinces. The aim is that as of 1 January 2016 there will be a competent authority for all Brzo companies per province. Six specialised environmental services carry out the VTH tasks for those companies on behalf of the provinces. The provinces have some scope, but work is being done towards a uniform approach for the Brzo companies, such as a rural Brzo enforcement strategy and the same quality requirements for Brzo environment services. The Brzo environment services, the ILT, the SZW inspection and the security regions carry out their current tasks and cooperation between them is further strengthened. In other committees, I think we are also discussing this extensively, but this is just for the sake of consistency with the debate that the Chamber also has in another place. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if the ombud function for municipalities could be promoted through the VNG, given the good experience with it. In general, I think it is a good idea for municipalities to have an ombudsman. My text says 'an ombudsman or ombudswoman', but 'ombudsman' is simply a term that has nothing to do with man or woman. The municipal law therefore provides for a regulation for that ombud function. Many municipalities also have this ombud function. This function is wider than environmental law. It will therefore have to apply to the promotion. I will therefore submit her suggestion to my colleague from BZK. Mr De Vries asks whether high trust also leads to high penalty. That is also a fair question. He asked: what are the sanctions if companies do not follow the rules? Companies which do not comply with the rules should be maintained. You can simply apply the existing administrative sanctions, periodic penalty payments and administrative sanctions. In the event of serious violations, you can take criminal action, with the D.A. taking the lead. A national enforcement strategy has been established for the application of sanctions in the administrative consultation with municipalities, provinces and OM. I agree with him that if you get trust, you have to live up to that. If you don't deliver, you have to be dealt with in proportion. Mr Smaling said that there were many municipalities, including in other areas. There are complaints about high workload and lack of expertise. He asked me if I'd consider that part of the Environment Act. Of course, the success of this reform of the system lies in its implementation. For that, I will be extremely dependent on the municipalities and how they should do it. Municipalities are crucial to also implement the intentions of the Environment Act. I started very early with the municipalities, the VNG, the IPO and the Union of Water Boards to prepare the implementation. In fact, I do not know of any legislative process in which implementation started so early. Even before the Chamber could have given me a glimpse of whether she agrees or not, I thought it would be useful to see how it should be introduced. With the implementation monitor we measure annually whether we are on track and whether municipalities are ready in terms of expertise, organisation or adaptation of the work processes. So I can also adjust in the meantime. I will try to support in all kinds of ways where that is possible. In this way I can always keep an eye on whether the implementation practice is ready to go at the pace of implementation. And yes, there is a lot going for municipalities, sometimes in very other areas too. It is therefore sometimes also about other specialists in other areas of interest, but it remains so that it is easy to deal with a law here, but it has to be implemented elsewhere. Municipalities therefore deserve our full support in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u80	I have a quick question. Does that mean that enforcement will also be targeted, so that enforcers can work with the Environment Act as soon as possible, enforcement will be another nice profession that is appreciated, and enforcers are not just bogeymen in the eyes of the public?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u81	We will try to support in all kinds of ways. Sometimes that can be by creating manuals or helping with some sort of standard regulation. Sometimes that can be by supporting enforcement if that demand is actually from the municipality. Actually, the answer is simple: yes. It kind of depends on the questions that exist. Then I'll be on the block of financial securities. Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling asked an identical question about this: when will the results of the review of the system come? This year an additional financial investigation will be carried out with the co-governments as a result of the drafting of the administrative agreement. It reflects the financial impact of each component of the system review, including AMvBs, implementation law and supplemental laws. As always, the Chamber will be informed about the financial effects in the treatment of an AMvB's law or the front of an AMvB. This year's research is under way. If the AMvBs are there, the information on the financial side will also be sent to the Chamber. It has been asked whether the system will generate more implementation costs for municipalities. Mrs Dik-Faber heard sounds from practice that the costs would not go down. The starting point for new regulation is that the burden on all interested parties will be reduced. I'll bet on that. That worked out well for the law. It is estimated that the burden on municipalities will fall structurally by between 35 and 51 million euros. That is a sum of costs and benefits. The benefits are therefore higher than the costs. I'm still working on implementing regulations. The costs and benefits thereof will be determined at a later date. I am confident that there too it will be possible to reduce the administrative burden. The implementation costs will be taken into account in the presentation of the financial impact of the system review. I'll make arrangements with the co-governments about that. Yes, of course I also hear sounds that although it sounds nice that there are less administrative burdens, people are afraid that other things will disappear, or that it will cost more money to train people. That is why we have independent experts looking at the cost-benefit picture. I am still very positive about what this would bring, and I hope that this will ultimately encourage the various governments to invest themselves to make this possible, for example in the Laan for the Living Environment. Mr De Vries asked whether after the entry into force the results of the financial investigations were in conformity with reality. He's proposing to do this after five years. I can imagine. He therefore wants to have a test carried out on the financial effects after the impact is visible in practice. That's a logical thought. I will take the request with me on the arrangements to be made with the co-governments in the framework of the Administrative Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u82	A very short question. Are the costs of supervision and enforcement included in the promised cost and benefit study?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u83	All costs are shown. We have begun to introduce the law. Then comes the implementing rules. There are also costs for monitoring and enforcement. Two procedural questions were asked at block nine. The first was whether the opinion of the Council of State on the introduction law for submission to the Lower House is sent. That is a constitutional requirement, so that will happen. The current planning is as follows. The first draft AMvBs will be placed before the House of Representatives in 2016. The bill for the introduction law is submitted to the Lower House a year later. The request for advice to the Council of State on the AMvBs and the introduction law will take place simultaneously. In dealing with the introduction law, the Chamber has both the Council of State's opinion on the bill and the four AMvBs. Mr Smaling asks whether I take with me the recommendations which the Council has sent for the environment and infrastructure for the examination in the Chamber. The Board makes some recommendations for the national environmental vision, such as a system for participation in the lead path, integrality of decisions with many interests, but also a limited consideration if not, as is the case with several permits. The Council supports the need to provide more space with safeguards through careful and clear decisions. I see the council's advice as supporting the bill. We will certainly take with us the valuable recommendation for the follow-up, with attention to all the dimensions that the board appoints. I am already working on it and, of course, I will establish a link between the development of the environmental vision and the implementation regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u84	Were you done with this cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u85	Yes, I only have two more points that I said I would come back to in connection with the discussion. This was about the delivery test and Mrs Van Veldhoven's question about the programmatic approach to the national road example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u86	Can the Minister explain the planning? We deal with the AMvBs in 2016, but only in 2017 will we receive the advice of the Council of State on both the AMvBs and the implementation law. What are the possibilities for the Court to revert to the treatment of the AMvBs in the introduction law, for example, following the report of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u87	The Chamber deals with the AMvBs. By the introduction law, the Chamber has every opportunity to change what has been decided by the AMvBs. One can say, for example, that a standard contained in the AMvBs should still be included in the main law. The delivery key. Mr Smaling asked who was paying for the measures. At AMvB I'm going to determine which permits the delivery test can be applied specifically. This can only be done in combination with rules of thumb when applying for a permit. The delivery test will then be included in the permit requirement. The initiator must pay for the measures. I'm going to call it explicit. If the generic monitor shows that standards are exceeded and measures have to be taken with regard to the generic monitor, then it is the government. So it depends on the initiator. Mrs Van Veldhoven asked about the programmatic approach, if the Empire, for example, decides on the national road, in relation to the delivery test. We do general monitoring and an m.e.r. evaluation in large plans, but if a project leads to a lot of environmental pollution, then you can really see the great culprit in the general monitoring or the m.e.r. evaluation. If a smaller project is unexpectedly overvalued, you don't see that in total. Well, then that's annoying, but that's actually not a problem, because you're gonna make it anyway. The same applies to the budget. If a post is a bit disappointing, it should not be a problem, if you stay within the budget in its entirety. We are also constantly monitoring the NSL and we are also taking measures there. I shall now turn to the new amendments that have been tabled. The amendment in part No. 111 has just been tabled, so it takes a little more time to respond. Maybe I can come back to that later. We have already dealt with many amendments in writing. I now turn to the new amendments tabled from item No. 102. In the amendment to item No. 102 member Smaling of the SP is requested to obtain an "revision permit on request" instead of an "ambital revision permit." The amendment aims to be able to request information, which the competent authority needs to determine whether the licence is up-to-date, for example because of best existing techniques. I agree that the law must provide for this. This amendment seeks to regulate this with an on-demand revision permit, which leads to unnecessary burdens. What has already been authorised needs to be reclaimed. The Environment Act provides for the possibility to request the data via direct jurisdiction, without the disadvantages of the revision permit on request. Article 16.54 allows the competent authority to request the necessary information from the company. Moreover, the legislative proposal also contains other options for a revision permit on request, but clearly defined, so that everyone knows what they are up to, and also as an automatic decision, so that the competent authority is actively involved. I therefore reject this amendment. The amendment in part No. 103 by Mr De Vries and Mrs Van Veldhoven are concerned with ensuring the provision of drinking water in the law. This is an amendment to item No. 65. The change is limited. In my letter, I gave "judge chamber," and it stays that way. The amendment in part No. 104 belongs to Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66 and Mr Ronnes of the CDA. That amendment clarifies that on roads and waterways route networks are also intended for hiking, cycling and sailing. I welcome the adjustment of an earlier amendment, namely No. 51, which I didn't advise. Recreational infrastructure is very important for the health of many citizens. It is also a relevant part of the physical environment. Its management is a relevant task for local authorities. However, I have never wanted to take over this task of the local authorities as a national interest, so the clarification in the definition of infrastructure seems fine to me. I support the amendment. The amendment in part No. 105 was tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven. This amendment deletes the limitation to a balanced allocation of functions to locations from the powers of instruction of the Empire. As I said in the debate with Mrs Van Veldhoven, the power of instruction is there for situations where a fairly open mandate requires further concreteisation. This is a task to be carried out. It is precisely in open assignments such as "good spatial planning" and its successor, "a balanced allocation of functions to locations," that there is therefore a need for an instructional capacity. The power to take an instructional decision has been deliberately limited to what is now regulated in the Spatial Planning Act and the Water Act. There has also been no need for such an instrument outside. The power of instruction does not need to be wider either, because it is not intended for job neglect. For this we know instruments in the Municipal Act and in the Province Act. For example, the Revitalisation Act on generic supervision, for inter-administrative supervision, strengthens this. The scope of the power of instruction was discussed in depth with the VNG and the IPO in the run-up to the legislative proposal. You know the discussions about getting out of it maybe, or maybe not, but there was no blood on the wall just yet, so to speak. That is understandable, because the instruction intervenes with the municipalities. In view of the sensitive discussion about administrative relations, I would advise against this amendment. Mr Bishop has tabled an amendment aimed at tightening the limits on the exercise of powers by provinces. Article 2.3 of the bill forces provinces to exercise their powers more reluctantly than they do now towards municipalities and water authorities. Provinces should sometimes also be able to exercise a competence if it is effective or effective. That is no longer possible with this amendment. Nor is the amendment necessary in view of the agreement between the VNG and the IPO on this matter. Furthermore, as far as I am concerned, it is also contrary to the principle of 'decentralised, unless', because if there is no provincial interest and leaving to municipalities is not effective and effective, then it forces centralization at a state level. I therefore advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u88	Is this about the amendment to item No. 107?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u89	In part No. 106.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u90	Yet in part No. 106. Okay. It might be useful to mention the song for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u91	Yeah, excuse me. I come to the amendment to item No. 107, Madam President. Its purpose is to make the principle of subsidiarity explicitly applicable to the national and provincial environments. The principle of subsidiarity is only raised if the application of a power or instrument removes parts of the care for the physical environment from other administrative bodies. This is not the case in establishing the environmental vision. It's just self-binding. It may well be that the Empire or a province in its own environmental vision describes something as a national or a provincial interest, but that does not yet affect the powers of a lower administrative body. Another instrument, such as an instruction or project decision, still needs to be used, and this is either governed by the principle of subsidiarity or by the principle of subsidiarity. The application of the principle of subsidiarity is therefore not necessary in the context of the environmental vision, but in the case of an instruction or project decision it is applicable. I therefore recommend that this amendment be rejected. 107. The author of the amendment to item No. 108 is Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. This is a technical adjustment of the amendment to item No. 87. The scope hasn't changed. The judgment I gave in the letter, namely "dissuade," remains the same, with the same motivation. I come to the amendment to item No. 109 by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Veldhoven, on Articles 5.45, 5.46 and 5.49. Its purpose is to set out in advance principles for solutions to a project, to provide an opportunity for the competent authority to request expert advice on citizens' initiatives and to provide a duty to motivate how the citizens' initiatives have been handled. We've talked extensively about participation. We agreed to see if we could come together at this point. I'm glad you did. I share the view that alternatives should be considered seriously by third parties and that support can sometimes help with this. Clarifying principles is transparent. This also ensures that citizens know what solutions are possible. An expert opinion can also help with this. This amendment now gives room for tailor-made work, while at the same time reinforcing that citizens' initiatives should be considered seriously and should have a chance. Yesterday I tweeted about a variant of a walk-in evening, where you saw everyone with orange hoes going through nature, in the area where the participation was about. I liked that example of something you can never capture in advance. I therefore support the Amendment No 2 tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the The Veldman amendment in part No. 110 is about the programmatic approach. The amendment clarifies that the programmed approach may include the modification and withdrawal of permits to be used for the implementation of the umbrella concept developed for the port area in Rotterdam. The umbrella concept also offers opportunities for application under the Environmental Act. The programmed approach is one of the tools for sharing the use area. The programme may also comment on whether or not it is desirable to amend rules or withdraw authorisations. This is sometimes necessary, because existing companies take up room for use differently and there is no room for new ones. The amendment clarifies this. This is not strictly necessary from a legal point of view. I therefore leave this amendment to the House because it is supportive of what we are already doing. That leaves the amendment to item No. 111 which I have not yet received and on which I have not yet been judged. I hope that will come at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u92	I have a comment to make on the amendment to item No. 110. The Minister explained in her earlier argument that the dome permit is in the law. It is now clarified by this amendment. For the Labour Party, it is still important to know whether this instrument can also be used to make agreements with a conglomerate to reduce noise. This can be done, for example, by determining that best technical means must always be used to reduce the operating space rather than stretching it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u93	If a group of parties tries to arrive at a joint licence application and reports to the competent authority, the competent authority can always say: we are quite willing to do so, provided that it fits within our own policy. If our own policy is to reduce, for example, the amount of noise or emissions, this could be done. A good example is the port of Rotterdam, which has bound itself to the fact that so much of the goods have to be carried by train, so much per cent on the water and so much per cent on the road. We have therefore made our own agreements on the contribution to the improvement of the living environment. The municipality cannot, of course, impose requirements on a dome that it would not impose on individual companies, because it would then become a kind of blackmail mechanism. But that is not what Mr De Vries means either, I think. (NL) Mr President, I should like to leave it at that while waiting for the amendment on item No. 111.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u94	Thank you. We have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u95	The next item is the third term of office. I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD Group. As agreed, we are following the order of speakers in the legislative consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we finish the discussion of the Environment Act. Let me begin by complimenting the Minister and her officials once again on the huge job that has been done. Hats off for the clarity and clarity of both the law itself and the process so far. In the first two periods, we have already stressed this: current environmental law is too complicated, has viscous processes and no longer fits in with the flexibility that is required at present. Let me repeat a few more examples. There were 1,000 permits needed for the extension of the A15, a 35 kilometer stretch between the Vaanplein and the Maasvlakte. In my own city of Nijmegen, the second bridge over the Waal, a bridge of 1.4 kilometres long, required 148 permits. That's one permit per 10 meters. That shows that things can and must be different. So it is high time for a far-reaching simplification of the laws and regulations: from 26 laws back to 1 Environment Act and from 120 General Administrative Measures back to 4. The Environmental Law that is now in place is the foundation for the new environmental law. Much will be worked out in the 4 AMvBs. These 4 AMvBs are also subject to the principle that simplification and less rules should be paramount in the case of the VVD. The VVD would like to keep its finger on the wrist for this. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that one of the four improvements to the system review of environmental law is to increase the clarity, predictability and ease of use of environmental law;]] [[considers that a reduction in regulatory pressure can make an essential contribution to this;]] [[Whereas it is only when the regulatory framework in the AMMs (General Administrative Measure) is drawn up that it becomes clear what concrete impact this can have on the regulatory burden;]] [[calls on the Government to re-consult the Advisory Board on Regulatory Pressure Review (Actal) on the financial impact of the implementing rules on the regulatory burden and to inform the Second Chamber of the conclusions of Actal,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u97	One question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u98	The argument was just that this law simplifies and simplifies environmental law so much. The motion requests that we examine whether that is the case. Does my colleague now know that this law makes it so much easier, or does he seriously doubt it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u99	I don't doubt that, but I'd like to keep the finger on the wrist. If Actal finds out about something that ends up in the AMvB's that it could be a bit sharper, then I have that advice, that image. Mrs Van Tongeren, like me, knows that there is still a lot to be done in these AMvBs. I would like to make sure at the front that the House of Representatives is properly informed about the fact that the reduction in the regulatory pressure we are aiming for is actually taking place. Actal can do this in a good way, as it has shown in other cases before. In the second term, I have already exchanged views with the Minister on how we look at the one-stop shop idea. Indeed, I did not intend to transfer responsibility from one administrative body to another, but rather to ensure that the applicant is properly served. He will be if he is not sent from the cabinet to the wall and a warm transfer takes place from one administrative body to another. I welcome the Minister's commitment to direct it towards provinces and municipalities. I would like to ask her to inform the Chamber of the results of this kind of consultation so that we can see that the idea we share about how this one window should work is realised. In the first term, I indicated that the law as offered to the Chamber is a very liberal law. With a number of amendments, the VVD wants to tighten up a few more things. I will add a few more motions to this today. Article 219 of the Municipal Law states that taxes at local level should not be made dependent on income, profit or capital. Therefore, the VVD is a thorn in the eye that this does happen with, for example, the sewer charge, because it is linked to the WOZ value. This means that only homeowners pay for the sewer, instead of all users. This does not fit in with the idea that the polluter should pay, which is also shared in this Chamber. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are municipalities that distinguish between buyers and tenants in contributions through charges for general public facilities such as sewers and waste;]] [[noting that rules on sewer charges are governed by the Municipal Act and rules on waste taxation in the Environmental Management Act;]] [[considers that the distinction between buyers and tenants for general public services such as sewers is not desirable under the polluter-pays principle;]] [[having also noted that the second paragraph of Article 219 of the Municipal Law provides that the amount of a municipal tax may not be made dependent on income, profits or assets;]] [[calls on the Government, by means of an amendment to Article 219, second paragraph, of the Municipal Law, to ensure that a municipal tax or tax is levied. levy for a general provision such as the sewer should not be made dependent on the ownership of a connected property, but should be regulated through residence (except for those not connected to sewers, for example),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Ronnes and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u100	You may ask one question about the motion tabled, should that be relevant to your voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u101	I wonder whether Mr Veldman is at the right place in this debate with this motion. Shouldn't this subject be dealt with by the law in which he expects an amendment? I don't think this has anything to do with the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u102	I have had to observe that charges for facilities such as sewers, but also waste taxes, are partly regulated by the Municipal Law, and partly by the Environmental Management Act. Today we are talking about the Environment Act, which also contains an element around the sewer. It seems to me that this is an appropriate time to call on the cabinet to finally regulate in the Municipal Law that no distinction can be made between people who own a house and people who live in a rental house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u103	If I am correct, the VVD is a party that is represented by the local, provincial and national authorities. I thought that party always felt that responsibilities should be dealt with as close to the citizen as possible. What does Mr Veldman have to do to table this motion? Doesn't he have faith in his directors at the local level? That's crazy, isn't it? Or did I lose something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u104	It is true that the VVD as a party, and the members of the VVD in this Chamber are represented at several levels, unlike other members in this Chamber. What matters is that we obey the law. Article 219 of the Municipal Law states that taxes may not be made dependent on income, profit or capital. In practice, we see that this will happen. If you tax people on the basis of property or property........................................................................................................ In practice, this is not handled properly. We have also seen, in practice, that there have been legal procedures over which this has not been made clear. We would like to make this clear now. Charges for sewers or waste should be applied bearing in mind what I believe the majority of this House wants immediately, on the basis of the 'polluter pays' principle. This can therefore not be done through ownership, but through use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u105	The answers are supposed to be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u106	The motion sounds very sympathetic. The Christian Union also stands for the "polluter pays" principle. However, my name is not included in the motion, because we have come to the conclusion, on closer consideration and further consideration of the motion, that this is an enormous burden on tenants. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u107	That is certainly not the intention. Some argue that the problem resolves itself, because it is passed on to tenants in the rent. I have often said at local level that this does not always work that way in practice. The sewer charge sometimes goes up by up to 20% a year and down by 15% in the following year. That can't always be taken into account in the rent. If we do this in a structural way with a levy based on the use, then the effect may be that, where it is now included in the rent, the rent will fall. I had stuck to the premise that the law should be simple and better. This approach is achieved on many points, but according to the VVD could be even better by introducing a dome concept. The Minister has indicated that it is governed by the law and that it can be done in practice. I've looked hard for it, but I haven't been able to find it sharp enough. In fact, the word "dome" is not found in the law or in the explanatory statement. That is why I have tabled an amendment to ensure that we guarantee the umbrella concept properly. I believe that industrial complexes, so that the Rotterdam Port or Chemelot Site in Limburg, which the Minister mentioned, will benefit from an integrated territorial approach. This gives clarity both for companies and for residents about the location possibilities and the quality of the environment to be preserved. The VVD also wants to give more space for customisation and an integrated area approach in urban areas. In certain urban areas where there is also activity, people would like to live, even if environmental standards are exceeded. The VVD would like to give local authorities the opportunity to make choices in this area by allowing permanent derogations from environmental standards in certain areas. I have tabled an amendment on this subject, but I also come up with a motion that will guide the drafting of that amendment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the event of the transformation of areas, all environmental standards may not be met, while an attractive residential environment can be achieved due to good location;]] [[noting that environmental standards may then hinder desirable spatial developments;]] [[noting that the current regime for development areas in the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Interim Urban and Environmental Approach Act are not visibly reflected in the proposal for the Environment Act;]] [[Whereas, in future cases, it should also be possible to balance interests more broadly by the City Council, sometimes including permanent deviations from environmental standards;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the proposed Decision quality of living environment a scheme providing for the possibility of derogations by analogy with the scheme for development areas in the Crisis and Recovery Act and the regulation of the Interim City and Environmental Approach Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u108	The Crisis and Recovery Act belongs to the Empire. This would enable municipal councils to organise second-class housing for second-class citizens. It is very cheap, but you do have higher emissions, with more noise or with another problem. Is that really what my colleague is proposing? Does he no longer want one basic level for all residents? Does he want a second-rate level for residents with probably a lower rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u109	It is a pity that Mrs Van Tongeren sees this as such, because I am talking about those locations where there are unique opportunities for realising housing. It is not necessarily a question of cheap housing, even more so, perhaps it is a question of very expensive housing. There are areas where people really want to live, but where there may be activity on the outskirts, which does not go away and may even want to grow. On parts you run into existing borders. I think that we should give municipalities the room, as we now have in the Crisis and Recovery Act, to apply tailor-made measures, so as to be able to weigh up locally: this area is so unique, where we want to develop housing and give existing activities the chance to sit and grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u110	I think it's an interesting idea. You can also think of people who, for example, want to live outside dike in a beautiful river area. They will not be able to count on the same protection as if they were living behind the dike. There are now many obstacles to this. Of course, we also want to protect people from themselves a little bit. The rules have been drawn up for this in principle. How is Mr Veldman's example to assess whether people really know what they are choosing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u111	It is up to local drivers to consider whether it is permitted in that area. This can be done on the basis of advice from others, but also, for example, on the basis of the advice of a waterboard, as in Mrs Van Veldhoven's example. It is not about what an individual wants in this, but about the consideration of local directors, a college of B and W and a city council in relation to terrain. In some municipalities we see old industrial sites, which are almost empty and where excellent housing can take place, but where there is still activity on the outskirts. This activity remains and then that location can be very suitable for housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u112	Wouldn't it be purer to question the limit values? Then we are talking about general measures, matters that we are talking about. My sub-question is how it is possible for Mr Veldman to give the municipalities that space to make all kinds of decisions here, while he thought very differently two motions ago. Then he didn't have that much faith in the local drivers. Or am I wrong about that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mr Houwers is certainly wrong about the latter. I have just explained to him that the Community law lays down conditions for the way in which taxes may be levied. In practice, we see that local directors do not always follow the rules. On the contrary, I do not want to change the general standards. In fact, it would be generic, across the Netherlands, to increase environmental standards. Mrs Van Tongeren would not be happy about that either. That's exactly what we don't want. We want to make it possible for those unique locations in municipalities to apply customization and to deviate from the generic rule we do have for the rest of the country, because we have set a European or national standard for what we consider decent in terms of environmental use space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u114	I can imagine when Mr Veldman talks about unique areas. I am thinking of the Hembrug site or old railway sites. Of course, we have the example abroad with Hamburg, where through this system a beautiful living environment has been realized where everyone lives pleasantly. But that's only a very limited number of places you have to look very carefully at. If that is what Mr Veldman is referring to, I think that his motion is a little more lenient than Mrs Van Tongeren's explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u115	That's exactly what I'm talking about. The example of the Hembrug site in Zaanstad, cited by Mr De Vries, is now covered by the Crisis and Recovery Act. I would like us to be able to deal with this properly in the Environment Act. I agree with him that we shouldn't do that everywhere. That is exactly the answer I gave Mr Houwers. I do not want to change generic standards, but I want to create the opportunity for those unique locations that we have in some cities. I had prepared a motion on the 'Lean of the Environment', which is an essential pillar of the revision of environmental law. I welcome the Minister's commitment that the Chamber will be informed on an annual basis about the progress made in setting up the 'Lean of the Environment', so that we can follow in this Chamber whether things are progressing well and whether the right steps are being taken, despite all pitfalls, for example, in ICT. With me, many people in daily practice have now noticed that the Ladder of sustainable urbanisation has missed its goal and has counterproductive consequences. There is an unnecessary amount of research and legal scabbarding. I welcome the Minister's commitment to include this observation in the evaluation and to see what she can do about it at a later date. However, I shall table a motion because I would like to take some steps in the front. I do not want to wait until the evaluation, but I want to take steps where possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is criticism of the functioning of the sustainable urbanisation ladder;]] [[noting that a monitor of the PBL shows that the ladder for sustainable urbanisation is barely applied;]] [[noting that an evaluation of the sustainable urbanisation ladder will take place at the latest in early 2017;]] [[Whereas this leaves little room to include a modified ladder for sustainable urbanisation in the implementing rules of the Environmental Act;]] [[calls on the government to use a simplification of the ladder for sustainable urbanisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u116	This motion also raises questions. Does Mr Veldman mean that municipalities should rather say no and not flee in research? If that's what he means, I think it's a very positive motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u117	In practice, research is now being requested after research, but municipalities have to say either yes or no. They should not come to a decision only after examination, after examination, after examination. In this way everyone is especially occupied for a very long time and there is often a screaming about the values of these reports. A quick yes or a quick no is often much better in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u118	There is certainly something to say about the Ladder for sustainable urbanization. My group has therefore prepared a motion for a resolution on this matter. Isn't it much better to bet on improving the instrument than choosing the route proposed by the VVD Group now? If we improve the instrument with each other by building those steps that make it a good tool for achieving sustainable choices, municipalities will have much more to do with us. They are going to use the instrument much more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u119	I fully agree that the instrument needs to be improved. I described it in the motion as simplifying the current ladder. If we can agree on the view that simplification can also be an improvement, we could just agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u120	In itself, I can follow Mr Veldman's line of thinking, but the Ladder for sustainable urbanisation is also used in case law to allocate or not allocate decisions taken in legal proceedings. Suppose a province is trying to counter a development, what legal possibility does one have there to achieve that other than through the Ladder of sustainable urbanization?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u121	That is why I call on the Minister to take steps already to simplify the ladder. You rightly refer to the case law around the ladder. Moreover, this case law has not led to any simplification of the use of the ladder. The intention was so simple, namely a simple check whether or not an area is suitable for the developments one is looking for or if there are other areas available that are better suited for that purpose. The latter could mean that there is no need to develop a new area. That is exactly what I am trying to do: simplify and reduce the complexity of the case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u122	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u123	The VVD believes that initiators are too often told afterwards that their plans cannot continue. This is done on the basis of far too detailed requirements of well-being. From this taste police we really have to say goodbye in 2015. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the environmental law provides for the possibility for municipalities to set up an advisory committee (Article 17.9);]] [[Considers that at the end of the planning process, assessing in detail whether reasonable welfare requirements are met is less appropriate in the spirit of the Environmental Law, namely as much consultation as possible on the front;]] [[noting that promoters should already indicate how interested parties and local residents are involved in an application when applying for a permit;]] [[calls on the government, in the implementation process of the Environment Act, to encourage municipalities to use the Advisory Committee (as mentioned in Article 17.9) to advise and challenge initiators at the front of the process in order to achieve their plans with as much quality and consensus as possible and to gradually phase out welfare surveillance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman and Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u124	With this last motion, which seeks to be based on quality rather than boarded-up regulation, I conclude. I have already said it in the first place: spatial development in the Netherlands since the Second World War can be described in three different periods: from reconstruction to Delta Works to bureaucracy. The first period is the determination and absolute necessity of reconstruction. The need, solidarity and gratitude for engineers have led to many results in those early years. The second period, after the flood disaster, began with the Delta Works. New techniques were applied and the results we know. Read the newspapers from that time, ask a planner or a driver from that time how he feels and the atmosphere is one of overcoming the elements of nature, a sense of euphoria. The last step has been taken since the 1980s. Emerging prosperity ensures that we introduce into legislation standards for the health and safety of people and later on those for the flora and fauna on the conveyor belt. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but it all becomes very luxurious and at the same time very complicated. Now ask a planner what he is proud of when a road, a neighborhood or a center has been delivered. He will say: we have survived years of procedures, we have overcome opposition, overcome regulation and other obstacles, and we have succeeded, we can finally build. Not a word about whether the development is beautiful, good or desirable. That is a sad observation. But with the new Environment Act and a good translation into AMvB's, the answer will be to a initiator in five years' time: we have created a fantastic place here with stakeholders and other stakeholders in the Netherlands, a place where users feel responsible and where they are part of, a place that will still be of great importance for the people who live, work and live there for years to come. Such an answer is, as far as I am concerned, the ambition we must have. Such an answer will also be given after the entry into force of the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u125	Mr. Chairman. Like my colleague, I congratulate the Minister and her team on the enormous amount of work that has been done to bring this law into being and, above all, on the consultation with all Members of Parliament in order to achieve a reasonable amendment. Both in the first and in the second term, I said that the Labour Party is positive about the Environment Act. The law combines the forest of different laws and regulations into one clear law with four implementing regulations. Easier and more insight into environmental law is important. We find the first social objective of the law, the achievement and maintenance of a safe and healthy physical environment and a healthy quality of the environment an asset. We also welcome the promotion of area-based integrated development and early involvement of stakeholders. We believe that in this way better, more creative and more sustainable solutions can be found for bottlenecks created by intensive use in our small and full country. What we are not positive about is chapter 12 of the law on land policy. Everything stays the same. In our opinion, this cannot be done after the big real estate crisis. We believe that a thorough discussion on this issue is needed in the Land Act and that the Cabinet should respond to opinions of the VROM Council, the Rli, the House Awards Committee and the Parliamentary Motion-Paulus Jansen c.s. on the right to self-realization. I have already announced a motion on this in the first term and here she is. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the draft law on environmental law contains provisions on land exploitation;]] [[Whereas, following the debate on the report of the Temporary Committee on House Prices on 11 March 2014, the Paulus Jansen/Koolmees/Monasch motion on research into the effects of self-realisation (33194, no. 12), in which the Chamber requests that the effects of self-realization be thoroughly examined and shared with the Chamber;]] [[whereas the letter of 1 April 2015 from the Minister for Housing and National Service states that research is currently under way on the subjects mentioned in the motion and that the Minister expects to be able to inform the Lower House of the results of the survey in the summer;]] [[calls on the Government to take account of the findings of the investigation referred to in the Paulus Jansen and Others motion. examine whether the provisions of the environmental law on land exploitation need to be supplemented or revised in order to improve the functioning of the legal provisions for implementation practice and, if necessary, to implement them through the Land Property Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u126	In addition to the transition in the social domain, the Environment Act means a transition in the physical domain. Here too, municipalities are given more tasks and powers, allowing more tailor-made work to be done. This is urgently needed because regional differences in the Netherlands are increasing. Initiators can more easily realize their plans faster and cheaper. That, too, is a profit. Now that the economy is getting better, the Labour Party hopes that this will also facilitate the creation of jobs. After the discussion in first and second term we have the confidence that it should be possible to make the Netherlands more beautiful with the Environmental Act. First, the Nature Protection Act will become part of the Environment Act. This law contains many elements from our initiative paper Mooi Nederland, presented together with GroenLinks and D66, which we are still proud of. Secondly, we expect a great deal of ex ante advice in terms of building and decorating. This can be done if the advisory committee referred to in Article 17.9 is used by municipalities to seduce initiators, to realise their project with as much care and quality as possible. The amendment in part No. 80 of the Christian Union gives more structure to that committee. Mr Veldman has just tabled a motion on behalf of the PvdA to give the committee a solid role, especially at the front of the planning process. It is a little disappointing that the Minister has taken the amendment to item No. 108 of the SP, which is about an excess scheme, a kind of safety net for all that freedom for municipalities that are now coming, is not recommended. I would like to suggest to her that we think about this one more time. It should also be possible to achieve more supportive plans by involving residents and civil society organisations from the start of the planning process and giving more influence. The Labour Party believes that the latter can be given an additional boost by also making initiators responsible for the early involvement of residents and civil society organisations in the process. Early, so when alternatives are still possible. With our amendment to item No. 39 this will be secured. With our amendment to item No. 62 The Aarhus Convention is given a place in the law. There will be more ambition in the law than our amendment to item No. 71 adopted. That amendment puts Article 21 of the Constitution into law. This article states that the policy should not only focus on achieving and maintaining good environmental quality, but also on improving it step by step and on balance. The environmental principles were added to the second letter of amendment to the law, linked to the environmental visions. With the adoption of the amendment to item No. 97 of the Christian Union and the Labour Party, municipalities also have to make an environmental vision and ensure that they also have to take environmental principles as a basis for their policy cycle. If we agree with our amendment to item No. 70 it is arranged that environmental principles will also be reflected in the General Management Measures in due course. In our view, this is an essential adjustment. The Labour Party will follow almost all the advice of the Minister, as we have so far. This is not entirely possible with regard to the amendment to item No. 98, the Christian Union amendment co-signed by the Labour Party on access to public space for people with disabilities. We believe that the agreements in the coalition agreement to finally ratify the treaty call for accessibility to be anchored in the Environment Act. The College of Human Rights has also advocated ensuring accessibility in the Environment Act. If we have agreed this correctly in the coalition agreement, I cannot imagine the Minister now saying that this ratification must take place before we give it a place in the law. I am confident that agreements in the coalition agreement will be respected. I am, of course, prepared to discuss the way in which we give it a place and, if necessary, consider whether there is any need to amend the amendment. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 64 on the accessibility of buildings is important in this context. We want to ensure that, following the assent of the Chamber to the bill for ratification of the relevant UN Convention, this Convention will actually be given a place in the Environment Act. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement provides for the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities during this period of government;]] [[Whereas for years there has been a fight to improve access to buildings for people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas a bill (33993) has now been sent to the Chamber for ratification of the UN Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to include this UN Convention after ratification in the Implementation Act in Section 4.20 of the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u127	That we have the many amendments tabled by the Christian Union on, for example, the M.E.R. and will not support smaller procedural aspects, is not because we have no respect for the much work that has been put into them or because we would disagree with the spirit of all those amendments. For example, we share the view that an integrated law also includes an integral review toolbox, and we sympathise with the amendment in part No. 83 to discuss an "environmental impact assessment" in current implementation practice. The Minister puts forward legal arguments to discourage the amendment. We would like to know if it is really so sharp. We would prefer to discuss the m.e.r. to implement the new EU Directive at a time when it is necessary. Then all points can be put on the i. In the first and second periods, we have broken a lance for the inclusion of a hook in the law, which allows us to hold, refuse or destroy a licence if there are strong indications of an increased health risk, for example in cases of Q fever or avian influenza. In the second term, the Minister has promised support to look for an opportunity to place this hook in a suitable place in the law. This has caused a lot of effort and tension, but it worked. Colleagues from D66 and the SP are going to table two more amendments which, in my opinion, are sufficient to ensure that, at the time when it becomes really exciting with health, the municipality can intervene. In order to ensure that municipalities will be able to assess carefully whether there are increased health risks, including in cases of accumulation of sources, we consider it important that the new environmental health risk indicator invented by RIVM be developed further. We are therefore tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM) is developing an Environmental Health Risk (MGR) indicator, a scoring tool that can express risks from various local environmental and health factors in the same unit;]] [[Considering that this could provide a voluntary instrument that would allow an overall assessment of the risk of health effects by environmental factors at local level and that this instrument could also provide an idea of the effects of accumulation of environmental factors;]] [[Whereas the MGR is being developed to facilitate consideration of measures taken in the living environment;]] [[Whereas the MGR is still in an experimental phase and only looks at air quality and noise;]] [[calls on the government to strongly support the further development of the MGR in order to create a broad and user-friendly instrument that will allow municipalities to better integrate health risks into their decision-making,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Albert de Vries, Mr Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u128	How many motions do you have left, Mr De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u129	Just a few more, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u130	Then you must be very quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u131	It is very important in the context of health that the safe supply of drinking water is secured. With the amendment in part No. 103 gets this place in the law. There has been a lot of talk about the relationship between governments, especially between municipalities and provinces. Luckily, they got out of it themselves. We are pleased with that. The primate lies with the municipalities. Only if it doesn't come out can the province intervene. Our amendments to item No. 35 and in part No. The main objective is to stress that municipalities should first be given every opportunity to get out of it together and, if necessary, in a regional context before the province intervenes. There must be no doubt that if the municipalities together fail to act, the province must be able to intervene, for example by giving an instruction. We do not need any amendments which further frame the agreements between the authorities. We find it regrettable that the possibility of taking over the power of the municipality by the province is not included in the law. The Christian Union's amendment to item No. 90 restores that, but is dissuaded by the Minister. We understand her arguments, but would like to repeat the question that we have already asked in the second term: what happens if the municipality asks the province to take over the authority? Can't this be made possible? There are circumstances in which that is conceivable. D66 tabled an amendment on the conservation of monuments. We will support this amendment. From the monument communities we get reports that another urgent measure is needed to prevent damage to monuments. I have tabled the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas work on national monuments can also increasingly be carried out without authorisation;]] [[Whereas the proper management and maintenance of national monuments requires specific knowledge;]] [[Whereas in the meantime there are several examples that unwittingly carried out licence-free work can lead to irreparable damage to the interior and exterior;]] [[Whereas such damage could have been prevented if prior advice had been sought from a monument expert;]] [[Whereas owners of State Monuments enjoy financial advantages (grant, tax or low interest through the National Restoration Fund) in the maintenance of their monument and that rights may also be subject to obligations;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to include an obligation at AMvB (General Measure of Management) to notify the municipality of its start prior to the execution of permit-free activities in state monuments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries, Mr Smaling and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u132	I still have a little bit of lyrics, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u133	Do you have any motions? Then I'd start with that. I'm afraid you're gonna get in a lot of trouble filing the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u134	I think I can do it fast, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr President, just to support Mr De Vries: he has not interfered much and this is a legislative consultation on a huge subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u136	I know that, but it has to be structured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u137	The chairman has a point. I'm gonna try to serve her. In the second term, I asked about the financial possibilities for municipalities to have proper monitoring and enforcement in place. The Minister gave an adequate response by referring to the Article 2 investigation. She has just made some promises, but to give the municipalities and the provinces some comfort I will submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an administrative agreement has been announced with the relevant authorities on the implementation of the Environment Act;]] [[Whereas that administrative agreement will include the carrying out of an investigation in accordance with Article 2 of the Financial Ratio Act in order to assess whether public authorities are financially adequately equipped to carry out the tasks assigned to them at an adequate quality level;]] [[calls on the Government to repeat this investigation after five and ten years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u138	Finally, I wanted to make a comment about the Balance of the Environment. The law stipulates that it will be applied once every four years; now it is once every two years. I call for a firm commitment that at least every two years a report will be produced, one on the balance sheet of the environment and the other on a policy report. Then we can follow the progress of the law well. We have not yet had that commitment. I'd like to get it from the Minister. I have one more motion. It's about the hiking, cycling and sailing routes. The amendment in part No. 104 has ensured that they are listed in an annex to the law, but the motion reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court has welcomed the initiative paper A step forward by Mr Smaling, Mr Hoogland and Mr De Rouwe on the importance of (international) national cycling and walking networks;]] [[Whereas, in examining this initiative paper, the Chamber adopted the Van Helvert and Others motion for a resolution. (33888, No. 13) adopted;]] [[Whereas these networks and recreational shipping networks are of great importance from a recreational point of view;]] [[noting that the maintenance and proper functioning of these recreational networks requires consultation and coordination between authorities in the Netherlands, authorities in neighbouring countries and a large number of private owners and managers;]] [[calls on the government, in the national environment vision, to indicate what arrangements are needed to maintain recreational cycling, walking and sailing networks and how these agreements work through in provincial and municipal environmental visions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries, Mr Smaling and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-127]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u139	Finally, Mrs Van Tongeren will be tabling a motion on behalf of the Labour Party to give renewable energy a place, but I leave it to her to do so. Thank you for your coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u140	There! What an adventure, isn't it? Let me just say that to the Minister, Mr President, because that is this whole legal process. This is not just the third part of a large triptych, but it's not just a law. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address the issues that I wanted to raise in connection with the Minister's second term. First of all, that is its assessment of the amendment to item No. 102. There is a new amendment to item No. 114. I hope this responds to the concerns expressed by the Minister in the second term. As far as my group is concerned, this is an important amendment because it is an incentive for industry to switch to the best available techniques, so that you do not get a new facility with a new one over and over while at the same time, on the basis of the Energy Efficiency Directive, you should take major steps in the further development of your businesses. Should the Minister already have the amendment, she may be able to respond to it. I have a motion on the concept of care. The word "precaution often appears in the bill. We often talk about risks in other contexts too. There are also laws such as the Basic Law on which risk analysis is based. In Groningen we often talk about risks, yesterday and not for the last time. There are all kinds of things in the physical domain where certain risks are involved. It seems to my group that it would be a good idea to move the concept of precaution a little further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is necessary for the competent authority to be able to justify the justification for intervention when acting as a precautionary measure;]] [[Whereas successful precautionary action is justified;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to pay explicit attention to the knowledge and skills of public authorities in this field in the implementation process;]] [[examine the role of a knowledge platform such as the Knowledge Platform for Farming and Human Health,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u141	I would also like to prelude a little bit along the lines of Mr De Vries on the supplementary legislation that is still on the way. It will not surprise the Minister that, in particular, the basic policy can count on my warm interest. I feel the need to talk to her about a motion that hopefully can give her direction in shaping that supplemental law. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that land policy in recent decades has led to a large gap between supply and demand in the areas of more expensive residential housing, business premises and offices;]] [[Considering that many municipalities have had to pay huge sums of money over the last five years and have been forced to spend most of this on the inhabitants;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Land Property Supplementary Act watertight mechanisms which prevent the recurrence of such a situation at all times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u142	Given the size of this bill, my group is pleased that there is a phasing-in. We are waiting for an introduction law, the First Chamber also has to discuss this framework law and we still get the AMvBs. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, thanks to the phased introduction, there is still a period of time between the Environment Act itself and the Introduction Act;]] [[calls on the government, the results of the review of the Crisis and Recovery Act, the case law that develops over the coming years, the moving insight from the programme Now Easily Better and the experiences of both directors and officials who have to work with the Environment Act to give a place in the Introduction Act Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-130]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u143	My final motion concerns the fact that it is rather poaching matter. I have looked a little at the President's gaze during this debate. I thought, "What does she think of all the permits and all the terminology?" She was quite enthusiastic, but of course there are also people who do not have the enthusiasm of the President for a subject like this. Hence a playful motion. We discussed this in the first place. The Minister was also in favour of pushing for it, but I would like to table a motion on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas "confidence" works best when as many people as possible understand that spatial quality is in everyone's interest, now and later;]] [[Whereas spatial quality begins at its own front door and stops at the back door of planet earth;]] [[Whereas it is therefore desirable to have a population that has developed skills in the weighing of individual against collective utility and of both social, economic and environmental values;]] [[calls on the government to develop one or more interactive games that:]] [[well linking hard and soft values of the physical environment;]] [[supporting learning to think in different space and time scales;]] [[to make it clear how balancing translates into choices for the design of the physical environment;]] [[are well applicable both individually and in the geography class,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Smaling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u144	My group has the necessary concerns about this bill. We have debated what the influence of Parliament will be. If you put 26 separate laws into one law, then of course there will be consequences, also given the plans for the AMvBs. We had a discussion on this. That remains a concern for my group. What remains a matter of concern, but what we are still talking about is the whole licensing-monitoring-enforcement sequence. The concern I have expressed on that point several times is: do you not shift to enforcement what you win at the license? We had a discussion on this. The concerns about this have not yet been resolved by my group. We have also discussed legal certainty. Is the case law going to build on its own and will we see where the ship is stranded? Are we going to have a legislative change at some point? Or do we get the situation in which many people end up with the judge or mediator, just how a municipality wants to fill that out? That's not entirely predictable. The predictability of the law is not enough for us. Experience with the National Coordination Scheme also gives some cause for concern, especially in the case of wind on land. We fear that the one-to-one translation of the state coordination arrangements into the project decision will lead to situations that you do not really want to have. I have to say that even though it is a little outside the direct role of the Minister of Energy, that wind on land in the North of the Netherlands can now be a reason for many people to lose faith in the energy transition, in the energy agreement, because it is being rammed by it. This is what you have to do with the people and not in spite of the people. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in some legislation where matters of national interest are considered to be of interest, the Empire has the power to take a decision, whether it is a mining decision or a decision to develop a wind farm. However, the opinion of my group would be: if it is not necessarily necessary to use that instrument, do not do so. Finally, can the municipality handle it? Many tasks go to the decentralised level. We have also had a debate on the mantra 'decentral, unless'. I believe that every activity in the public domain has its ideal level of scale. That starts with the world and that goes through Europe to the Empire and then down to the citizen himself and the owner of a company itself. That should be the line and not "decentral, unless," which someone suddenly called out at a reception and then went on to live their own life. That is not the right starting point. This is a liberal law, but the minister comes from a liberal nest, so that's not so strange. If I had been in her shoes, it would have become a less liberal law. But I think it is to be commended that you are filling in your ministry with an initiative like this, so you're not going to pick a little bit of 26 individual laws, but you're working out of the thinking exercise: just think away for a second. I don't know if the minister did that and what would you really need? That is not necessarily all parts of the existing laws or staples. In this respect, the process that has been initiated here is an admirable process. It's also a brave and brave process. We will undoubtedly have blue eyes here and there, but the phase of this law also allows things that may not yet be crystallized to find their place in it. We often have discussions about: from admission planology to invitation planology. I would also like to call this a process of invitation legislation, because the way the Minister handled it, also through everything that happened prior to this treatment, the whole "simplification is better" process, at this time I find a model of how to legislate. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that I will give my group a positive vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u145	Mr. Chairman. I'd better drop the door in the house right away. The CDA Group is positive about the Environment Act. The process of creation has been successful so far and the content can also be broadly supported by the CDA. We are also in favour of compliments to the Minister and her staff. From the debates that have taken place, there are a number of issues to be addressed. Those are the themes I want to walk by. The first element is the improvement of the quality of the physical environment. Quality improvement with the code in hand doesn't work. If we want quality, something about the attitude and attitude of users will have to change. Now the Netherlands is quite a raked country. It suits our folk to have it done nicely everywhere. In Belgium, they think differently. The CDA believes that the quality of the environment is best achieved if users themselves have the intention to make something beautiful out of it. It's not gonna work with just regulations and rules. The Environment Act is a law that should leave the sequestration of spatial policy behind. We no longer want the secluded and sectoral thinking, but integrality. We notice that there are groups that have a bit of a problem with that. If all the sectoral aspects come back into the law, we'll be back with a shackled law. For this reason, and to set an example, we shall be voting in favour of our Amendment No 2. 18 withdraw. The quality of the environment will also have to make people themselves. As far as we are concerned, the government does have the task of correcting things if things go wrong hopelessly. If wealth is flagrantly violated, a municipality should be able to act. Does the Minister share this thought? Then there is the balance between flexibility and legal certainty. The two legislative submissions have clearly shown that flexibility and legal certainty can be contradictory. Too much flexibility can undermine legal certainty and there is no longer any flexibility in the case of a great deal of legal certainty. We appreciate the increased flexibility and recognise the Crisis and Recovery Act. Flexibility can also stimulate innovation. There's even a special experimental article in the law for that. Can the Minister explain how to prevent the experimental article from being used as an escape route? If you want to build something and it doesn't fit in with the environmental plan, you can request it on the basis of the experimental article. After the experiment has been completed, it can be made final. The practice benefits from clear rules. Predictability benefits legal certainty. There may also be too much freedom. The Environment Act now contains few points of reference for a substantive review. We note that standards are being shifted to the underlying rules. So it's not in the law, it's in the AMvBs. The Council of State criticized this. With the Minister's explanation during the legislative consultation, we can support the design. I do have one more question about it. Where no standards are laid down, the administrative judge has no bar to review. Where the legislator does not do so, the way is open for the administrative body to implement its policy freedom. Municipalities and provinces have to work here. Does the Minister share this thought? Is there going to be a lot of work on the board of the municipalities? The relationship between governments. It will not surprise anyone that I shall raise this point again in the third term. The relationship between governments is still a hot issue. The main point of the debate was the question of how many provinces may intervene in municipalities. It is no wonder that this question has been going on for a long time. IPO and VNG have been fighting over it for years, and you only have to use a word like "scale gas" and you have an acute dispute about who's going to talk about it. The Council of State and the University of Rijs Groningen have also taken their positions. Recently, the current boards of IPO and VNG have made a deal. They say they're out. Keyword in the deal is "resisting." The CDA has made an amendment on this, but the Minister writes: "The VNG and the IPO have made good agreements on the relationship between them and the question of when there is national interest. These are crossed by this amendment." What's being crossed? On the contrary, there is a legal basis for the deal, and this amendment seeks to anchor the agreement recently reached between VNG and IPO. The CDA welcomes the agreement reached by VNG and IPO and does not wish to take any part in any of these agreements. However, a new IPO or VNG board can also cancel this deal. It is precisely for this reason that legal anchoring is needed. We would like to have a clear, substantive commentary on this amendment. We believe that the statement that the amendment crosses the VNG and IPO deal is too thin and too light. Then I come to the good participation and participation. In this post-war period, civilians are in a state of maturity. Citizens have an opinion and can express it. In the participatory ladder, we are increasingly working towards a level of support for individual initiatives in the community, and there is less and less public information. Co-creation and all kinds of collaboration are increasingly paying off. We share the Minister's view that we should therefore not regulate the 'how' of participation but the 'that'. This applies to the majority of cases, unless there are special reasons. I'll come back to that later. Participation and participation, that has to be done, but municipalities have to decide how. We still have a specific question in this regard. How do we deal with citizens who are not so mature, who do not know the way on the Internet or who cannot or do not dare to speak? We should not go to a society in which only the handy and mouthy talkers are listened to. Another question is why, despite the application of the Social Participation Code, citizens are convinced that they are not being listened to. Recently we got signals of that again, now when the A13/16 was introduced. On the part of Rijkswaterstaat, it is said that there is a good listening and that everything is taken seriously. Still, neighbors don't have the same image. This incident isn't on its own. Together with Mr Van Helvert, for example, I recently asked questions about the situation of the construction of the A4 in Steenbergen. Why is that? His neighbors cocky? Or do they want to be right? Or is there still a long way to go before we, as a government, can operate properly in modern times? We're looking forward to hearing the Minister's views on this. We were surprised that the Environment Act did not contain any rules in which the agreements of the Code of Conduct were secured acceptance and participation wind on land. The proposed Environmental Act only contains procedural agreements on participation in project decisions. That's as far as the law goes. There are therefore no rules on the participation plan agreed in the Code of Conduct and the possibility of financial participation in wind energy projects. That is amazing, because in the energy agreement it is literally mentioned: under Pillar 2, Chapter 4.2.1, on page 69. For the sake of time, I will not read the text in full. What is the Minister's response to this observation? And how does the Minister intend to implement this? Finally, I note that the Chamber has not finished its work. The Minister is not ready either. Until 2018 we are in the process of introducing this law. In particular, we have concerns about ICT. For example, I read that the introduction of a new digital system for the Environment Act has 215 million euros of start-up costs. Each year, EUR 47 million is needed for operation and development. The system is going to be called the Lane of the Environment. The raving introduction of the Wabo is proof that there is still a gap between dream and deed. At the Wabo we noticed that everything stopped when the computer programs didn't. There are still many debates and debates in the slipstream of this law. I look forward to that. The Empire will do it through an environment vision. That political-administrative document will provide an integral vision of the development of the physical environment in the long term. At a state level, there is a duty to establish that environmental vision, because it is important for local authorities to be able to know what environmental policy at a higher level means. I look forward to that discussion. As far as I'm concerned, when do we start? I still have three motions to make. The first motion, already announced in one of the previous sessions, deals with the role of the city council in derogation from the environmental plan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the municipal council is the highest body in the municipality and should therefore be involved in derogation from its environmental and vision plan as provided for in the Environment Act;]] [[calls on the Government to designate administrative bodies which obtain a right of assent in respect of certain decisions (Art. 16.15 Environmental law), not only to give the city council an advisory role in case of deviations from the environmental plan, but to give consent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u146	The second motion concerns the "lex silencio positivo" principle. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since the authorisation was granted automatically (if a decentralised authority responds to an application for authorisation too late or not), almost 100% of the permits requested were granted on time;]] [[noting that the Environment Act no longer contains such a scheme and that it is not known what the effects of the abolition of that scheme are;]] [[calls on the Government to examine and inform the Court of Justice of the consequences of the automatic abolition of the licensing system and of its possible or partial introduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-233]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u147	The third and final motion concerns the Lane of the Environment. It's been mentioned before. The Minister's commitment is already there to report annually to the Chamber and inform it about its implementation. In view of the experience with ICT projects in the public sector, we think it would be good to be even closer as a Chamber and to be informed even more frequently. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas ICT is an important success factor in the implementation of the Environment Act;]] [[invites the government to inform the Chamber twice a year about progress, planning, bottlenecks, implementation, costs and participation of participants in the project Laan van de Levenenvironment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u148	Decentralising must be done with policy and with good monitoring. I think we all learned that during this cabinet period. The proposal that Mr Ronnes is making now is very close to the Big Projects scheme. I will say something about it in my contribution. Is the CDA's proposal actually to make a major project of the roll-out of the Laan of the Environment, so that we can follow that very well? Maybe we can hang out in that together. Or is that something the CDA would like to consider?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u149	I am very happy to listen to Mrs Van Veldhoven's contribution. The CDA is keen to remain very involved as a Chamber in the implementation of such a large automation project, a project that will have so much impact on the implementation of the new law. I am therefore very happy to listen to Mrs Van Veldhoven's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u150	Mr. Chairman. I am now standing here for the third time, at least as spokesman for D66 on the Environment Act. We can do that by means of a law of this magnitude. Four points have been important for D66 throughout the process: legal certainty and legal protection, of course early participation, health and monitoring. I am really glad that I have seen a positive move on all these points. The law has been substantially improved on many points following our questions, by means of notes of amendment and now, when assessing the amendments. I thank the Minister for that, as well as all those who support her. We have really tried in very good cooperation with everyone to look up the space that was there. I think that's very important. I therefore thank the Minister and all the supporters for their constructive attitude. This also applies to my fellow Members, because I have also seen this attitude widely in the Chamber. I have a number of points to make in this third term. Firstly, I come to one of our priorities, namely legal certainty and legal protection. We do not want randomness and shadowiness when it comes to rights and duties, not even in this new Environmental Act. Freedom where it can be good, but the government also has a role to regulate where it needs to be. It's about balance. We do not want a run on the court because of the freedoms that this law contains. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister has said on that point that she is going to monitor extra, so it is going to look very closely at how this is working. She's gonna start with this approach, but she's gonna keep a close eye on it. That seems to me to be a good commitment. We also share the concerns of the SP about the financial effects. We must be careful that profits on the one hand do not lead to additional costs on the other, in particular supervision and enforcement. These costs come from municipalities. Are municipalities sufficiently equipped to do so? That remains a matter of concern. That brings me to the major project I have just mentioned to Mr Ronnes. The Laan van de Leef omgeving becomes an extremely important instrument in the proper roll-out of this law. We have seen before in large ICT projects that this is quite difficult in decentralisation, and that it is important to follow this closely. We ourselves, as a committee for I and M, could consider whether this is a project that we want to give the status of a major project. In doing so, the Court would be provided with regular reports, both on costs and on progress in implementation. I would not like to anchor this now, but I would suggest to colleagues that we consider this with each other in the context of the committee for I and M. Then we can also see who feels called to be rapporteur. In any case, it is an important point of attention for my group. I'm coming to the experiments. D66 is very much in favour of this, because it makes it possible to innovate and make it more sustainable. At the same time, I welcome the delineation in the law that an experiment takes a certain time, after which you evaluate it and incorporate it into the law. We must be careful that experiments are not carried on unbridled. If an experiment with, for example, new insulation is successful, you do not allow the exception to exist but you make the exception rule. That's the way it should be; so in the law. But if the experiment fails and your house is already there, of course you don't have to tear that isolation out of the walls anymore. Let's be very clear about that, too. It's about balance. It has to be in the law. We have tabled an amendment on this. It says about this example: that insulation can stay in your house, but it is not so that another house can use this insulation material because it was once used in an experiment. So if it succeeds, we change the law and make the exception rule. If we don't succeed, we won't ask for impossible things, but we'll limit it to the experiments that have been done. That is what we are trying to clarify with this amendment. I hope it can count on support. I would also like to mention the equivalent level of protection under this point. Here too, we need to be flexible where D66 is concerned, but we need to protect where it should be. I have just said to the VVD that I find her interpretation of flexibility, which is to deviate from the rules when people are aware of what they are doing, an interesting thought. However, we still need to be able to guarantee the latter, so that people really know what they are signing up for. I can still see a little tension there. For this reason, we may not be able to vote in favour of the motion, but I would like to continue thinking about this with the VVD in the further process. The amendments on the conservation of monuments and the protection of the world heritage are also included here. We just need to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u151	I hear an invitation from Mrs. Van Veldhoven and I think I'm picking up that glove and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr President, Mr Veldman's microphone has failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u153	Apologies, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u154	I'm hearing some kind of invitation from Mrs. Van Veldhoven. I like to pick up that glove. I'd like to talk to her, because what she means is exactly what I'm trying to do. The locations that I have in mind are often locations that people themselves say: we would like to live there, but we know that it is not allowed. Why can't you do it, city council? Can't you still make that possible? So, yes, very often people are aware that they are running into regulations, which they actually want to get over. Then they will also talk to the municipality themselves. I think that's where we're gonna find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u155	That was more of an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u156	I'd like to talk about that. People need to be able to assess what opportunities there are for such an industry to expand, so that these people do not become a barrier to the companies that thought they had a certain space. So it is important on both sides to ensure very well what is happening, but let's look together where we can find that space. I still have a concern about the world heritage. I am tabling a motion on this because I do not think that we have yet fully agreed with the Minister whether it is adequately secured in the law. Let us not change it now by means of an amendment, but look at it on the basis of this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the universal values of natural and cultural heritage must be well protected;]] [[Whereas many world heritages are already protected by total or partial designation as a monument, protected city or villagescape or by rules in a zoning plan;]] [[Whereas there are World Heritage Sites where construction activities can still take place without an environmental permit;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possible negative effects of this on these world heritage and, on this basis, to make proposals, if necessary, to abolish or reduce permit-free building opportunities in these heritage sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u157	When it comes to building, it is also about clarity about the quality of the environment. D66 is not for a totally raked The Netherlands tastes are different but it is nice if it doesn't get out of hand, because Belgian conditions are not exactly our ideal for beauty. I heard Mr Ronnes say all sorts of interesting things about that too. That's why I'm filing the next motion. If the CDA feels called to submit this motion, I would be happy to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people's immediate living environment is a great asset;]] [[Whereas the municipality has an important role to play in ensuring the quality of the environment;]] [[Whereas it may be useful to lay down clear rules on the quality of the environment, not least in order to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy and investigations;]] [[calls on the government to enable municipalities to steer the quality of the environment without too much administrative burden,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u158	Then there's early participation. D66 is really convinced of the principle that if you take a little longer time in front, you avoid a lot of unnecessary hassle at the back. That is exactly the philosophy of the law. I agree with the Minister when she says that things are not going well everywhere, and that is mainly because of the need for cultural change. But we can all arrange here that the Empire, the Province and the Municipality are given the right tools to facilitate them. As far as D66 is concerned, we are also doing this as early as possible in the process. We do not want to prescribe exactly how participation takes place, but we want it to take place when a municipality or province can still take a serious look at it. D66 together with the Christian Union has tabled a number of amendments. We can see that the Minister is meeting us on this point. That is very much appreciated by my group. The Minister also states that the cultural change in this area will determine the impact. A cultural change cannot be enforced by means of rules: we can try to secure it with amendments and to encourage it, but we cannot force it. Given the importance we attach to this amendment, we would like to evaluate it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas early social participation is of great importance in spatial policy;]] [[Whereas early social participation at the front can prevent problems at the back, such as unnecessary bureaucracy or legal steps;]] [[Considering that the government strongly releases the way in which early participation is organised, referring to the administrative culture;]] [[Calls on the Government to evaluate the ongoing projects under Simple Better Specific Participation and to inform the Court of Justice about them prior to the Implementation Act;]] [[calls on the Government to explicitly include participation in the planned review of the system review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Veldhoven and Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u159	I am aware that I am not sure whether the Christian Union intends to submit this motion, but in the light of our cooperation with the amendments, I am assuming that this is the case. I see Mrs. Dik-Faber nodding. I am therefore tabling the motion in part No. 137 on behalf of Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. Then I come to the following point: health. A broad shared concern in this Chamber is to what extent health is guaranteed in the law. We all know by now the example of the stable in Brabant that was allowed to expand, while there had just been an outbreak of Q fever. You're a neighbor, then you're really worried. D66 has therefore been raised together with the Labour Party and the SP in order to get health better anchored in the law. We have worked long and thoroughly on amendments to ensure that municipalities can act in a situation as I have just described. I have already thanked the Ministry, but I would like to thank Mr De Vries of the Labour Party in particular for all his commitment to these amendments. The point is that a review should really be possible, but without causing unnecessary delays in, for example, the installation of a rooftop chapel or the extension of a terrace. That's not what we're talking about. I think that we have been able to clearly define this in amendments. It really is about exceptional situations that we all think you should be able to intervene. My penultimate point is monitoring. With this system of reform, the Minister is actually asking for a lot of people, businesses, politicians and directors at all levels. In fact, she is asking all Members of Parliament for the confidence that this reform of the system will indeed make it simpler and better. Trust is one thing; control is another. That's what we're all here for. D66 takes the supervisory task of the Chamber seriously. Together with the Christian Union, we have tabled a number of amendments which focus on monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation also have advantages, such as being able to adjust early or developing rules of thumb. As far as D66 is concerned, monitoring also means listening carefully to citizens who have complaints about their living environment. I had one more motion on the environmental counter, but perhaps it was accidentally passed on to the previous one. I'm gonna see if I can get this through a commitment. I understand very well that the Minister gives priority to setting up the Lane of the Environment. However, it would be very nice if she could express the ambition of integrating the point of contact into the Laan van de Leven environment in the long term, and to this end she would like to undertake a genuine investigation into the integration of that point of contact when she has given priority to setting it up. If she can promise that there will be an investigation, it goes a little further than what she just said, which is that she might want to do this. I have every sympathy for the prioritization, with the establishment taking place first. I think we'll get together in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u160	I agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven that it is important that the environmental window should function properly. We always talk about congregations here. Since recently, however, we also know the Environment Service. I think it's good to include the Environment Service in this. I would like to ask Mrs Van Veldhoven whether it is also intended that this should be taken so widely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u161	Yes. I have now received the motion and the request in it is: 'calls on the government to open up the environmental window as a single point of contact where complaints about the living environment are reported and investigated'. We have already said that there is actually a front office and a back office. I wonder what good Dutch terms are for that. You got the counter and the place back there. For citizens, it must be clear. If I have a question about the living environment, I'll go to that window. If I have a complaint about it, I'll go there, too. The Commissioner or the lady behind the counter will find out where the complaint or question should be made. It must be clear to the public. Hence the proposal. I have just formulated it as a request for a commitment, so I will not read the motion further. We're not here yet. Now come the AMvBs, the supplemental laws and the introduction law. I have two more points that are a little technical. I will not therefore ask the Minister to comment on this now, but to think about it in the run-up to the introduction law. It is therefore Article 2 (7) of the law. We talked about that in the second term. The Minister then indicated that the introduction law will include in which cases rules are not included in the environmental plan and so on. Article 2 (7) could be deleted. I'd like to hear another confirmation on that point. I have also read paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 5. That article is incredibly complicated, as a kind of triple negative denial: something is forbidden without a permit, unless a ban is ignored elsewhere. Perhaps that could be simplified a little bit. I would ask the Minister to take another look at this in the introduction law. We have not fully agreed on a point which is very important to my group: the role of Parliament. I hope to be able to speak again with the Minister before the votes. A lot of regulations go from laws to AMvBs. We must ensure that it remains workable in this Parliament and that we as a parliament have the opportunity to place things in the law when we find that we consider it important. I am also thinking of future parliaments. The Minister asks for our confidence, we ask the Minister for his confidence that Parliament will not abuse it and deal with it reluctantly. Many thanks have rightly been expressed for the commitment of all those involved in the handling of this bill. I would like to say that you are not rid of us yet, but keep it up, and we will get there. I thank the Minister in advance for her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u162	Before I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber, I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr. Chairman. Since the discussion in the legislative consultation, a large number of amendments have been amended and new amendments have been tabled. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for the comprehensive response to all the amendments. Of course, I am also very pleased that the Minister has embraced a number of amendments, for example the amendment that I, together with the PvdA Group, have on the mandatory environmental vision for municipalities. I also mention the amendment I tabled together with D66 on provisions in the Social Participation Code. That too is embraced by the Minister. My group appreciates that very much. For the sake of time, in this third part of the triptych, Mr Smaling pointed out that the debate on the Environment Act was marked by a number of questions and comments and amendments which could not yet be fully endorsed by the Minister. First of all, I come to the scope of the project decision. My group believes it is important that the province should be able, as it is now, to allocate direct planning capacity to offices, for example, through the integration plan and through the new project decision. This is about amendment No. 90, in which that is arranged. This intervenes in municipal autonomy, but this can only be done if there is a proven provincial interest. Often this also happens with the consent of the municipality. I know from experience that it often happens at the request of municipalities. In addition, my amendment maintains the freedom of local authorities to determine the new position. The Minister states that the integration plan is hardly being used, but I'm really getting other signals from provinces. They argue that a function as now offers the integration plan is really necessary. But what strikes me is that in June 2013, the Minister himself said her signature below in the agreement framework with the IPO. The route through the placement procedure calls the Minister as an alternative, but it is much more cumbersome. The Environment Act is, of course, intended to make everything simpler and better. I therefore hope that the Minister will reconsider her opinion and accept this amendment. My second point concerns the role of the Council in derogating decisions. The city council is competent authority for the environmental plan. Then it would also be appropriate for the city council to have a role in derogating decisions. I have tabled an amendment on this subject on item No. 79. The Minister has advised against this because of the council's frequency of meetings. My group really believes that this is a formal argument that does not reflect the position of the city council and the importance that citizens attach to changes in their immediate living environment. The minister doesn't want waiting for civilians. Of course I don't want to. Is the Minister prepared to give a positive opinion on the amendment if I recommend a deadline in the amendment? I would also point out that the amendment states that for specific decisions the Council may decide to delegate this to the College of B and W. In my opinion, the CDA Group has tabled a motion on this point. Perhaps the CDA Group would also like to co-sign this amendment. Then I get to the m.e.r. The Christian Union wishes to stress once again the importance of the amendments aimed at ensuring that the M.e.r. is properly secured. Or, as we did in Amendment No. 83 propose the environmental impact assessment. With this amendment, I do not intend to deviate from European rules. However, the name environmental impact assessment seems much better to me to cover the load of this instrument. I would also like to mention that in other countries environment and environment are both translated into environment. Just because the m.e.r. The last few years have been widened, with a new name. The Christian Union and D66 put together the amendment to item No. 47 on the decision whether or not to draw up the environmental impact assessment and to make this decision public. The Minister considers this to be a procedural effect. The Minister's objection seems to focus on a decision on the evaluation and possible delay for projects. However, my group prefers an additional decision without delay rather than a decision less with delay. After all, the risk is that citizens will still have an M.e.r. later in the process. demands. I would also point out that with regard to the decision on whether or not to take a m.e.r. to execute just as would not now be an appeal open to the administrative judge. The Minister acknowledges that the bill on the m.e.r. assessment does not yet comply with the latest EU directives, but does not want to look at it until the legislative proposal on the amendment of the Environmental Management Act. I'm just gonna keep having a hard time with that haircut. The introduction law will probably correct all kinds of issues, but today it is about the principles that we lay down. Surely it cannot be that we are taking a step backwards from the current law in relation to the M.E.R. assessment, whereas those EU directives say that we need to be much more careful about this. The Christian Union has also endorsed two D66 amendments calling for participation in the preparation of the plan. and the project-m.e.r. Anchored by a mandatory notification and the possibility to submit views. The Minister considers this to be a double case, because there is already participation in the plan and the project itself. But according to the Christian Union, the m.e.r. offers. a basis for the plan and provides a basis for its citizens. If they have faith in the m.e.r. By having been able to present views on the scope, the final plan or project will be less challenged. So it's time-saving! Moreover, the amendments do not specify how participation takes place, as the Minister suggests. Participation in plans is and will remain non-formative with these amendments. Seeing an m.e.r. can be the quality of the m.e.r. and only improve the plan or project. The Christian Union believes that investing in participation on the front is very important. That is why we will stick to both amendments. The Christian Union wants the Commission's review opinion for the m.e.r. at a project-m.e.r. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations shall be adopted It is now incorporated into the law and why should we delete it? It's just working well. The Minister does not want this because the competent authority itself can assess whether an opinion of the committee is of added value. But this does not apply equally to the Commission for the m.e.r.? The Commission for the m.e.r. Isn't it possible to estimate when an opinion from her isn't necessary? The reasoning could also be the other way around. The Christian Union is convinced that the Commission for the will act professionally and no unnecessary time will be spent on advice paths that can be quickly removed. Environmental quality is not only about buildings but also about physical space as a whole. The space between buildings, the streets and the squares, is much more than residual space. For example, it may also be a question of maintaining lines of vision. The Minister finds my amendment difficult, because the concept of 'out of the physical environment' would not be workable. But does the Minister have an alternative? The amendment in part No. 49 further provides that when a municipality lays down rules on appearance, they must be interpreted. So there's a possibility in it. The Minister asks whether this is about the appearance of trees. Of course not. It does not seem to me that municipalities lay down rules about that; that is nature. I welcome the support of the amendment in respect of item No. 64), an amendment tabled jointly by the Labour Party and the Christian Union to bring the accessibility of construction works into line with the UN Disability Convention. In addition, I will deal with item No. 1 in the motion for a resolution. 96 together with the Labour Party that accessibility is added to the objective of the law in Article 1.3, so that rules can also be laid down on the accessibility of public outdoor areas. Compared to the previous version, it has been clarified that there will always be a balance of interests. With our amendment, therefore, the direction is clear. It is not, as the Minister indicated earlier, ratifying the UN Disability Convention through the Environment Act. It just isn't! When redesigning streets and squares, we would like access to be included. The UN Disability Convention is there. We're gonna ratify it. Therefore, now include provisions in the Environmental Act. That simply cannot be seen separately. According to the Minister, adapting the outdoor space is a municipal task and the problems are not so great. Indeed, we must also let the municipalities do their work, but national basic rules can help. There's no use in an accessible building if it's on an inaccessible square. The Minister considers that the amendment to item No. 15 that clarifies that waterboards also have the power to recover and market energy and raw materials, unnecessary. The Christian Union does appreciate the importance of this amendment. Waterboards are functional public bodies with a closed household. If the law does not confer these powers on the waterboard and the waterboard nevertheless carries out certain acts, the performance of that act may be contrary to the principle of legality. In addition, the legal provision provides the court with a single framework for review which can also be considered in relation to activities. I have amended my amendment on the municipal sewage program. It now has part No. 94. I agree with the Minister that, given the system of the Environment Act, rules on the content of this plan should be better laid down in an AMvB. I also propose, with my amendment, that we now talk about the municipal water management programme. This new name fits better with the current municipal tasks. After all, the municipal water task is wider than just the sewers. It is precisely the agreement in the Water Management Agreement on keeping the programme compulsory that has allowed many other rules to be deleted. For example, it has been agreed that waterboards no longer grant permits for flooding and for connecting to wastewater treatment. The exemption of provinces for waste water in the outlying area has also expired de facto. That's really deregulation now. Nevertheless, the Minister is not in favour of a compulsory programme. After all, the sewage policy of municipalities is going well. I'd really like to reason the other way around. It is precisely to hold on to this that it is important to ensure it in the law. No amendments have been tabled on the chapter on land exploitation. This does not mean, however, that the Christian Union is entirely satisfied with its implementation in the Environment Act. For example, in the cost story, I feel that the child is thrown away with the bath water. Indeed, top-down settlement is often used wrongly in practice. However, that does not mean that the instrument itself is wrong. In fact, I think it is becoming more necessary in the future, as we move increasingly towards organic planning and invitation planning. I understand that the behind-the-scenes minister is talking to the VNG to improve the chapter on land exploitation as well. The Christian Union is strongly in favour of this and calls on the Minister to come forward with concrete proposals for the introduction law. I'm filing a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still many comments from municipalities on the effectiveness and feasibility of the land exploitation provisions in the Environment Act;]] [[Whereas more invitation planology reduces developments in the physical environment and will increase the incidence of suburban facilities at city level where the criteria are not properly applicable, benefit, accountability and proportionality;]] [[calls on the Government to optimise the land exploitation tools in the implementation law and to examine, inter alia, the following improvements:]] [[the establishment of frameworks in operating rules in the environmental plan that can be further developed during the authorisation phase;]] [[not to remove top-down settlement but to make this instrument more effective, for example by better explaining the story criteria;]] [[the ability to recover additional costs already incurred by municipalities if the basic part is not activated;]] [[the possibility to waive the obligation to draw up operating rules where only additional costs arise;]] [[to accommodate changes in use without new building developments within the scope of the land operation section;]] [[possibility to refuse planning cooperation where there is an operating shortage in the operating rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u164	This is a very extensive motion, which actually goes against my motion. In fact, I have advocated a fundamental discussion first of all on the techniques used in land exploitation. At the moment when Mrs Dik-Faber talks about cost stories, she has to accept the old system. I would therefore urge her to hold her motion, to follow my motion and to hold that discussion after we have looked at it in its entirety and have been given an opinion by the Cabinet on previous statements by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u165	I myself did not have the impression that the motions would contradict each other. On the contrary, my impression was that they would strengthen each other. I say to Mr De Vries that I will take a good look at that again. What matters to me is that we do not throw overboard all kinds of instruments that have proved to be valuable. It is important that we continue to think about this, develop it and have a fundamental discussion about it. If I remember correctly, Mr De Vries' motion focused on the possibilities of self-realization. My motion mentions a number of other instruments which I think would be unfortunate if they were thrown overboard. We would therefore like to see the discussion with the VNG on this subject, specifically on the elements mentioned, including the element mentioned by Mr De Vries in his motion. Then this comes back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u166	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u167	I come to my other two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas local authorities need good guidance on the application of the sustainable urban development ladder because they fear that otherwise it could be used as a legal basis;]] [[Whereas the number of steps on the sustainable urban development ladder is limited, as demonstrated by the alignment of existing and future multimodal sites and the lack of distinction between locations with optimum access to public transport and those without good access by public transport;]] [[In order to ensure the sustainable urban development ladder in the General Measure of Governance, the Government requests:]] [[ensure that this ladder contributes to the quality of decision-making and sustainability of urban development;]] [[To this end, provide guidance for local authorities with guidelines for the application of this ladder;]] [[increase the number of steps on the ladder in consultation with the local authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u168	Of course, I do not know whether this motion is in line with the image that the VVD Group has of simplification. I had the feeling that the VVD Group is calling for one big step on the ladder, and that is a step towards sustainable development or not. My group would like more steps to be taken. But who knows, we could still get together and I misunderstood. We'll talk about that outside this meeting. Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy saving and energy sustainability in the built environment is the main challenge facing existing construction;]] [[Whereas construction regulations focus on new construction and the sustainability requirements for existing construction are significantly lower;]] [[Whereas consumers often rely on the price when building a rooftop chapel, for example, and are often not actively informed by contractors about the possibilities of sustainability;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with the construction sector on higher requirements for sustainability in existing construction in the case of conversion and to incorporate its results into the General Measure to be drawn up,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u169	I'll finish up. There is one more topic I would like to raise, and that is wind energy on land. I am working with the CDA on a motion to anchor participation in this law for wind energy projects on land. The spokesman of the CDA Group already recalled the energy agreement, which included this. I still have a little time left, so I'm gonna take up the energy agreement. It's just there clasp-and-ready. "A better distribution of lusts and burdens (compensation and participation) between developers and the environment is essential for increasing support. In the case of wind projects (more than 15 megawatts), a participation plan is drawn up prior to a project with relevant authorities. This is enshrined in the Environment Act. Developers of wind energy projects commit themselves to organising support for wind projects by actively involving the environment. Depending on the situation, this can be done, for example, by ensuring social return for the environment. A law to that effect operates in Denmark. The State also anchors in the Environment Act that the licensing authority can impose local requirements on the organisation of support, which all project developers must ensure." We have really tried late this day to come to an agreement with the Minister. I appreciate the efforts that have been made, but what is now being done is really too thin for my group. As far as we are concerned, participation and compensation are simply enshrined in the Environmental Act, as is also stated in the Energy Agreement. This has also been promised by Minister Kamp in a number of debates. I hope that we can use the next few days to reach agreement on this. This was actually my last remark, except for the fact that, of course, I would like to thank the Minister for the enormous effort, for the great work and for the cooperation on a number of points. I've really appreciated all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u170	I have a question about the last piece. I assume that Mrs Dik-Faber also refers to financial participation. A motion has been passed in this area. I don't know who else was under it, but at least my name was under it. This motion is still in the hands of Minister Kamp to be carried out. Perhaps it will provide some further support if Mrs Dik-Faber, in addition to participation and participation, also means being able to participate financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u171	My group really is concerned with the distribution of the desires and the burden. I have not only mentioned the word 'participant' but also the word 'compensation'. I have also referred to legislation in Denmark. There is talk that residents also participate financially. I really hope the Minister wants to take steps in this. By not doing so, we are simply creating our own opposition. That's too bad. At a time when residents can participate, if there is indeed a bit of desire in front of the loads, these windmills really come off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister for the enormous project that he has completed and in which officials have spent a great deal of time. I was allowed to meet one of the law lawyers on a boat to Oerol. She needed as much rest and distraction as I did. I think we both enjoyed that weekend, Oerol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u173	I find it surprising that you share that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u174	I just wanted to share with you that MPs and legal lawyers can still enjoy culture and recreation in the Netherlands even at this time. On many points, I understand the Minister, although I do not agree with her. On one point, however, I do not understand how the Minister's reasoning works. That's about filling up until maximum is allowed. If you have a cup of coffee and there can be up to that much chlorine in the water and up to that many dyes and there is a possibility of extracting some chlorine and dyes, does the Minister think we should fill it up with other substances to the maximum? Surely the goal should be to get coffee containing neither chlorine nor colorants? The Minister understands that discussion. Filling it up to what is possible, I don't understand, not at all because the purpose of the law is to improve the quality of the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u175	I'm just gonna find where GroenLinks wants to draw the line. We are drawing a line in all kinds of areas, because we say: up to here there is the room for use and it can be used. Suppose, as happens in many municipalities, rules are laid down at the time when a terrace is to be closed. In many municipalities, the terrace has to be closed at 01.00 hours. The operator shall then be authorised to do so. Then we are not going to ask such an operator to close the terrace as early as possible in the evening, even though the terrace may remain open until 11.00 hours? We have given a permit to keep the terrace open until 01:00. That is the limit and that is the space that the operator is allowed to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u176	GroenLinks sees systematic steps to improve the environment in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, these steps are not fast enough. There are some municipalities that want to run ahead and say about some places: that terrace may close at eleven or twelve hours. Under this law, it is not possible for municipalities to have a higher ambition. GroenLinks says: if you delegate so much locally, leave the possibility to deviate upwards. This Minister and I, and perhaps the VVD Group, have a difference of opinion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u177	That's right, we have a difference of opinion about that. It is a good thing that we have uniform rules and standards in a number of areas, which will come back in AMvBs. Many of these standards come from Europe. They give clarity and transparency about what can and cannot be done. If everyone goes their own way and ultimately we do not know who wants what, transparency will not do anything, while this is what we are striving for with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u178	So that wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u179	If that is the position of the VVD, we have a problem with the whole flexibilisation, because that is precisely what this law states that it is intended to achieve all kinds of local customization: if you can add this and that together, you can look at it. On the contrary, the VVD systematically argues in favour of this. GroenLinks would like to have clear environmental and natural standards enshrined in this law, so that there is clarity for the whole of the Netherlands which is at least the soil. This has been rejected. There's been a very nice Brundtland definition, "motherhood and applepie statement." GroenLinks would like it to apply in a number of areas: so many dioxins and no longer; so many phthalates may be in shampoo and then in surface water and no longer. GroenLinks would like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u180	Mr Veldman, I do not want to be annoying, but all my colleagues have asked one question in the third term. I would only like to allow an interruption if something is not clear or if a motion is not entirely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u181	I would be happy to have a few coffees with Mr Veldman and see what areas we overlap in and in which areas we disagree. That might be easier than 10:15 a.m. a week before recess. So I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on this subject. Is the aim, especially in the environmental and nature fields, not to achieve a steady improvement, rather than to say that it is now good enough? This morning, the court in The Hague made a rather striking, fundamental ruling. The Netherlands should achieve 25% CO reduction by 2020, according to the ruling of this judge. The Environment Act provides the appropriate tools for this. It's more than just the physical environment. It's about keeping our living environment alive. I will be coming up with a motion to provoke a ruling from the House on the growing commitment needed to combat and cope with climate change. It is still difficult for GroenLinks to judge this actually empty law. It is always said that it will be good in practice, that there will be case law and that there will be a Lane of the Environment. Actually, the Minister says, trust me! Our request to deal with the four most important AMvBs together with the law, so that you get a little sense of the interpretation, has been rejected by this minister. This makes it difficult for us to support this law. I then proposed to do a heavy afterhang, but that was also rejected by the Minister. Do you think the Minister would like a heavy veil? The University of Groningen also says that parliament, thus the First and Second Chambers together, is in fact out of play on many of these issues. That remains an objection to my group. I am pleased that the Minister is going to put for me just as clearly on paper the extent to which provinces are affected in order to allow shale gas to be extracted on their territory. This will also help many action groups and citizens. I am very sorry that there is no intention in this great law to give priority to sustainability in the area of subsurface. The Minister says that these are competing interests that she looks neutrally at, while the government agreement sets out a very clear ambition to achieve a society that runs at 85% to 90% CO-free. Then you also have to set up your legislative instruments to go that way. I suspect that the answer will be that this could be done later in the environmental vision, but my group would very much have liked to have seen this in this fundamental law. We have concerns about the current practice of participation. In an earlier consultation I mentioned the example of people who want to protect a piece of forest in which a particular bird species is present. That is rejected because from their kitchen window they just have no view of the nests of those birds. It is therefore considered rather restrictive. Wouldn't it be reasonable for this to apply at least to all the houses that offer a view of such an area from the garden? I come with a motion to explain the participation rather than its scariest. My group is in the process of making it possible for citizens to participate financially in the wind on land. We were already working on that under former Minister Verhagen. If we could do that in the end, that would be a good thing, since the Empire is getting a bloody nose here and there when trying to get wind on land. Finally, would the Minister please explain to me once more why it does not want to place a slowly falling ceiling in the dome permit? I'd rather she gave me a promise about the following. I can imagine anything and anything at such a dome permit, but if processes suddenly become more efficient, cleaner and more economical, you can now put another company in place to fill that up. Isn't there a possibility of gradually doing it cleaner, better, more efficient and with less energy? I have limited myself to just three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Hague Court has ordered the Netherlands to effectively implement the reduction of CO emissions by 2020;]] [[Whereas the instruments of environmental value are ideally suited to shaping the implementation of this obligation, as well as both effort and result obligations;]] [[calls on the Government to establish an environmental value corresponding to the obligation imposed by the court and to inform the Court of Justice of the quality of the environment when adopting the Decision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas combating climate change is a national interest alongside an international interest;]] [[Whereas the generation, extraction and storage of renewable energy makes an essential contribution to combating climate change;]] [[Whereas concrete agreements on the transition to renewable energy have been reached in the Government Agreement and the Energy Agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to anchor the national importance of renewable energy transition and the necessary legal and regulatory facilities and to systematically involve in environmental law and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas decision-making on the basis of the Environmental Act requires that all interests of stakeholders be brought into play at an early stage;]] [[Whereas the Social Participation Code is a model for early participation in decision-making;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the explanatory memorandum of the AMvB under Article 16.86 of the Environmental Act the Social Participation Code as a model for shaping early participation, indicating that an equivalent participation regulation or code of conduct can also be drawn up by the administrative body concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Tongeren, Dik-Faber, Smaling, Van Veldhoven and Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-142]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren and Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-143]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u182	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing my deep admiration for all those who have followed this debate in the public gallery and through other media up to this time and may have followed the previous rounds. That's a very respectful thing to do. I would also like to include the Minister in this and thank her very much for the thorough answer to all the questions from the Chamber. I will not list them; she has already. I also include her official support, which has made this possible. It was good for me that the minister even quoted a biblical expression: test all things and preserve the good. Although it is stated in the Bible in a spiritual context, it has also received very practical applications in speech usage. It was the starting point for the overall allocation. I am pleased, also because it is in line with my contribution in the first term. We need not be afraid of plans by building citizens and enterprising companies. The SGP does not want an official looking at an incoming construction plan with argus eyes and, as a precaution, assigning the entrepreneur the folder with research requirements and legal rules. The SGP wants an official who sits down with the entrepreneur and talks with the citizen to see how the plan can be pushed through the rules with respect for the agreements made. I would like to briefly mention a few points from my previous contribution, starting with the relationship between the law and the AMvBs. The SGP remains critical of the overall transfer of air quality, water quality and noise standards to AMvBs. We believe that these standards belong in the law itself. These are standards that far exceed the impact of many other laws. Important standards belong in the law. This has everything to do with democratic legitimacy. The Council of State writes for a reason that pending procedures should not be used to correct broad delegation. The Minister states that she will send the introduction law to the Chamber at the same time as the AMvBs. In her view, it is up to the Chamber to see if it still needs to regulate certain standards in the law. In procedural terms, that is too late. It also excludes certain possibilities. The Chamber cannot amend the AMvBs, while the connection between law and AMvBs is closely listening. We do not want Parliament's proposals for introducing certain standards into the law to lead to gaps or lack of law, nor do we want them to prevent us from having the courage or the ability to interfere with the government's plans for this reason. Then there is de facto an irreversible process. Moreover, AMvBs do not receive the same room treatment as a bill. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has chosen to transfer material standards to General Management Measures;]] [[Whereas some of these are influential standards which, according to the regulatory instructions, should primarily be incorporated into the law itself;]] [[Whereas, inter alia, the Council of State has criticised the shift of substantive standards to delegated regulations;]] [[Whereas the inclusion of influential material standards in the law itself is more appropriate to the role of the Chamber as co-legislator;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Chamber, to consider, during the period of submission of the Introduction Act and the General Measures of Management, whether there are influential, material standards that deserve to be incorporated into the Environmental Act itself and how this should be shaped,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-145]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u183	I would like to refer to the principle of subsidiarity. The administrative bodies must stick to their readings. That is also a basic thinking line in this Environment Act. Especially now that provinces are given much more space to steer environmental policy, it is important to define subsidiarity clearly and clearly. In our opinion, this principle is still not sufficiently clear. I have therefore tabled two amendments: 106 and 107. Unfortunately, the Minister has both dissuaded, despite the fact that they are essentially in line with the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. I would ask colleagues to look again at the content of these amendments and to support them. I do so on the basis of the conviction that otherwise we will miss an opportunity to regulate something that is at the heart of the law properly. I would like to refer this to colleagues for consideration. Finally, I come to the extension of the regular permit period. The SGP has made that a point. The Minister suggests that both the regular and the extended authorisation procedure are subject to a requirement of motivation. However, the obligation to state reasons under the General Administrative Law Act applies only to the extended authorisation procedure. I therefore ask the Minister to look at a good stick behind the door to avoid unnecessary extension of the regular procedure. I have the next motion for that. I would ask the Minister to consider them as support for her policy or as support for her, not as a stick behind the door. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities regularly extend the regular preparation procedure for an environmental permit without giving reasons and obvious need;]] [[believes that unnecessary extension of the regular preparation procedure should be avoided, as it takes time and money for building citizens and businesses;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how unnecessary extension of the regular preparation procedure can be contained, for example by introducing a duty to state reasons or a compulsory fee reduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33962-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mr President, bearing in mind your mild goodness when it comes to the fact that at times I exceed my deadlines, I would now like to please you by concluding my contribution, well within time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u185	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Houwers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u186	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin with compliments. Compliments already expressed by others and by myself when we discussed this law at earlier times. Compliments for the Minister and for everyone who has cooperated to make the law a success. I am talking here about the law itself, but also about the process and cooperation with municipalities and provinces. We heard the phrase "blood on the pole," but nevertheless it seems possible to come to good agreements together. As a planologist, I like being able to talk about this law. From the very beginning I was able to experience the "Simple Better" process, albeit with some interruptions. I would call the law an "Entrepreneurship Invitation Development Act." It really is a law in which, with respect for the existing environment, attention is paid to people who want something. I think this is a good thing, because it allows developments in this country to continue. This should also be possible with confidence in the country's co-drivers, citizens and businesses. The existing environment, which we are proud of, has once been realized by citizens and businesses, with the agreement of the government. Apparently, they didn't do it wrong, because we're proud of it. In that respect, we must have confidence and learn to let go. That's not always easy. Such a law is being updated on all sides. This may lead to improvement, but we must be careful not to regulate all kinds of small exceptions and details. We may need to have a little more faith in our drivers. Sometimes something's just right. We can try to make it even better, but if we strive for the very best, you can also get to a point where there are too many rules. That's something I certainly wouldn't want. In my previous contributions I drew attention to the energy gains that can still be achieved in the existing construction. Mrs Dik-Faber has tabled a motion on this subject which I have co-signed. In addition, I would like to see whether we have opportunities in the grant or funding schemes to encourage this. I know this doesn't quite fit in with the Environment Act, but it would contribute to it, because in my opinion the most energy savings can be achieved in existing construction. Today, the court made a ruling that makes us think about how we can achieve more energy savings. Then this could perhaps be something for that in the future. Then there is one point on which we are not entirely in agreement, or not yet in agreement, but which we are certainly going to debate. That's basic policy, chapter 12. There's a lot of advice. I think that my thoughts on the process are closest to those of Mr De Vries. He says: let's talk about it in detail, let's look at self-realization and how we should deal with it. As far as I am concerned, this could very well reflect the view that municipalities are forbidden to pursue active land policy, or that we agree that municipalities are extremely reluctant to pursue active land policy. Now I'm already filling in, and I didn't mean to. I won't go through with it. However, I would still like to have the discussion. Making a law is one thing, but we can still draw up so many beautiful rules, it is mainly about attitude and culture. I heard Mr Bishop speak of the type of official he would like to see. I would also like to see that type: people who think along and not just say that something is not possible. They can think along and see if adjustments are possible, making the plan better. That can also be done from the welfare point of view. If things are arranged at the front and there is good consultation, it will certainly be something. I have faith in this law. I will not table any motions or amendments. I have only one wish, namely that what was once the beginning of this law should be simpler and better for the future in terms of spatial planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u187	That brings us to the end of the third term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u188	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform him that Mr Ronnes's amendment to item No. 18 has been revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u189	Mr. Chairman. I will start with the amendments, then I will respond to the motions and, finally, I will deal with the questions that have been asked by the various Members of Parliament. Amendments are not so many anymore, because most of them have already been answered. What I also promise the Chamber is that after I have finished this round, I will make another list, because in the meantime I will come to no. 141. However, a lot of them have been withdrawn or amended, so I will make another list of all the appreciations of the motions and the amendments. After the amendment to item No. 118 will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 141, and all that has happened between them, is completely unclear. If we look at it all together, it will certainly become clearer. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 110 by Mr Veldman, for I have used the wrong text in the second term. So this is a correction. It concerns the amendment on the implementation of the umbrella concept. This concept also offers opportunities for application under the Environmental Act. This will give businesses and citizens an early insight into the location possibilities and the environmental qualities to be preserved. The Environment Act already contains instruments for an area-oriented approach and distribution of the use area. The amendment tabled makes it clear that these instruments can be coordinated and applied for an area. As far as I am concerned, legislation is also in line with the objectives of the law. I shall therefore leave the amendment to the House's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u190	We were just having a little debate about whether such a umbrella permit should also contribute to improving the living environment in a way that is not stronger than other companies that should also contribute to an ever-increasing improvement of the living environment. What's the Minister's position on that? It has to be proportional, of course. It cannot be a blackmail tool, but does the Minister think that a proportionate contribution to the improvement of the living environment should also be guaranteed under such an umbrella permit? For example, you can talk about something that lasts ten years, and in those ten years we can make all kinds of demands on other companies; then such a dome permit would remain outside, and other companies would have to do more. What's the Minister's position on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u191	I think that is also the case with the answer to the questions. We also discussed how we deal with space. We already have experience with the dome concept. I mention Chemelot and the Port Authority, for example. Of course, there are also new developments following the issue of the Maasvlakte licence: companies want to establish themselves or expand terminals. In principle, that does not have to be an obstacle. The most important thing is that the competent authority, in its entirety, looks at what kind of space there is. But, again, I am in favour of the dome permit as it was, and I believe that it should be made possible again in the current regime. I now come to the amended amendment to item No. 911. This concerns the obligation to participate following the communication of an EIA project. This amendment lays down how participation in the M.E.R. should be done. For two reasons, I do not think that this is a good idea: there should be no separate participation at the m.e.r., but it should be part of the procedure for the decision itself, and the obligation to ask for an opinion does not take into account possible tailor-made forms of participation for other forms of participation. So you shouldn't record the how, as I've said before. This also applies to decisions of its own motion. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. I come to the amended amendment to item No. 114, by Mr Smaling. He asked for clarification of the power to request data for the purpose of updating the environmental authorisation. If the competent authority intends to amend the licence requirements, for example due to developments in best existing techniques, it may request data from the authorisation holder. This power shall be governed by Article 16.54. This information may also be requested if the competent authority wishes to examine the need for amendment of the rules prior to that. I therefore see the amendment tabled as a clarification of Article 16.54. That is why I support the amendment. The amended amendment to Part No. 116 refers to the fact that the competent authority supports citizens with ideas in their development. I would like to prevent the competent authority being burdened with enormous burdens if it is to support every citizen with an idea. I assume that this is not the intention of the proposers either. It's very complex to make a distinction between who you do and who you don't support once this is established. I can see that in practice, too, there is a lot of support. I would therefore advise against the amendment as it has now been formulated. I come to the amendment to item No. 118. The purpose of this D66 amendment is to make various additions to the legislative proposal in order to lay down rules for world heritage where possible. This explains the importance of world heritage in the bill. In principle, the interests of the world heritage are also well secured by the bill. Nevertheless, I can imagine the explicability. The judgment on how to deal with this is left to the Chamber. The amended amendment to item No. 125 belongs to Mrs Van Veldhoven. This amendment would lead to derogations being granted at the end of an experiment. That can only be done if that is disproportionate in relation to the... Let me rephrase it. Granting derogations after the end of an experiment can only be done if it is disproportionate in relation to the interest to be protected. That's how I think it's clear. The starting point is that at the end of the experiment the rules from which derogations have been made are complied with. Sometimes that's disproportionate. Let me give you the example of the building to be demolished. I see the amendment as a clarification of what is meant. That is why I support this amendment. I come to the amendment to item No. 141, tabled by Mrs Van Veldhoven of D66. That amendment provides for the addition of targets for setting environmental values. Not all policy objectives for the physical environment lend themselves to environmental values. With environmental values, we lay down concrete measurable targets in the rules. Monitoring of environmental values is mandatory if a programme is threatened to exceed, for example. They comply with European rules on air quality. They are suitable for water safety. But not every goal lends itself to environmental values, for example if something is not measurable, such as heritage, or if the effects are very local, as is the case with external security. Then there will be no environmental values, but instructional rules or general rules will be used directly. It is not desirable to require local authorities to use environmental values for subjects where this instrument does not fit well. I therefore reject this amendment. This is the way I dealt with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u192	I share the Minister's view that it is not desirable for mandatory environmental values to always be drawn up for all purposes. That is why the amendment also states that we ask the municipalities to draw up "where relevant" environmental values. We want them all to walk by to see: is this something we need to draw environmental values for? After all, we have these objectives in the law for a reason. But only when it's relevant will it become mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u193	Municipalities can set environmental values if they consider that relevant. As I've just tried to point out, it doesn't apply to any purpose to use an environmental value. Sometimes it's better to work with instructions. I would therefore not like to oblige the local authorities to use them, but to leave the choice to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u194	Mrs Van Veldhoven, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u195	I don't think the minister and I are as far apart as might seem. We include objectives in the law because we find these important points in the consideration that the different competent authorities have to make. Then it is logical that these objectives come back somewhere, for example when establishing the environmental plan. It is logical that then at least those points are passed by, to determine whether they are relevant. That is actually the only thing the amendment does. It says: walk past all those goals, which we have not for nothing identified as important points in the law, and determine whether they are relevant or not. I do not think there should be a great deal of objection to this in principle to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u196	Again, this law also aims to make as little of things as possible mandatory, and to make things as much as possible part of culture and good behavior. Municipalities have the possibility to establish environmental values and thus to organise guarantees for the quality of the physical environment. I assume that they will do so when they want to represent specific interests, and that they will also choose another instrument if it fits better with the objective they want to protect. So I do not see any added value in defining this in an obligation. I therefore reject the amendment. I now come to the motions of the various members of the Chamber. That's 29. I'll try to get through that as soon as possible, because this is the first time. The Veldman motion in part No. 113 is concerned with the consultation of Actal in implementing legislation. The motion is in line with my intentions. Actal is consulted in the development of the implementing regulations and the Chamber is informed about the outcome. So I see the motion as a policy support. The motion-Veldman c.s. in piece No. 115 is intended to amend the Municipal Law in order not to make a difference between tenants and buyers in the sewer charge. It is a sympathetic idea, which is indeed in line with the polluter-pays principle. I have already stated in my written reply that I will consult with Minister Plasterk and the UNG on this matter. This also has a strong link with the reform of the system of State Secretary Wiebes. The Chamber was informed of this by letter last week. This motion anticipates the consultation with the VNG and the consultation on the tax review. I therefore propose to the author that the motion be retained and that she be involved in the reform of the system. The motion in part No. Mr Veldman's 117 deals with temporary and permanent deviations from standards. The motion calls on the government to include a scheme in the Quality of Living Environment Decision with similar possibilities as in the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Interim City and Environment Act. I intend to draw up the state rules in such a way that administrative bodies can make a simple and adequate balance of interests for most situations, but I also recognise that there may be situations where a broader balance of interests is desirable than the standard rules can provide. Think of transformation of business sites or living in metropolitan areas. I agree with the view of the proposer that the city council should decide whether such a broader consideration is appropriate. Of course, the rules must fit within the objectives of the law and comply with European rules of the game. I'm going to look at the exact design. We are going to talk about this, but I see the motion as a support for policy. The Veldman motion in part No. 119 is about the ladder of sustainable urbanization. It is a national policy to promote demand-oriented programming and to avoid overprogramming, unwanted fragmentation and emptying. The ladder is an important instrument for this. I know the concerns about the application of the ladder and, in anticipation of the Environment Act, I will fix it at this point, and achieve a simplification and quick wins. In addition, as I said, a follow-up evaluation is coming. So I see the motion as a policy support. In the motion in part No. 120 by Mr Veldman and Mr De Vries, the government is called upon to encourage municipalities to offer a wealth advice to an initiator during the design of a construction plan. It also calls for the abolition of welfare rules to refuse a permit for a construction plan. The appearance of buildings is important for the quality of the environment. Buildings stand there for a long time. Within the same dimensions a very nice but also a very ugly structure can be built. Good quality often costs little extra but can prevent large losses of surrounding buildings. I read the motion in such a way that the municipalities should be encouraged to lay down less detailed rules on the appearance of constructions leading to the refusal of a permit, and that instead promoters can go to the municipality for a wealth advice during the design process of a construction plan. I think that's a good move, because it's less patronizing and it's much more invitation planology, so to speak. I therefore support this motion, which also emphasises the responsibility of the initiator. In the motion in part No. Mr De Vries of the PvdA asked whether we could consider whether the chapter on land exploitation would need to be adjusted as a result of the study of house prices. He has told me several times that this is the case as far as he is concerned. The motion calls for the study of the impact of the self-realization principle on house prices to be included in the Land Property Act, commissioned by Minister Blok. Of course, I am prepared to consider any new insights emerging from this study and from other studies mentioned by Mr De Vries. If I conclude, together with the Court, that it is necessary to supplement or revise provisions on land exploitation, then I should like to make a commitment to this. This can be done in the Land Property Supplementary Act because of its consistency with the rest of the land policy. So I see the motion as a policy support. In the motion in part No. 122 by Mr De Vries and Mrs Dik-Faber, the government is invited to include the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities after ratification in Article 4.20 of the Environment Act. This article lists international legal obligations to which the general national rules give effect. For example, if there is to be a new European directive or a new treaty which we are implementing through general national rules, we will add that directive or treaty to the list. The same applies to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as soon as it is ratified. I therefore consider the motion to support policy. The motion in part No. 123 was tabled by Mr De Vries and co-signed by Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling. This motion aims to strongly support the development of the RIVM MGR indicator as an instrument for decision-making of municipalities around health. For the listener, I say that "MGR" means environmental health risk and that "RIVM" is the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment. The authors of the motion therefore ask for this to be supported. The aim is to create a broad and user-friendly tool for assessing health risks and their accumulation. I see the instrument as an important complement to the existing instruments that allow municipalities to make better decision-making. I see the motion as a policy support. In the motion in part No. 124 by Mr De Vries, Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mr Smaling, the government is invited to establish a duty at AMvB to report on permit-free work on monuments prior to the start. This is a modified motion against a motion from the past. Unsuitable work on non-monumental parts of a monument has been made permit-free to reduce unnecessary burdens. Owners often handle their monument very carefully. The Dutch monument stock is good for it. Of course, there are always examples where something went wrong, but that used to be the case when everything was still subject to authorisation. The objective of the proposed reporting obligation is to inform municipalities of the start of authorisation-free activities. Municipalities can adapt their supervision accordingly. There's something to be said for that. On the other hand, a notification obligation is based on mistrust and leads to an additional burden for the owners. In other words, this motion has advantages and disadvantages. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. On the one hand nothing goes wrong, but on the other hand this leads to an extra burden. It is up to the House to decide on this by a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u197	I was expecting the Minister to mention the argument of burden increase. I've just been checking on the practice. That is that a change must be included in a digital system. One check must be made to inform the municipality. I cannot imagine that this would lead to an enormous burden increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u198	If you make a report, the municipality will also want certain information about exactly what you're going to do. Otherwise, I don't think it makes much sense to make a report. If you have to share that information, maybe local authorities should take care of it as well. When I say I paint my house green, but actually make it yellow, it has its effect. You're gonna come up on a sliding slope. No, that's a wrong expression. You're about to slide down the slope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u199	It doesn't matter at this time of day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u200	It is indeed too late for this expression. A sliding bowl, that's it. That's my concern about this motion. At the same time, I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I think the Chamber should take a decision on it. In the motion in part No. 126 calls on Mr De Vries to repeat the financial research after five and after ten years. In the coming years, we will keep our finger on the pulse of the governance agreement to see how financial effects are going. We will also look at the financial effects of each aspect of the system review. I can also imagine that, even after the entry into force, we will monitor and evaluate the costs and benefits where they fall. I therefore support Mr De Vries' motion. In the motion in part No. 127 the government is asked to indicate in the state environment view what arrangements are needed to maintain recreational route networks and how these arrangements work through in the provincial and municipal environment views. I'll admit I'm going into the state's environment vision on the recreational route networks. This is also in line with my commitment in the context of the examination of the own-initiative paper A step forward. Administrative arrangements are very important for securing the route networks. I expect that this issue will also be addressed in the provincial and municipal environmental visions. Of course, I am not talking about that, but I would like to explain this, including in the environmental view. With that remark, I see the motion as a support for policy. Mr Smaling served the motion in part No. 128 in which he asks for explicit attention to be paid to public authorities' knowledge and skills and to examine whether the knowledge platform can play a role in this respect with regard to precaution. I see this motion as a policy support, because support for network operators through knowledge and skills is an important pillar of the planned implementation process. I would like to be inspired by existing successful initiatives and knowledge platforms. I shall then come to the motion on part No. 129 of Mr Smaling. It calls on the government to implement the Land Property Act in such a way as to create a watertight system that eliminates the problems in the land policy of recent years. It is very handsome if we can formulate our proposals in such a way that they are waterproof. After all, you never know what's going on. I agree with Mr Smaling that the problems of land policy should be avoided as much as possible, but I cannot completely rule them out by means of legislation. That's just what I was trying to say: waterproof is a very big word. It remains largely a matter of how ground policy instruments are handled. It is not so much about the instruments, but often about the way in which they are handled. If I take the motion in such a way that the government is asked to do everything possible in the Supplementary Law on land ownership to strengthen a careful ground policy, I see the motion as supporting policy. If, however, Mr Smaling is concerned with a waterproof system which makes this impossible, I would therefore ask that question explicitly - I would advise against the motion because, as has been said, it is not entirely possible to do so by means of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u201	If we can remove it in such a way that the Minister's first interpretation is good enough, then I would like to respond positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u202	Thank you. Then there is Mr Smaling's motion for a resolution. 130, in which the government is requested to produce the results of the review of the Crisis and Recovery Act, case law, moving insight, etc. in the period between the establishment of the Environmental Law and the Implementation Act. etc. etc. give a place in the introduction law. The review of the Crisis and Recovery Act is already in the law. Further case law and practical experience I will take as much as possible into the underlying rules. I am constantly in conversation with the parties to this. If the introduction law is the logical place, it will end up there. If Mr Smaling is referring not only to the introduction law, but to all further regulations, then I see the motion as supporting policy. I see Mr. Smaling nodding. Maybe that'll help with the report. I come to Mr Smaling's motion on item No. 131. It invites the government to develop one or more interactive games, not only for individuals, but also for teaching groups. Developing tools such as games fits well into the planned implementation process. They are increasingly used to get to know material in a fun and inspiring way. I see the motion as a policy support. In part No. 132 Mr Ronnes tabled a motion calling on the government to give the city council a right of assent to deviations from the environmental plan. I have no problem with an advisory role of the city council in the licensing procedure. I would like to embed it in the law, but I do not think that an authorisation requirement is workable. So that goes too far for me. Any construction with a right of consent, I'll advise against it. A right of assent of the city council, which meets only in a limited way, is far too hampering the smooth running time of the proceedings. It hits an important goal of the law: faster procedures. There is no need for this right of assent within the dual relationship. There is no need to doubt the importance of an opinion from the Board to the College. That's why I'm deposing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u203	But the municipal councils can choose a practical way of working by delegateing matters to the college, can't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u204	But if city councils don't do that, you always have to wait for consent until the moment they get back together. A college can very well make such a decision. A city council can then say afterwards that the college did not do well and turn the college upside down for that. I am really in favour of this not being in the hands of the city council itself. I do not object to an advisory role in the authorisation procedure, but rather to an consent requirement. I come to Mr Ronnes' motion on item No. 133 over the lex silencio positivo. He would like to investigate the consequences of abolishing them. In the event of a delay in the environmental permit procedure, the bill applies the periodic penalty payment scheme in case of failure to make a timely decision under the General Administrative Law Act. It already provides an incentive for timely decision-making. As part of the evaluation, I am prepared to look explicitly at the effectiveness of this scheme for the environmental permit. That is why I support this motion. In the motion in part No. Mr Ronnes asked the government to inform the Chamber twice a year about the progress of the planning of the Laan project of the Environment. Involvement of the Chamber is as important to me as the Chamber itself, but the upcoming BIT tests are also very important to me and I don't just want to report, so I want to stick to the promised annual reporting and to the reports that BIT is asking for. I await with interest the judgment of the Chamber whether it intends to make a major project of this kind. I would advise against this motion, which already intends to take the form of a half-yearly report. In her motion, Mrs Van Veldhoven calls for piece No. 135 to investigate the negative consequences of permit-free building in world heritage and to make proposals to limit this. Together with my colleague from OCW, I am prepared to investigate whether the world heritage is sufficiently protected from the possible negative consequences of permit-free construction. I will inform the Chamber about the outcome of the investigation and, if necessary, I will make proposals to limit or abolish permit-free building opportunities. I therefore support this motion. In her motion, Mrs Van Veldhoven asks for item No. 136 to enable municipalities to manage the quality of the environment without too much administrative burden. Municipalities have ample opportunities to control the quality of the environment through the Environment Plan. This can be done more than with the currently fragmented instruments. This also saves the municipality administrative burden. The administrative burden for citizens and businesses can influence municipalities themselves, for example, by using general rules rather than permits. I believe that the Environment Act is already very much in line with the ambition of the motion and I therefore see the motion as supporting the policy. In the motion in part No. 137 of D66 and the Christian Union are addressed to early participation. Indeed, I consider early participation to be very important. I'm also sending here with the program Easy Better now. If I may take the motion in such a way that I can inform the Chamber about participation in the framework of Easier now before the Introduction Act, I can support it. I will continue to take part in the planned legislative review. I see Mrs Van Veldhoven nodding and I assume she agrees with the interpretation. Mrs Dik-Faber, in her motion on item No. 138 to examine a number of improvements to the instruments of land exploitation for the Introduction Act. It sets out a number of very explicit points in this regard. On the one hand, in this motion, it asks for improvements to be examined and, on the other hand, it indicates the direction it should take, for example, to maintain operating deficits as grounds for refusal in the authorisation or to release PPP criteria, proportionality, benefit and accountability. I have just said in my reply to Mr De Vries' motion that we are going to come back to the basic policy in dealing with the law. I say to the Chamber once again that we will look closely at land exploitation. However, I do not recommend the motion as it has now been formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u205	There is, however, a clear statement in the motion that we are still going to speak here. It's also a research motion. I do recognise that there is a certain line in it, but if I change it so that at least we have appointed the subjects together, these are the specific points that we also get back from the field to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u206	I have already said a few times in committee that more Members would like to talk about ground policy. I asked them all to keep that until we deal with the law. They have also mentioned a number of issues on which they wish to speak. I think it is very nice that they are not trying to record this at the moment when the Environment Act is being dealt with, but will actually have that discussion at the time when the law is being dealt with. This is also a reason for me not to make a step forward with all these specific points, but to bring this forward in the course of the legislative process. I therefore advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. Mrs Dik-Faber asked the government to re-examine the sustainable urban development ladder, to provide guidance to local authorities and to increase the number of steps. I appreciate her efforts to increase the effectiveness of the instrument. That is a shared goal, but the signals I have received so far do not go in the direction of additional steps. These signals are much more about simplification and improvement of the instrument. I am prepared to give the underlying idea of the Christian Union to the PBL in the case of evaluations, but I would advise against this motion, because it is based on the development of additional steps. The motion in part No. 140 by Mrs Dik-Faber was also signed by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr Houwers. In this motion, the government is asked to agree with the construction sector on higher requirements for sustainability in existing construction and in the case of conversion and to incorporate the results into the General Measure to be drawn up. I support this motion, but I will make a reservation. If I may explain the motion in such a way that the cabinet is asked to make a serious effort to examine, together with the construction sector, what is reasonable in this respect, I can support the motion. We also need to look closely at the cost aspects. Of course, I cannot promise in advance that rules will also be included in the AMvB, because you need two parties to the agreements. Furthermore, it depends on the nature of the agreements whether they require regulation. If I'm not allowed to interpret the motion like this, I have to discourage the motion, because the motion then precedes the good conversation you can have with the environment in order to make improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u207	I am looking at the co-subscribers and I think I can say that we can get out of the way with the Minister's explanation. Mrs Van Veldhoven also indicated that she wanted to sign the motion. If you can do it this way, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u208	Well, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u209	The motion-Dik-Faber c.s. (33962, No. 140) has been amended to mean that it has now been signed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Houwers and Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 140 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u210	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 142 by Mrs Van Tongeren, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Smaling, Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Ouwehand, the government is invited to include environmental values for CO in connection with Urgenda's ruling. That statement has been made today and is therefore still being studied. The cabinet will therefore come up with a response and I do not want to go into the substance of the matter now. There is also talk in Paris in December about the CO-reduction package. I would therefore like to continue the motion until after the Paris climate conference. I must, of course, say 'want to hold', because I cannot, of course, hold a motion myself. I would like to hear from the Members of Parliament if they are prepared to do so. If not, I'll have to discourage the motion. In the motion in part No. 143 by Mrs Van Tongeren and Mr De Vries, the government is invited to anchor the national importance of the transition to renewable energy and the necessary legal and regulatory facilities and to systematically involve them in environmental law. Transition is a national interest enshrined in the SVIR. The national task is limited to large-scale wind energy on land and at sea with the authority of the Minister of EZ. For smaller wind farms, solar panels and energy saving, the local authorities are the competent authority. We have also made agreements with local authorities and private parties in the energy agreement. EU Heads of Government further agreed on the main elements of the 2030 climate and energy package. This will be adopted in December. Then we will look at its implementation and any changes in legislation and regulations. If I may shape the execution of the motion in this way, I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u211	Mrs. Van Tongeren?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u212	I see Mrs. Van Tongeren nodding, so that goes well. Then I come to the motion on part No. 144, including Mrs Van Tongeren's. The scope of this motion is that the Code of Social Participation or an equivalent code of conduct is prescribed by AMvB. I appreciate early participation; the bill also encouraged it. I prescribe that it should, but not how it should; a discussion that we have had a few times already. So I don't want to prescribe models. Every situation requires customization. I'd like to leave that space to the competent authority, too. For that reason, I advise against this motion. That won't surprise you, because we've had this discussion a few times. Mr Bishop's first motion goes back to the point about the relationship between law and AMvBs and the question of whether standards do not belong in the law. He's got piece number one. 145 a motion requesting the government to examine, in the period up to the introduction law, whether there are standards to be included in the Environmental Act. During the treatment we talked extensively about the relationship between law and AMvB. I have listened carefully to Mr Bishop's arguments, including the legal arguments. I believe that the possibility of taking stock of the implementation law reflects those arguments. In doing so, Parliament has all the powers as co-legislator. However, I do not want to anticipate it now, which is why I do not recommend the motion as it stands. The last motion, item 146, was also by Mr Bishop, co-signed by Mr Veldman. This motion calls on the government to consider how to prevent the regular authorisation procedure from being extended unnecessarily and without giving reasons by the competent authority. I agree that applications for an environmental permit should be handled smoothly by the competent authority and that unnecessary renewal should be avoided. The General Administrative Law Act provides incentives for this, but I can also see how such an incentive can also be built into the regular procedure. I come back to the introduction law and support this motion by Mr Bishop. Then there are a number of questions that have been asked by the Members of Parliament. Some of them are new to me, others are a bit of a repetition of the discussion we have already had in committee. So let me see which one I can answer quickly and which one I will answer a little more extensively. Mr Veldman asked whether the Chamber could be informed about the outcome of my consultation with the domes on the one-stop shop idea. I will. Mr De Vries asked whether the legal considerations were not to go from a m.e.r. To a primal, an environmental impact assessment, really so sharp. I think it's important that the practice gets along with it. If the content does not change but the name does, it becomes unclear for practice. "Environment" is wider than "environment," for example, it includes building. The impression is given that the other flag also contains a different load. Not only does the requested result in more burdens, but it also misses its goal and is less in line with European terminology. It may also lead to legal questions. For those reasons, I am not in favour of it. So I'm in sharp. Mr De Vries also asks me whether the opinion on the proposed amendment No. The European Union will continue to support the efforts of the European Union to strengthen its relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and to strengthen its relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in particular with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and in particular with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, and in particular with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. This amendment lays down in the law for the whole of the Netherlands that the appearance of existing buildings should not seriously impair the quality of the physical environment. I don't think you should settle something like this nationwide. There's no real estate here. It is a municipal task, because rules on the appearance of buildings are area-oriented. This amendment deprives the possibility of focusing rules on the specific characteristics of areas. The proposed rule is also stricter than the current legal system in the Housing Act. In addition, the municipality can still opt for welfare-free areas. You cannot do that in the proposed amendment anymore. The environmental plan bundles the rules about the physical environment, which also includes rules that a municipality sets for buildings. This principle has great support; rules are aligned and put together. This amendment draws a single line on the appearance of buildings in the environmental plan. I just don't think that's convenient. For these reasons, I advise against the amendment and I am holding on to it. I hope that this will convince Mr de Vries. Mr De Vries asked what would happen if the municipality asked the province to take over the power to adapt an environmental plan. This is the other way round with regard to the procedure we discussed earlier. Municipalities have the primacy in establishing environmental plans. This includes adapting due to instructional rules or national interest. Municipalities should not run away from this by asking the province to take over. The municipalities also attach themselves to "decentral, unless"; they have indicated this several times. It's something else if they don't want to. In that case, the province can take its place. The question is why municipalities should ask the province to do so. Mr De Vries asked for a commitment to prepare the Review of the Environment every two years. In reply to Mrs van Veldhoven's questions, I had already said in the second term that I intend to do it every two years for the next ten years. Eventually, we'll do it every four years. I do not want that headline on Europe, but I am prepared to ask PBL to do, in addition to the four-yearly balance sheet, a four-yearly review so that they can alternate with each other. So I'm gonna say it again. Mr Smaling asked if the municipalities could handle it all. He has asked this at previous times, and I have already responded to it. Of course, a lot of effort is needed. As a result of the governance agreement, I work with various parties to provide necessary support.It's also about provinces and waterboards so that eventually in 2018 everyone can handle it. Mr Ronnes gave an account of the environment that people have to create themselves. The government has a job in there to correct if things go wrong hopelessly. He cites as an example the situation where welfare quality is flagrantly violated. He asked me to share his thoughts. I can very well follow Mr Ronnes' thoughts. I can also follow the example of the municipality which must be able to intervene if the appearance of a building constitutes a flagrant breach of the quality of the environment. If that is a plea for a rule of law, I do not share that view. I have just indicated that, because I think the rules on the quality of exterior structures should be in an environmental plan. It's about location-dependent policies. It is up to the municipality to determine whether, and if so which, rules apply at which location. This includes the rule that makes it possible to act when the appearance of constructions is seriously reflected in the environment. I follow his argument well and I think that the responsibilities at local level should be heard. Mr Ronnes has asked me to explain that the experimental clause will not be used as an escape route. I agree with him that it's not an escape route. In law, the experimental assessment is also limited to experiments that contribute to the improvement of the quality of the living environment. There are procedural safeguards for the experiment. An AMvB should be created, which should be pre-established by the Chamber and submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. Monitoring and evaluation should ensure that there is an interim ability to be adjusted by authority and that it is possible to assess its success afterwards. I think this is a lot of safeguards to prevent it from being an escape route. Mr Ronnes asks me whether I share the view that the absence of standards will lead to more work for municipalities. If there were no standards, this would be right. However, there are standards and they are neatly organized and bundled in the AMvBs. The flexibility gives the municipality room to do the work efficiently. It is not that they can supplement it themselves. The norm is there, but it's in a different place. Mr Ronnes also asked for a substantive response to the amendment on a significant provincial and national interest. He says this is only in an IPO and VNG deal and asks where this is in the law. The bill explicitly states that care for the physical environment lies primarily with municipalities. They need a lot of space to do whatever it takes. Rich provinces also play a role in the care of the physical environment. The division of roles between the Empire and the province is not entirely ex ante. A reluctant attitude of province and empire is really in place. This is enshrined in Article 2.3. That forces the provinces and the Empire even more than is currently the case to use powers with restraint. The proposed addition that it should be a significant provincial or national interest does not change much because the province and the Empire itself continue to determine whether there is such an interest as to justify the use of that power. Mr Ronnes has also asked what is going on with citizens who are not so mature. The Environment Act is not only a law, but also a cultural change. The same applies to social participation. The aim of the law is to encourage early engagement and to invite early. Whether we are talking about gaming or other things, as far as I am concerned, all the instruments that are a little closer to the citizen than the instruments that we have used so often so far can be used. I have also been asked what I think of the energy agreement. I think this was mainly about participation in wind energy. Participation is laid down in the project decision. Then the competent authority must indicate how citizens and organisations are involved. A number of amendments on participation have been tabled in a broad sense. The Chamber has heard my appreciation of that. That is why I am very committed to participation. Mrs Van Veldhoven asks whether we can conduct an investigation into the integration of complaints through the Environment Window. We can indeed do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u213	I have a question about the previous point. The Minister responded to the input of the CDA group, but my group also pointed out the participation in wind energy projects. Clear agreements have been reached in the energy agreement, not only on participation, but also on compensation, which indicates the distribution of lusts and burdens. This also has a financial component in it. A motion has also been passed on this issue. The Minister is now going very quickly to say that we have regulated and completed participation in the Environment Act. There are really other things in the energy agreement. Would the Minister be able to respond explicitly to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u214	As I mentioned earlier in debates, it is not the 'how' but the 'that' that needs to be dealt with. That is also why I am very reluctant to define specific forms of participation. It may well have been discussed in this way in the Energy Agreement. You have also quoted from the debates that have been held with my colleague. Now that we are making the Environment Act and now that we are trying to make it a valid system that governs in all kinds of areas in the same way, it is important to keep this form-free version. It is also laid down in the project decision. So it's not that it's not settled. It's also in the project decision. It is thus laid down on the one hand, but on the other hand, it is form-free. This is appropriate to the scope of the Environmental Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u215	I did not quote from debates with Minister Kamp, although I could have done so, but really from the energy agreement itself. The energy agreement refers to participation and compensation, referring to the Danish model. This does not prescribe how participation and compensation take place, but rather that it should be done. There are projects in which residents participate financially in a piece of windmill. There are also projects where the initiators invest in a village house. None of that is in the amendment we intend to table. It's not in the energy agreement either. It just says it has to be done. I believe that the energy agreement has agreed to anchor this in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u216	The project decision stipulates that participation must take place. That's just the law. You're talking about participation and compensation. Compensation is also in the law. We have discussed this during other discussions: what about planning damage and such things? That's also in the law. The competent authority must indicate how it has involved citizens and organisations. Different forms are possible for this purpose. There are variants where corporations are set up and therefore financial participation is possible, but there are also other variants. Not everyone's gonna want to do it that way. I feel that it is simply enshrined in this law as it is now described, participation and compensation. That just doesn't apply to the form in which you organize it. I think that's very good, because today you can't figure out what smart ways you might have to deal with those things tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u217	I have to say that the government has clearly raised expectations at the Chamber that this part of the energy agreement would be given a place in the Environment Act. We are very surprised that this is not the case. Once again, is the Minister prepared to implement this in a certain way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u218	I respond explicitly to the two terms that Mrs Dik-Faber is debiting, namely that the Energy Agreement has agreed that participation and compensation are to be laid down in the Environmental Act. Participation has been established in the project decision and compensation has also been established; I have responded to this earlier. It's in there. It applies to all projects and not just to windmills. I think there's a good bottom. However, it is not said how it is organised, but it has not been asked to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u219	Mr. Ronnes? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u220	I have no supplementary question. We're gonna take another really good look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u221	Mr Smaling does have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u222	I would like to add my voice to the two colleagues, because I have also talked about it myself. You can of course use words like participation and compensation, but unfortunately I have to say that things have just not gone well in the north of the country. The Minister can say that there is participation and that there is partial compensation. However, the practice is that initiators and farmers walk all the way in by placing megaturbines, while social cohesion in villages such as Meeden, Nieuw-Buinen and mention them under very heavy pressure. That's a really big problem. I do not immediately have the solution for the Minister to settle that in this law. I'd like to hear from her whether she sees how big this problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u223	In my opinion, I have already said in the debate, including to Mr Smaling, that this law is organising early participation by asking parties at the front to think about spatial interventions. The projects he refers to have been discussed in the past and often organised in a different way. I have also indicated that it is about cultural change, the cultural change that I intend to achieve with this law. I hope that is also the case in all other projects, and not just in spatial projects, where we already knew it a little bit. However, you can table an amendment on this in relation to the energy agreement, if there are any further questions. As far as I'm concerned, it fits into the culture of the law. There is no detailed description of how. Nor is it specified only for wind energy, but it actually applies to all spatial projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u224	Hearing the Minister, I think that the way in which she advocates such a process should take place would not have led to the situation in which we are now in the North of the Netherlands. If she confirms that, I can still check with colleagues who have already taken that initiative themselves to see if we can deliver anything before we vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u225	You are always free to deliver things before voting on Tuesday. I am trying to point out that I find the corporation, for example, a very interesting initiative. However, there are several possibilities to organise early participation around windmills. By now recording certain variants at law level, you limit yourself. I'm much more of the challenge and the invitation. I am also in favour of drivers having to motivate afterwards how they have invited and involved parties in a good way. I think that cultural change is very important. The fact that you have to organise participation and that you have to compensate is sufficiently enshrined in the law. This also means that you can no longer achieve a more traditional implementation of projects, as happened in the past, involving people only at a late stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u226	Can the Minister for the round of votes next Tuesday indicate in writing how this financial participation as envisaged in the Energy Agreement has been translated into law, so that we can take it carefully when we vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u227	I can always provide written information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u228	I think the Minister has a point here, because we are dealing with a law that really needs to change the way things are going. She says it's culture, too. For me, then, it is important for the Minister to work very hard to change the culture that the Empire itself is responsible for, which we ourselves are committed to. Because like Mr Smaling, I have also been in the North of the Netherlands. I've also felt how much people feel abandoned there. That went all wrong. This calls for a major cultural change. If we ourselves are responsible, I would like that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u229	I can give you an example of that. Where there used to be an initiator and a Empire, which then automatically set in motion an arrangement, we chose to give the various provinces a specific role in establishing locations for large-scale locations in the framework of the National Coordination Scheme. We say: why should you as a Empire honor everything? It is also very important that the parties close to the people, such as the provinces and municipalities, have an explicit role in identifying locations. In this case these are provinces, because it is often also cross-border. This makes it easier for us to fulfil the responsibility to involve the various stakeholders and to organise participation. Once again, we must always do this at a rich level, in the projects we do ourselves. I've always done that with pleasure, at Space for the River, for example. In other projects where we play a role and vice versa, too, we must create this culture in the various municipalities and provinces. I have a lot of confidence in that, because I see it more and more. Mrs Dik-Faber has asked if I am prepared to accept the amendment on item No. 90 still to embrace. It referred to the IPO-VNG Agreement. I signed for an equivalent instrument package. The law contains an equivalent set of instruments in this area. Mrs Dik-Faber proposes to use the instruction in the project decision for the same purpose. I find that unclear. In addition, I do not want to intervene more in municipal jurisdiction than necessary. That's why I'm sticking to the "dissuaded" rating. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether the Commission was prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. may consider whether a review opinion is necessary. Review advice is not mandatory with the project-e.r. The competent authority shall be responsible for the quality of the EIA. It is best to assess whether a review opinion is needed. One can always ask for the Commission's advice for the m.e.r. But I don't want to make it mandatory. That's why I advise against this motion. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if the M.E.R. assessment is not a step backwards afterwards. In the decision on the m.e.r. assessment, competent authority indicates whether an m.e.r. is necessary. The conclusion is contained in the decision for which that evaluation was made, e.g. in the draft decision on the authorisation. It doesn't matter for participation. Visions are now and under the Environmental Act only possible with the draft decision on the permit. The moment when views and appeals are possible remains the same. I think that's a profit and not a step backwards. Mrs Dik-Faber asks if I am prepared to give a positive response to the amendment on item No. 79 on the right of assent of the municipal council if the council is bound by a time limit. I also had this discussion with the CDA about the right of assent. I have said that, given the advisory role of the city council, it seems to me best suited to leave that freedom, but not the right of assent. It is important that the city council can designate in advance cases where advice is sought or where no advice is required. The regular eight-week procedure is considered sufficient to provide advice by modern means. This can be worked out by AMvB. There is no need to include a separate period in the law for the role of the council. The amendment based on the power of assent requires a formal decision by the city council. That undermines the smooth running time. I just didn't recommend it. That is why I continue to discourage the amendment on the time limits of the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u230	Why is an advisory right not a problem and a right of consent? In both situations, it is subject to time limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u231	In the advisory role of the municipality, it is important that the city council be able to identify in advance cases for which advice should be sought or, vice versa, for which no advice is required. Then there is a regular eight-week procedure for that advisory role. It is considered sufficient to provide advice by modern means. So you don't have to call a city council meeting. The city council has to meet for approval. In some municipalities this happens very often, but there are also those where this is not the case. The same argument as I used earlier in dealing with the amendment also applies to the amendment on time limitation, which I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u232	Also when it comes to the right of consent, the city council can say that exceptions are possible. They can make arrangements with the college of B and W. I have to say, I've never seen a city council that doesn't meet every eight weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u233	This can also be agreed in advance, but you still have to get together. With this law, we're trying to speed up procedures. We're also trying to lay down responsibilities where they matter. In this case, permission is requested from the city council, while the college can also make a good decision on this matter. I have argued this in response to Mr Ronnes. If the city council feels that the college is not doing well, he can call the college afterwards. Then I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's question on access to public space. She asked whether access could be regulated at a national level. As I wrote in the answers, the administration of public space in the urban area is an autonomous task of the municipality. Since the cities of the Middle Ages began to organize their streets and squares, the Empire has never interfered. Nor does it fit in with our legal system to regulate an autonomous task. To take this task out of autonomy is a serious matter. I do not want to do that on the basis of opinions, but if necessary on the basis of facts. If Mrs Dik thinks it's important, she can ask the Cabinet to investigate this. That seems to me to fit in with the process of the approval law and its implementing law. Now it could be discussed with the Secretary of State of VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u234	Mrs Dik-Faber, I am trying to finish the debate properly. I would like to limit the number of interruptions. We're almost through. I do not want to make it too complicated, but keep the interruption very brief, preferably one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u235	I'm going to say something very dangerous. I promise this is my last interruption. However, this is a very important subject for my group. It is absolutely not the case that our amendment draws the establishment of public space to a state-of-the-art level. We ask municipalities to take into account accessibility in the environmental plan. The Empire can come up with instructions, but that all comes back to the AMvB. The amendment is very open and merely indicates that municipalities must take a step at some point. There's no way we're gonna bring back municipalities' responsibilities to the Empire. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, To be honest, I would find it a great shame if this amendment were not adopted by the Chamber. There are so many people with physical disabilities. We can arrange access for buildings, but not for public space. I actually think it's too crazy for words. With all the respect I have for the Minister, I think we should just sort this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u236	Why do we take care of buildings? Because they are covered by our building regulations, with the Building Decision and other elements. I explicitly state that public space has never been part of the tasks of the Empire. That's why we didn't arrange it. That doesn't mean that we don't think that's important, because I think it's as important as you that that's well arranged. The only question is whether you should speak your mind as a Empire. At the time of ratification of the Convention, it will automatically be implemented by the provinces, the regions and the municipalities. I also said that, if you consider it important, you could also ask the Cabinet to have this examined in the course of an approval law and its implementing law, and that you could consult with the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u237	I have a question about it, too. I really do not understand why the Minister says that it could be done after ratification. I just don't get it. We agreed in the coalition agreement that the treaty would be ratified. I think we should be able to rely on that to happen. Now we make this law. I have just quoted the College of Human Rights, which expects the Netherlands to take care of this in the Environment Act. So I don't know where the Minister's resistance came from. I'm really gonna call on her to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u238	I think we're talking past each other. With regard to the tasks that lie at a rich level, and which are therefore also part of an Environmental Act, we also assume that responsibility. I have said before that all the points relating to accessibility will be included in the Building Decision and all kinds of other regulations. However, it does not fit into our legal system to lay down rules on an autonomous task, a task which does not belong to us. That's what I'm talking about. Even after ratification of the Treaty, we are not going to take this task out of autonomy. We assume that municipalities will then organise this in their own laws and regulations. Then I come to Mrs Van Tongeren's question about filling the maximum value. I don't see her anymore, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u239	Unfortunately, a number of Members of Parliament had to leave the Chamber, also in connection with...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u240	The last train.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u241	...the last train, indeed. You've been able to guess that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u242	Filling is obviously not a goal. In many places the quality is also better than the standard. It is certainly desirable to strive for less than the norm. We also have rules for this, such as applying the best available techniques. But the standards are agreed in such a way that it is safe and healthy enough if you meet the standard. If that is not the case, then we have another discussion in the Chamber, namely that the norm should look different. There will be room for manoeuvre in some areas. It doesn't necessarily need to be filled, but it can be filled. If there is a standard that goes up to a certain level and there are developments in the economy, in agriculture, in transport and so on, it can even be done in construction, in short: in all kinds of projects, you have to be able to use that space, otherwise we have set a new standard without having had a political debate on it. In principle, therefore, it is always possible to carry out new activities as long as you meet the standards. As a result, the law also allows for initiatives. The government doesn't order you to improve the quality as long as you meet that standard. That doesn't mean you can't do it. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether there could be an alternative to the desire for rules on the quality of the appearance of the physical environment. The question is whether an alternative is needed. I think the Environment Act already regulates Mrs Dik-Faber's wish. The environmental plan is the instrument for spatial quality. It lays down rules for the layout of the space. The environmental plan includes planning, urban planning, well-being and quality of the landscape. The environmental plan also ensures a balanced allocation of functions to locations and sets rules for the quality of the environment. The appearance of everything that can be seen outside is part of it and can be protected by all kinds of rules. The province and the Empire can give instructions for this from provincial and national interest, but the primacy lies with the municipality. I'd like to leave it that way. I see no reason for a separate legal obligation on the basis of which municipalities should lay down rules on the appearance of the living environment. Mrs Van Tongeren asked why I don't want a slowly descending ceiling in a dome permit. This also relates to Mrs Van Tongeren's previous question, the question about filling. I don't want different demands for domes and individual companies. Otherwise, companies may align their cooperation in a dome with those requirements. A dome permit shall apply to industrial sites. Those are places where we focus on environmentally damaging activities. We would prefer to have as many of those companies as possible in that place, in order to be able to concentrate. Then they don't have to sit elsewhere, and then we don't have to build up new ground for companies. So I think that filling up environmental use areas here can be very sensible. Companies do, however, expect to reduce their emissions, so take all appropriate measures against pollution and apply the best techniques. I have three more questions to answer, Madam President. Mrs. Van Tongeren asked why rules on the subsurface should not be in the law. The bill also covers the subsurface. That is already the case and this will become even more clear with the Supplementary Law on Soil. Mrs. Van Tongeren asked me to have a heavy front. The bill already offers a heavy veil. The Chamber will be presented with all AMvBs in draft form. The introduction law can then take stock of the situation. At that time it can also be considered whether additional provisions are needed for the creation of the AMvBs. By the way, I am also contradicting myself here, because in the discussion with the committee I also said that 'heavy veil' did not stand up for that. But then the discussion was about exactly what it meant. A heavy veil means you're gonna see everything. It does not mean that after the treatment of the AMvBs you can still say by a small majority that you do not want to determine them. Let me add that for the sake of clarity. Finally, Mr Houwers' question is whether I can do something about subsidies for energy saving in existing construction. We are integrating the current Building Decision into the implementing rules, but it is really Mr Blok who is talking about the granting of subsidies. I think Mr Houwers already knew that. That's my answer to his question. Madam President, this brings me to the end of my answer to all the questions. I was going to thank the Chamber, but I see another question coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u243	I asked one question in my term. I asked for confirmation on the two articles, Articles 2.7 and 5.1, so let me put it out of my mind. Does the Minister still want to look at this in the context of the introduction law? A simple yes or no suffices. Then I'm clear on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u244	Yes. I can't estimate the extent of it right now. Mrs Van Veldhoven herself indicated that I do not need to go into the substance of the matter now. I'm fine with seeing if there's any more issues in there. I'm closing up. I've worked on this with great pleasure. I would particularly like to thank all the people and parties who have worked very hard on this: civil servants, the various domes, the interest groups, but also the MPs themselves, who have studied all the legislation very early. It has led to many amendments and many motions, as you have seen, but also to relatively much support. So we have been able to do this in good cooperation. I am very curious about the vote and what will come out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u245	We will vote on the amendments and motions tabled next week. At least, the Minister has made commitments. It comes before the votes with a letter expressing an appreciation of the amendments and motions and with a letter on financial participation as referred to in the Energy Agreement in relation to exactly how it is regulated in the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u246	I believe that another letter was promised, namely on a point by Mrs Van Tongeren. What was it? It was about a lack of clarity. Oh, yeah, about shale gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-9.u247	Shale gas. Thank you for the supplement. I would like to thank the Minister for her answers and for the way in which she has implemented this law. I would also like to thank her officials, and this time the Members of Parliament. They have two legislative amendments and a plenary session. 140 amendments have been tabled; they have been worked very hard and thoughtfully. For this, I would also like to thank the Bureau for its work on amending, amending and e-mailing amendments. I would also, of course, like to thank the people who have followed this debate on the Internet.
