ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u1	I welcome the initiator and her support, Mr Peter van Dijk and Mr Jerfi Uzman. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who will be present this evening as an advisor to the Chamber. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Taverne in the first term. He is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is particularly important to speak in a debate on an initiative legislative proposal to amend the Constitution at second reading. That does not happen often and it deserves a compliment that it has come to this. Honestly, it was a close call. After all, in the First Chamber the bill was passed with a difference of one vote. In doing so, some members of the PvdA Group only voted in favour of the proposal to give it a second reading and not because they agreed. In the words of then PvdA senator Rehwinkel: "A few members have a decisive argument that they do not want to make second reading impossible. The proposal will be reviewed in our second reading." Some had almost given the impression that it would no longer come from a second reading. It took 1,400 days for the author to answer the questions put in the report. That's very thorough, I guess. Moreover, the proposal should also have been dealt with in the previous Chamber, since Article 137 (4) of the Constitution requires that a proposal should be dealt with at second reading in the Chamber immediately following the Chamber period in which the proposal was adopted. It was not the intention of the constitutionalist to make it possible, just as long to wait for a Chamber to sit in a composition that gives the chance of a second majority. Anyway, it was Frits Bolkestein who spoke the words: only people without conception never change their views. Now, with regard to the Halsema proposal, now the Van Tongeren proposal, in order to allow the judge to review individual cases against the Constitution, the current VVD-Second parliamentary group has a different view than the VVD-Second parliamentary group of more than ten years ago. Although this is only the first term on the part of the Chamber, we think it is a good thing, now that we are talking about a second reading, to express immediately the position of the VVD Group. The VVD Group no longer agrees with the Van Tongeren proposal. This does not mean that the VVD Group is opposed to a constitutional review. On the contrary. It is already happening, by parliament in its capacity as co-legislator. It is the Second and First Chambers that test their constitutionality, and that is exactly where it has to be done. Unlike the judge, parliament is democratically legitimized. Parliament as a review body, also in contrast to the judge, can be paid for. In addition, the Parliament, in contrast to the judge, is in full public scrutiny. This makes the review process transparent, and that is also different from judicial review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u3	That is a good time to give Mr Schouw the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u4	I was listening and wondering why Mr Taverne, who is usually a rather cheerful young man, is doing so incredibly acidic. Why is he talking about days for two minutes and saying things like "long" and "close"? That is of course to mask the turn of the VVD. Now I understand that a little bit. I would like to ask Mr Taverne for a more detailed explanation of that twist. Did Mr Bolkestein see it wrong and do Mr Taverne see it right now, as a great seer? What or who determined this turn of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u5	I leave it to Mr Schouw to qualify my contribution as acid so far. I would just like to mention it in fact. I'll leave that interpretation to him. At least it wasn't meant to be acidic. On the contrary, I started with a compliment. However, honesty also required a number of comments, if only because the first reading was so long ago. I felt the need to outline the circumstances in which the proposal was adopted by the House of Representatives in 2004. Mr Schouw asked why the current VVD Group had changed its views on the VVD Group in 2004. I have just mentioned a number of important reasons for this. I would like to repeat it with all kinds of pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u6	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u7	If Mr Schouw appreciates that, I will. I have said that an important reason to oppose judicial review of individual cases of the Constitution is that the judge is not democratically legitimized, unlike this house. It is an important, if not the most important, responsibility of this House to review laws against the Constitution. We already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u8	I think it's kind of the merry-go-round of Taverne. Since he was in the Chamber, the VVD has had a different view on referenda and now on constitutional review. Do I understand correctly that Mr Taverne says that this is due to the amazing new understanding of the VVD Group that judges have not been elected? The second new insight that apparently was not there at the VVD is that MPs themselves can also test against the Constitution. Those aren't new insights at all, are they? It is a random gathering of arguments, without any hardness. I would like to ask Mr Taverne one more time: what is the big, jumping argument why the largest group in this House is making a total switch on such an important dossier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u9	Before I answer that, I'll add something to it. A constitutional change does not require two readings without reason, preferably involving only one Lower House election. A change in the Constitution is considered to be so important and important that the opinion of the Chamber in one parliamentary term is not considered sufficient. What the VVD is doing now is using that opportunity to weigh all the advantages and disadvantages against each other. As a result, it has come to the conclusion that it is a less good proposal than it seemed more than ten years ago. The following are the two main arguments: it is not one to oppose it. Leaving tests to the courts in the Constitution implies leaving them to a non-democratically legitimised body, while this house is. If the inhabitants of the Netherlands, the voters of the Netherlands do not agree with the way in which the Chamber tests, the members can be dismissed. That can't happen to the judge. In addition, it cannot be overlooked that the present proposal is based on a Constitution that is clearly not written to be reviewed. That is why the Constitution contains everything up to and including the fundamental right to free time. It takes quite a lot to introduce this proposal in the Netherlands. The third argument is that international practice proves that countries where constitutional review works are almost always countries with a federal state system, and that is not the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u10	I do not mind at all when groups change their minds, but then it must be in the right direction and also on good grounds. I miss that. It is certainly not the right direction. The plea for constitutional review is based on the belief that power needs counterpower. Mr Taverne now claims that this counterpower must be placed in the parliament itself. The legislator then goes to the legislator to check whether it is constitutional. Isn't that the butcher who approves his own flesh? That is not a counterpower to the power of parliament, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u11	I do not agree with Mr Segers. First of all, Parliament already has its own powers of opposition. After all, we work here with different parties, with supporters and opponents of certain views and legislative proposals. We have a First Room. It is therefore wrong to pretend that we do not have our own counterpower in this house and on the other side. In addition, Mr Segers' view implies that the adversary of the judge, who would then be speaking the last word, is flawless. He ignores the fact that when the judge's judgment turns out to be fallible, it cannot be corrected in the way in which it can be done here in the democratic parliament. I think that is a fundamental and essential difference. That is a very important reason not to be in favour of the proposal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u12	It is precisely because I see that people are fallible and that those in power are fallable that I think it is important not to put all that in one hand. On the contrary, it is important to invest it in different places and indeed to organise your own counterpower. If Mr Taverne says that we can do this very well ourselves, can he give us three examples of proposals that seemed fantastic to the VVD, those that tested the Constitution and then said: oh no, should we not? Can he give three examples showing that the review as it took place in the VVD Group has gone well and has contradicted herself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u13	I want to turn it around. Can Mr Seger's report, or perhaps its authors, give me three examples in which the Dutch Parliament has passed laws that are unconstitutional?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u14	Interrupts go in two, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u15	But this was entrapment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u16	Yeah, this was entrapment. So those questions do not need to be answered. However, I would like to give you an opportunity to respond briefly. However, it is not intended to ask each other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u17	That's a nice question. By the way, I still expect an answer to the question I have asked. Of course, it's very easy to ask another question. Mr Taverne can give some thought to these three examples, while I give him my example. When the bill was here to ban the ritual slaughter, we were dealing with conflicting fundamental rights. I found things going on here in the Lower House very painful. As far as I am concerned, that was a violation of the Constitution. I was extremely pleased with the opposition of the First Chamber, including the VVD party in the First Chamber, which said: bad plan, because the balance is indeed distorted. This is an example in which the opposition power of the Upper House has corrected the Lower House. There, however, could have been a very good constitutional review. I am particularly curious about the three examples of the contradiction within the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u18	In doing so, Mr Segers has confirmed my point that Parliament already has sufficient power in itself, namely in the form of the First Chamber, to give examples such as this no power of law. That's exactly my point. We can do that very well ourselves. Mr Segers' example proves that like no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u20	On this evening's election debate, I shall again be tempted to say: do you at least mention two or at least mention one? I have another question. The SP is unpleasantly surprised by this turn of the VVD. Maybe "surprised" isn't exactly a good word, because I'd read it in the paper. Let me at least say "disappointed." The VVD, Mr Taverne himself, has submitted an initiative law which makes it impossible for judges to review laws against international treaties, including human rights in the ECHR, for example. That initiative law gave me the expectation that if Mr Taverne does not want to test international conventions and human rights, he will at least want to do so in terms of our own fundamental rights and the Constitution. What does the VVD really have to do with fundamental rights and human rights if it makes both reviews impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u21	The VVD has a lot to do with that. The VVD has traditionally been an international, internationalist, constitutional and constitutional party which values the sovereignty of Dutch law. This means that the VVD believes that the making of laws can be left to the Dutch legislator, that the review of the constitutionality of the laws we make in the Netherlands can be left to the Dutch constitutionalist, that at the same time she attaches great importance to universal and international human rights, but that she is opposed to the unbridled sale of Dutch legal sovereignty as in the end, including through Article 94.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u22	Well, this calls for a lot of response, but I'll limit myself. Of course, I fully agree with Mr Taverne when he says that the legislator must look closely at fundamental rights. However, if that is what you think, and if you think that we are doing it right or even that we should do it better in the future, then what is wrong with having judges look at the way in which the legislator has tested it and whether there are any concrete cases where a law at any time infringes fundamental rights? Then what are you afraid of? I would like to put a second question directly to this. Are all those countries which do not have a ban on testing not good democracies, according to Mr Taverne?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u23	In reply to Mr Van Nispen's last question, I say that it does not have to mean anything at all. It does prove that, in order to be able to assess whether a prohibition of review is appropriate or not, it matters how the state establishment of a country is. I have just said that in most countries where constitutional review works well, the federal form of state prevails. Several other modalities are possible. That federal state is actually the state where it works best. The answer to Mr Van Nispen's other question is: the VVD is not afraid of anything, but feels that you should be precise not only in the distribution of the various state powers, but also in the application and control of them. We have allowed, first of all, through the curve of Article 94, the passage of international law, that fundamental rights can be assessed in international treaties. This was understandable in the light of the spirit of the 1950s, when international law came into play. That has always been the explanation for the prohibition of testing. I am not telling you anything new. From one point of view, you could say: if we already have that, it is not necessary to be able to review the Dutch Constitution at all. However, it is one of two. The VVD is in favour of keeping it clear and clear, so to return first to what was intended. So either we abolish Article 94 and do not allow the passage of international law to continue as it is now. Or we start the discussion on how to possibly give the judge a role in reviewing the Constitution. However, we are not going to do it both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u24	In the arguments put forward by Mr Taverne against the judicial review, I just heard a new argument that I had not yet come across in the examination of the documents. Mr Taverne said that the Constitution would not be appropriate for testing. That Constitution would not have been written to be tested, at least it would not have been written to be judged by the judge. How else would the Constitution be written according to Mr Taverne? After all, the Chamber can be judged. According to Mr Taverne, the Chamber itself is a very good judge. But the judge couldn't do that because the Constitution wouldn't be properly written? Could Mr Taverne clarify that further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u25	I sincerely hope that Mr Klein is also of the opinion that he himself is well placed to carry out his investigative task in Parliament. If I didn't, I'd be very worried. I do not accept that, but I would find that worrying, because checking laws against the Constitution is one of our main tasks. The reason why I believe that the current Constitution is not written to be tested is demonstrated by the proposal as it stands, which makes a choice of articles and fundamental rights to be examined. I assume that if this Constitution had been written in such a way that it would have been appropriate to test it, no selection would have had to be made. So the Constitution itself already proves that it was not written to be checked, at least not by the judge. But by the co-legislator, by the parliament, because scrutiny is, to a large extent, also a political one. That's not weird, because we can be dealt with by the voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u26	However, in my view, this is a strange reasoning. In fact, you say that we, you and I, we members of the First and Second Chambers can read the law and we can review other laws accordingly. However, a judge, who is just "hired" to be able to judge and test laws against other laws, in which political choices have been made, and normal laws in a formal sense, could not be judged by the Constitution. That's a very strange thing, isn't it? The reasoning now is that there is selective shopping in the Constitution, because you can test some things according to the initiator and other things do not. However, I do not think that this has anything to do with the way in which the Constitution is written or drawn up, but with the question of whether or not you want institutional provisions to be reviewed. Surely that is a very different discussion than that the Constitution itself would be too illegible for a judge to be able to test?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u27	Mr Klein's reasoning is somewhat out of line, so I understand him, at least, from the fact that the judge may be even better able to assess the Constitution than the legislator. That implies a very positive interpretation of the role of the judge. But let's say that the judge may be difficult to imagine, but not unthinkable laws are tested against the Constitution and comes to a totally different, extremely undemocratic balance. For example, he might think that political parties with only one seat are unconstitutional and cannot return to next elections. We all know that that would be a curious and unconstitutional judgment, but it would be the last word. Because we can't send that judge away. That is the essence of the objection. The judge in the Netherlands is not elected, not democratically legitimized and cannot therefore be removed from ultimum remedium which is very good in his or her current role. That is different with the legislator, because it can be dismissed. If the legislator, the parliament, reviews laws against the Constitution in a way that the electorate does not agree with, then the parliament, the review body, can be dismissed. It contains an extremely important counter-force, which, as far as I am concerned, goes for the argument that the judge can do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u28	Mr Taverne pretends that, if this bill, which I hope will be passed and the judge will be able to test against the Constitution, Parliament would no longer be able to see whether or not laws comply with the Constitution. That is not the case. In the end, Parliament still has the task of looking at it. The only difference is this. You, I, we representatives of the people are looking at whether a law is broadly in line with the Constitution. But in individual cases, that can turn out quite differently. Why does a real liberal like Mr Taverne want to deny him the individual the right to challenge his constitutional right in court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u29	The reason for this is that it traverses the deliberate distribution of powers in this country, in our state system, in a way that is inappropriate and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u30	The only argument I have heard so far is: it does not fit in, because other countries where it works well would be mainly federal states. It also happens in Scandinavia, but there are no federal states there. Mr Taverne is not going to answer my questions, just as he is not going to answer all the other questions that have been asked tonight. We get long speeches, but no answers to the questions. I ask why, as a liberal, you do not give the individual the right to challenge his constitutional right in court. Parliament may be able to take a global view of whether the law is satisfactory in general, but in individual cases it can still be negative for individuals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u31	In order to answer Mr Klaver's question as well as possible, I move to the authors, who say in their own pleading that Article 94 already makes it possible to assess fundamental rights and fundamental rights enshrined in international law. From that point of view, the proposal is double-sided and therefore a little superfluous. Once again, I am moving in the direction that the proposers have. Indeed, the individual has the opportunity to know his fundamental rights, not only through parliament, as a review body of the Constitution, but also through the courts, only through the detour of international law. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has their own views on this matter. My counter-question to Mr Klaver is: what does it actually add?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u32	You will continue your speech. We ask counter-questions in interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. As I said, we are not at all opposed to constitutional scrutiny. That's what's already happening. This does not mean at all that there is no reason for improvement in the way Parliament is already being reviewed as a co-legislator. There is certainly room for improvement. The VVD Group therefore believes that the task of checking laws against the Constitution can be more visible and insightful. Perhaps in this house we sometimes look too easily at an opinion and the opinion of the Council of State on the constitutionality of laws. Maybe sometimes we leave a little too easy afterwards constitutional dirt to the First Chamber. That is why I call on the Members of this House, the Parliament, to take responsibility together and to reflect on how we can give even more clarity to our task of checking laws against the Constitution. One possibility is to set up a Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Such a committee could be a follow-up committee for legislative proposals which are dealt with by the first trade committee, but which have obvious similarities with the Constitution and whether they are in line with it. Thus, such a committee would not have the monopoly on constitutional review at all, because we do so here in 150 and then another 75 Members in the First Chamber, but this would fulfil Parliament's important role in reviewing the Constitution's laws. Unlike a constitutional amendment, this is a very practical measure, which would increase the focus on our responsibility and which we can achieve very quickly and by a simple majority through the Rules of Procedure. Although we do not agree on the best way of testing... so much is already clear.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is why I hope that a proposal for such a Committee on Constitutional Affairs can count on broad support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u34	I do not know whether Mr Taverne has come up with three examples that I have just asked him about, but let me ask him another question, because I am trying to understand this proposal. When the spokesmen in a standing Chambers Committee say that it seems to them to be a good law, that law goes to the specialist committee that reviews it in accordance with the Constitution. If that committee says that that law is not allowed or unconstitutional, it can block it. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u35	No, I'm not imagining it that way. It would be strange to give one committee a sort of blockage right in relation to other committees. I see that the permanent committee for health is dealing with a legislative proposal, while it is clear that there are a number of pressing issues concerning the constitutionality of that bill. Then I can imagine that either that standing committee for health asks the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to be a follow-up committee, or vice versa, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs requests that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs be allowed to follow the bill as a follow-up committee, as it is now doing between standing committees. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, with other spokesmen, can pay extra and more attention to the constitutional aspects of the proposal, other than, for example, the question of what hospital operations can be carried out. It would be no different from the Committee on National Expenditure or other committees which could be set up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u36	I find it difficult to understand how that might be an obstacle or a counter-power, but the essence remains that "half plus one" in this house is then about whether or not to be constitutional legislation. That remains a "half plus one" issue, with which the Chamber does not solve anything at all, because it remains the butcher who approves his own meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u37	I cannot escape the feeling that Mr Segers has very little confidence in the members of the House of Representatives. I find that truly strange, coming from a member of the Christian Union, who has a reputation for the seriousness and seriousness of matters of state law. I think that's really weird. I find it strange that you almost assume that laws that are directly contrary to our Constitution would be adopted in the Lower House against better knowledge. I have asked Mr Segers to give an example of a case in which it has become a law. He can't call that. As far as I am concerned, that shows that this is not at all the case. The aim that I have with such a committee is to draw further attention to this important task of examining the Constitution. It is not necessarily an obstacle, but it can be an additional factor and an additional reason for considering the constitutional aspects. I cannot imagine that the Christian Union Group would oppose this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u38	I am only a guest in this committee, but I rarely see a colleague getting into trouble because of the questions that are being asked trying to bounce the ball back and do so badly. Mr Taverne is constantly asking for concrete examples. I've got another one. The language requirements in the Participation Act were given an operative part 5 of the Council of State. Questions had been raised concerning the constitutionality of that proposal. It was about access to a benefit, et cetera. I don't need to explain that any further. I think this is an example of a law that has been passed and has not been stopped by the Supreme Court. How does my colleague from the VVD respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u39	I do not want to ask a counter-question, but I would like to ask whether in practice this has led to an individual case in which Article 94 has assessed internationally established fundamental rights, which has ultimately been found to be incompatible. I don't believe it. Mr Klaver is very welcome as a guest in this committee. He increases the sense of humor with his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u40	We're not on the committee. A committee prepares and we deal with the law here in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u41	My position remains that, so far, the Dutch parliament has not adopted a law which is manifestly contrary to the Constitution. This proves that we are perfectly capable of fulfilling our key role. I take those colleagues who have serious doubts about this very seriously. This would only be an additional argument for raising awareness of our important role in this matter. Once again, such a committee could help to give extra expression and interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u42	The Council of State does not give lightly an operative part of the 5 opinion. This bill just passed the Chambers anyway. There were questions about constitutionality. Mr Taverne asked me a question, but I am not going to answer it, because he does not have the role to ask questions. However, I invite him to do so in the future, especially when he needs it. He asked whether a procedure had been initiated before the European Court of Human Rights. In doing so, he indicated that there may be a need for people to go to court eventually. I honestly do not understand why the VVD, which has previously indicated that the Constitution should actually be taught in primary and secondary schools, actually says: appeal to treaties, but not to our own Constitution. Therefore, Dutch residents must know the Constitution and they must be proud of the Constitution. I myself am proud of the Constitution, but as a citizen I cannot use it. Mr Taverne has a crooked reasoning that I cannot follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr Klaver is twisting my words a bit. The question I didn't ask is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u44	No, Mr. Taverne, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u45	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to put this forward because the example Mr Klaver mentioned about conflict with a fundamental right has not been demonstrated in practice. What is more important is that Mr Klaver is actually setting the example in my speech earlier, namely that, for a judgment on the constitutionality of laws, we might very easily look at the opinion of the Council of State. That is a very important opinion, but in the end the Council of State does not have the last word in this matter. Parliament finally decided that the proposal was indeed in line with the Constitution, and so it became a law. That's the way it's supposed to go. My point is that this can be more visible and insightful. I call once again on the Members of this House to participate in an initiative to give substance to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u46	I am making serious efforts to understand the substance of Mr Taverne's proposal. For example, I try to understand what it adds to the task of every Member of Parliament, namely: to deal with legislation very carefully with the question of how the proposed law relates to the Constitution. In the words of Mr Taverne himself, that is the core task of our Chamber. In that case, I do not see very well the added value of a constitutional committee vis-à-vis a specialist committee, in which, if it is right, the same review has taken place. This is all the more true because, if I listen carefully to Mr Taverne's words, this constitutional committee has no right of veto. In other words, if, in accordance with Mr Klaver's example, we come to the conclusion that there is some friction, then Parliament can still continue if it so wishes. Can Mr Taverne make it clear in one sentence what the added value of a constitutional committee could be, in relation to the current regime in which that responsibility lies with the Chamber and the Council of State has an advisory function?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u47	I can do that even in less than one sentence: because it does not necessarily have an added value, but it does have an additional value. As I said, it is not my intention to allow such a committee to take away the work of this Chamber or to have it taken over. Some of the contributions to this debate show that certain Members of this Chamber have the impression that we are not in a good position to review the Constitution. With my proposal I aim to highlight the key role of Parliament's House of Representatives, but let us talk about this Chamber. It's better to make it visible that we're doing this. That can help ourselves, too. Then we are reminded as well that this is a very important task for us as co-legislator. Then it gets more insightful. For example, it also promotes different views, possibly in one group. There will probably be several spokesmen on that committee, which will further strengthen the discussion. In the end, we are talking about sharing arguments and convincing each other. That's no different when it comes to checking laws. That is my aim here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u48	That doesn't make it clear why this couldn't be done in a specialist committee. It does not yet make clear why an additional constitutional committee should be set up. I can rather imagine that the Council of State will have a kind of right of veto when it comes to the conclusion that a proposal is unconstitutional and that it can indicate in the preliminary stage, the path of advice, that it is not possible to do so. Then you've organized a powerful counterpower. I don't think that's gonna happen with setting up an extra commission. How does Mr Taverne view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u49	I'm fighting that we don't have any counterpower. First of all, because we have different parties in this house, with different views, also on the constitutionality of laws. Next, the First Chamber as a Chamber forms its own counterpower. In addition, there are also different parties with different views. I think that's a lot of counterpower together. This has already been proven in a number of examples. I cannot imagine that we do not consider ourselves, the parliament, not only the Lower House, but also the Upper Chamber, to be able to judge the constitutionality of laws and that we should therefore reject an external party. To be honest, I find that insufferable. Then we obviously do not take ourselves as a parliament seriously. How can we expect others to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u50	We are talking about parliamentary treatment. We're not talking about powers and powers. Then you talk about what's happening in the house. It's about care. Mr Taverne pointed out that this care could be improved slightly by setting up a constitutional committee. But don't we already have that committee, in the form of the First Chamber? In his reply to an interruption by Mr Bishop, Mr Taverne already gave a glimpse. Does his proposal mean that the First Chamber should actually be abolished? That's what the VVD stated in the First Chamber. Then it's good to have a commission like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u51	Let's not start a discussion here about abolishing the First Chamber. The First Chamber plays a very important role in our legislative process. It's two-and-a-half. Do we believe that, as a parliament, we are able to test laws against the Constitution? There are several times to do that. Or do we think we're not good at that? The present proposal proves this, because it adds an additional factor by allowing the judge to judge it again. In my opinion and in the opinion of the VVD Group, that is superfluous. I'm trying to move into the proponents of the proposal. Apparently, they consider that we in Parliament are not or are not in a position to properly review laws against the Constitution. That is why I come up with an idea and a proposal to invest it even more visibly in our own circle. Then they say: but why should we do that? I can't imagine you're against a more precise definition and you're against us showing that we're testing in this house. Then why leave it to an outside party, the judge? I do not follow that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u52	Mr Taverne then misses the core of the initiative legislative proposal. This was not motivated by a disqualification from the functioning of the First or Second Chamber. It's not that we don't test properly. It's about a piece of legal protection for the individual. That individual can go to court and say: gosh, this has been indicated for my situation in the law, but how can I reconcile that with what is in the Constitution? You are now acting as though we are being careless here and as if that is the reason for the drafting of this bill. The point is that care is guaranteed. It is guaranteed in both the Second and First Chambers. Mr Taverne wishes to add a constitutional committee to that, but that committee has no other authority than to look at it again. That could lead to some kind of shift policy within the Chamber. I don't think that's wise. Well, then you'd better do it differently, wouldn't you? The review is now being carried out by the First Chamber. Apparently, she's not doing her job right either. Then you'd be much better off investing it with an outside third party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u53	In fact, the present proposal states that we are not yet entirely sure of our case; we are not sure whether the laws adopted in the Dutch Parliament are fully in line with the Constitution, although there are no good examples to give, which clearly has been the case; that is why, in individual cases, we want to give the judge a power of review. This can only be done because, in practice, laws can appear to be unconstitutional in certain circumstances. If you don't take that view, you don't need that extra protection either. This is independent of the fact that the proposers themselves say that this individual protection is already there, namely through international law. This is also unrelated to what the VVD Group considers to be of transit. The authors of the proposal themselves say that they may be, but we are still doing a little bit on top of it in the form of a review by the Dutch judge. If I then propose to make it more precise in this Parliament that we are already testing, it is said that this is unnecessary. I believe that judicial review of fundamental rights is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u54	I've been listening to this. I notice that the VVD is spitting on the initiative bill tabled by Mrs Halsema...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u55	I object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u56	Mr Schouw has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u57	...and now is being defended by Mrs. Van Tongeren. Mr Taverne also presented an incomplete alternative in the form of a constitutional committee. Given all the preparations for the initiative proposal, I do not think it is very chic for the VVD to do so. Wouldn't it be much wiser if Mr Taverne started thinking about his unbearable idea? Then he can work it out and discuss it with colleagues and then he can run the procedure through the appropriate channels, for example through the group chairman's committee and the working method committee. That's where it belongs, if it's a full-bodied idea. Then we can talk about it wisely. Once again, is Mr Taverne prepared to do so? In fact, I do not think it is chic to put down an idea here on a whim while this initiative proposal has been under discussion for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u58	For the Acts I would like to say that I expressly object to Mr Schouw's wording. I won't repeat it. I do not know Mr Schouwen as someone who takes on this kind of unparliamentary qualifications. I'd like to have this noted. The VVD likes to be clear about the positions it takes. This is a second reading of a proposal to amend the Constitution. The first reading took place more than ten years ago. I would remind Mr Schouw of that. He cannot blame the VVD Group for not having changed its view on this either. I explained why she changed her mind. We can debate endlessly and in a long time we do not know how long it will take to reach judgment in the second term. However, as I said, I think it is appropriate to clarify immediately the position of the VVD. Mr Schouw believes that my proposal to respond to the concerns that apparently live in this house is incomplete, while I have explained it at various times. He would prefer to set up a procedure for it, let it go through the group chairmen and take it for a while. It's possible. However, the proposal will have to be made at some point. In view of the fact that we are talking about constitutional review, I thought this would be a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u59	It sounds very amateurish to me. I'm just saying it the way I think it is. First, the VVD makes a turn. My suggestion to Mr Taverne would then be: be a little modest. He then comes up with an alternative that is really not worked out. After all, what does a constitutional committee mean in a house where day in and day out is about political interests and political struggle? That's not gonna work. It is therefore perfectly logical for colleagues to ask questions about the powers and the power of perseverance of such a committee. I simply note that Mr Taverne has not thought about it, because he is looking at it and thinks: yes, that is a good question; we should think about it. I think you should be well prepared when we have a debate in the Chamber on these important matters. You have to make a good note, look at all the advantages and disadvantages and work on them. So I would once again suggest to Mr Taverne that we work this out and put it down at the place where it belongs in this Chamber: at the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. Then we can talk about it, but he shouldn't be trying to get a majority for a half-baked idea that's absolutely not thought-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u60	Mr Schouw gives a very free and unsound presentation of things. However, that is his choice. He actually knows that a little bit, but that's okay. I made a proposal and I explained it. Mr Schouw can agree with that or not. But he can't blame me for bringing it up here. Mr Schouw stressed once again that legislation was a political process and that its outcome was largely motivated by political considerations. That is a good thing, because political considerations are, to my best knowledge, the expression of the democratic will of the people. At least that is the case in this country. Laws are the outcome of political processes. The same applies to the Constitution. Apparently, Mr Schouw is dissatisfied with the results or believes that this should not be left to democratically legitimised bodies. I leave the assessment to Mr Schouw. However, that is the reality. Mr Schouw made a number of comments on the idea I raised. It will be proposed at the next meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber. If Mr Schouw still has any questions about it, then he can ask them there. At the same time, in Mr Schouw's words, given that he has so many questions, I also taste his sensitivity to this idea and the possibility of looking at whether we can give it a good meaning together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u61	I am looking at Mr Segers, who is standing by the interrupting microphone. I think you've been on this section before. I would therefore ask you to ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u62	Let me announce that this is my last question in connection with Mr Taverne's contribution. With a group that was first in favour of the proposal and then against it, one would expect that there would be some ifs and buts and gray tones. Here, however, it is said in very round terms: if you think otherwise, you have not thought it through and you distrust yourself and Members of Parliament. That is very curious, because it concerns the view of the VVD group from eight years ago. It's being served here. My question is this. I have just put it, but I am going to put it in a different way now, because Mr Taverne has been running away in a somewhat faint way before. When I sum up his contribution, he says that we can do that constitutional review very well ourselves. I therefore ask him to give one example in which the constitutional review indeed took place in such a way that a bill was killed because it was contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u63	I do not have that example, because it has never happened that a proposal has passed through this and the First Chamber and has gained the power of law, while it was an obvious violation of a fundamental right. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u64	That is really a circular argument: it is by the Chamber and therefore not contrary to the Constitution. My question is: give an example of a bill that arrived here and the Chamber said: its purpose is sympathetic, it seems to us, fine, but wait, now that we have tested it against the Constitution, we see that it is contrary to that and we should not do it. When did that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u65	I believe that Mr Segers and I find each other in the same example, namely the ritual slaughter. I agree with Mr Segers that things have slipped through the Lower House where you could put quite a few questions. I also mention the House for whistleblowers, which can be said for good reasons to say that the way in which it is to be set up is certainly not in accordance with the Constitution. My thesis is next. Parliament consists of the Second and First Chambers. I quite agree with Mr Segers that some political considerations in this House are different from those in the Upper House. And that's a good thing! This is a constitutional review by Parliament. Once again, that is not just us as the House of Representatives. I am not aware of any proposal that has been adopted by both the Second and the First Chambers, which goes directly against fundamental rights. Mr Segers cannot give me that example. I can't give you the example. That, I believe, is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u66	Mr. Chairman. Just outside our Chamber, in the Court of Justice, is the Constitutional Bank, which contains the text of Article 1 of our Constitution: the principle of non-discrimination. If you look outside, you may just be able to read the text. The Constitutional Bank was gifted to the Chamber by the City of The Hague in 1992 to celebrate the new construction we are now in. In addition, the bank has a symbolic value. He makes the Constitution visible and places it literally between those to whom he offers protection: all who are in the Netherlands. The bank also invites us to use the Constitution: to rest on a sunny day, to have lunch or to skate with it. Although the latter may not have been the intention of the designer. Back to the bill that is being discussed here today. As you know, D66 is in favour of this constitutional review. We believe that this is a good addition to our democratic rule of law. The Netherlands deserves to have a constitutional review. I will explain this in a few points. First of all, for reviving our Constitution as a document that binds us all, from which both we residents of the Netherlands and the government derive rights and obligations. Secondly, because the primacy of the legislator, contrary to what Mr Taverne of the VVD claims, does not necessarily have to be understood. Thirdly, the most practical argument of the three, also because the ban on testing has been overtaken by reality. With the European Convention on Human Rights, we already have a catalogue of fundamental rights which can be examined. Let me explain these three points again. First, the relevance of the Constitution. It will be difficult to find an American who does not know the beginnings of his constitution: "We the People." But does that also apply to Dutch? Within the framework of the 200th anniversary of the Constitution, EenVandaag sought it out last year, as EenVandaag picks out everything. More than half of the Dutch did not know what was in Article 1 of the Constitution, whereas this article, with its prohibition of discrimination, was now included in the front of the Constitution to express a central value of Dutch society. What about the knowledge of these other constitutional articles, of course, can then be guessed. Wouldn't it be nice now if we could make the Constitution more relevant? Many ideas have already been put forward for this. A preamble, a more lively language, a committee, but none of these suggestions really brings a good solution. None of them changes the relationship between the inhabitants of the Netherlands and the Constitution. Only the possibility of using the Constitution to derogate from a law in the particular case could change that. That is exactly what this proposal for an initiative is about. The Constitution will then become an instrument of that person to combat an unjust outcome of a law, a means that he can use to protect himself from the government. A liberal, because, of course, I feel that way too, can't be against that, can I? With a wink to Taverne. It is precisely the review of classical fundamental rights that is now being proposed that is very suitable for this purpose. Related to this: does the initiator know if there is a research that tests the knowledge of the Dutch of the ECHR? I could easily imagine that the rights contained therein, such as the right to a fair trial, protection of privacy and freedom of expression, are more well-known than their peers in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u67	An interruption by Mr Klein.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u68	I hear Mr Schouw's warm plea. Only it finds it a bit pinchy, a bit kneel, by limiting it to classical fundamental rights. Why not the fundamental social rights, for example the right to education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u69	Mr Schouw, kneeling, has no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u70	That means you'd like to propose to the initiator to broaden it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u71	I think this is a good question. Let the initiator respond to that, before I start again to enlarge, reduce, discolour or change the whole initiative of the initiator. Would Mr Klein be okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u72	No, we're not gonna ask interrupts questions. Interrupts go in two, too. I think Mr Schouw has answered Mr Klein's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u73	I will return to it in my own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u74	That seems to me to be a very sensible idea. We see an interruption coming from Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u75	Because Mr Klein did not receive an answer. The question was to Mr Schouw whether he and the D66 Group considered that judicial review should be extended to include fundamental social rights. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u76	I like to be inspired by the initiator. The question has been asked. The minister also looked very hungry. He thought: well, why doesn't Mr Schouw call for an answer on behalf of the cabinet as well? So he really wants to do that, too. He's giving me a sign now that I don't understand very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u77	No, we're not gonna argue with each other by signs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u78	I thought it was an interesting sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u79	I think it's an interesting question and I keep the powder dry for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u80	What I was accused of by Mr Schouw, he is now doing himself. He obviously does not want to answer the question and refers to the authors, while the only question I am asking is: what is the opinion of the D66 Group, of which Mr Schouw is a representative? Should it be extended to include fundamental social rights? Given Mr Schouw's evasive behaviour and evasive response, I assume that the answer is 'yes', but that he simply does not want to say that he thinks that the judge should be able to test the right to free time, for example. That would be the dam's fence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u81	Have you heard a question, Mr. Chairman? If you've heard a question, repeat it. Mr Taverne was so full of his own speech that he forgot to put a question to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u82	My question is whether Mr Schouw can simply answer 'yes' or 'no' to the question whether he believes, on behalf of the D66 Group, that judicial review of fundamental rights, as proposed by the proposers, should be extended to include a review of fundamental social rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u83	That is a repeat of Mr Klein's question, if I understand correctly. I can only repeat my reaction to that. I think Mr Taverne knows him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u84	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u85	Mr Schouw asks you what the question is, Mr President. I repeat him and he doesn't answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u86	Mr Taverne is asking the same question as Mr Klein. I've already answered that. Mr Taverne must pay attention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u87	I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Fokke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u88	It is to be appreciated that Mr Taverne himself would like to put forward a proposal on this subject. Mr Schouw, it is true that this is the second reading of a legislative proposal and that such a change cannot be submitted to the Chamber at all, because at second reading an initiative proposal to that effect cannot be amended. If Mr Taverne wishes to submit an own-initiative proposal, we will only welcome it after everything he has said today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u89	I must first congratulate Mrs Fokke for the sharpness of her remark and, I think, I must support her. That's the best I can do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u90	All right, then, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u91	I will call on Mr Taverne to come forward with an own-initiative proposal. That also obliges him to think about it in advance and to go to the Council of State. That always helps. The next point is the primacy of the legislator. There is no doubt that the people's representatives must have the last word within a democracy. However, the only word and the last word are not necessarily the same, although the only one who speaks will always want to have the last word. In a democracy and the rule of law, such a unanimous sound would just not be so healthy. It is the checks-and-balances, the power and counterpower that have added value to a democracy. Sometimes you see that very large political parties that go over power for a long time have some difficulty in giving that counterpower a place. There are many examples of this in history. Sometimes things go completely wrong, because without these control mechanisms the government quickly becomes a tyrant with haste, as Bas Heijne recently illustrated. The parliament controls the administration and the judge controls the implementation of laws and may also review regulations of local authorities. But who actually controls the formal legislator, the one who makes generally binding laws? That's what the voter does, of course. He votes once every four years, or sometimes every two years, in favour of his parliament, so that parliamentarians can then assess whether a law is in line with the Constitution. Despite the honour of this to me and my colleagues, the good intentions of everyone are, of course, an inspection of their own meat. As with the butcher, you would prefer to have independent supervision of the President of the European Union as well. The President is certainly aware of all that if condemnations by the ECHR and the Court of Justice of the European Union show that we are not always in a position to direct that scrutiny to the specific and special case. So we're missing a real opportunity to adjust. Fortunately, Mrs Fokke is looking at his consultative referenda as of July this year, but they are not yet binding. In order to achieve this emergency brake, a second reading of Mrs Fokke's proposal, Mrs Voortman's and myself's proposal is needed. Judicial review of the Constitution solves that problem. Some argue that this would be the failure of democracy. In my group's view it is not. It just means that the judge of the parliamentary monologue is trying to make a dialogue. It is and remains the legislator who ultimately decides what the law is. The fact that in a particular case the judge can exclude a law from application if there is a conflict with a classical fundamental right does not alter this. The third point I would like to make here is the point of 'taking it up for reality'. In the meantime, we already have a nice picture of the practice that could arise as soon as constitutional review is possible. Judges have been testing the ECHR for many years. Doing so is reluctant and appropriate. By way of illustration: the search term ECHR results in case law.nl 25,288 results and the search term Constitution only 3.397. If constitutional review on my feet were to be seen as a legislator, it should be noticeable in such large numbers. Well, I don't feel anything yet. I am still firmly on my feet, and with me the States-General, as far as I can see at the moment. I would almost say the opposite. A judicial pin prick every now and then keeps us sharp and keeps us in balance; power and adversity. It forces us to consider even better whether infringements of fundamental rights are necessary and proportionate. I would therefore like to ask the initiator whether she also has an idea that judges in the Netherlands are prudent in their powers of review and that they only correct the legislator when there is a need for that in the specific case. In conclusion, I would like to thank both the initiator, the original initiator, whom we have heard very vividly about this proposal on Twitter today, and Mrs Van Tongeren, who, incidentally, I call on her not to put her head in the lap, as she announced in a newspaper this evening. I was sorry to hear that, and I hope that is not the intention. The head is upright; we are really going to see how we can achieve a two-thirds majority here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u92	Mr. Chairman. Our Constitution often leads a miserable life. That's been said and I underline it and repeat it. It may be a little scratchy, but it's true. Whatever one may think of the Dutch constitution, it is unmistakable that it does not take the place in Dutch society and the political relations that are actually appropriate for such a document as this. If you compare that with the position of the Constitution in the United States, you can see that it is a very different one. I would like to thank the second author for reinserting this proposal. We voted in favour of this proposal at first reading. We are also in favour of it now. The first bill was brought forward in 2002 by Mrs Halsema. It has now come a very long way. Compliments for the persistence of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but I also ask Mr Taverne's question: how constitutional is it to skip a period and bring the proposal into Parliament now? Until we have a constitutional review, we must do it, Mr Taverne. I'm just trying. Will the author be able to shed light on that? I read an article by a state law scholar, Leonard Besselink, who looked around and wondered in which other countries it is like in the Netherlands. The only country with which the Netherlands is comparable in this respect is Ethiopia. The Netherlands is rather unique in the way constitutional review is designed, or rather in the absence of it. That exception does not give, but then you must have very good arguments to do it the way you do it. These arguments are missing from the Christian Union Group. Of course we know the separation of powers in the Netherlands. That's a good thing. The Christian Union Group now considers that the monitoring of the separation of powers is not sufficiently secure. The rule of law is founded, among other things, by care in the balance of power. Many countries, even France, have judicial review for that reason. The same applies, of course, to the United States. The founding fathers were very convinced that not all people are inclined to do the right thing, certainly not in power. They were therefore allergic to concentration of power. That is why constitutional review has a very important place in the rule of law. The review of laws against the Constitution takes place in this country by the legislator himself. There is a lot to be said about this, but at least this: if that review is being carried out by the legislator in a secure and adequate manner, I have challenged Mr Taverne and I have not heard an example in which it actually took place and a law was blocked in the House of Representatives that does not happen in public and is not very visible. Often it is invisible to the general public. There is therefore no identifiable court ruling here, but merely a majority opinion that a legislative proposal is compatible with the Constitution or not in the course of the debate. A parliamentary majority view, therefore, which may or may not be in line with the Council of State's earlier opinion on this point. This procedure opens up the possibility that the interpretation of constitutional provisions can ultimately be determined by laws based only on a very small majority of half plus one. Nor does the difficult amendment procedure applicable to constitutional provisions provide any solution here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u93	Mr Segers cites two examples, both of which I do not think are entirely correct as an example in support of the proposal. First, he refers to the United States. I am a great fan of American state law, but for me, the constitutional review there is an example that proves that it works as an arbitrator between federal and state powers. That was the example of the United States. That is not a good example of the Dutch situation. Will Mr Segers now say that the process of legislation and the debate on it are not public in this House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u94	As far as the first is concerned, as has been said, the Netherlands can only be compared to Ethiopia. That's probably not a federal state either, but that's the equation we have to make. Again, there can be very good arguments for that, only if you are such an exception, you must have your arguments ready. I don't see them. Then the second. What we are doing does not produce clear case law, such as constitutional review which does. If a court such as that in Karlsruhe comes up with a ruling, then it is written out, the recitals are clear and gives rise to case-law and also unity in the case-law. That is not the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u95	I strongly disagree with Mr Segers. The best case law is the history of law and these are the Acts of the meetings here in the House of Representatives. It will not be more public and transparent than that. It lays down what is being discussed in the legislative process, even when the Chamber produces it, and that is what I would like to say again about the responsibility of the members of the Chamber. What precedes the case-law is what happens in the chamber and we are not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u96	We get written statements from a court that make clear what considerations have been made and where they lead. That is not a political consideration. It's independent of a coalition agreement. We are dealing here with governmental agreements. We are dealing with a majority that is committed to a coalition agreement, to a coalition agreement. There are sometimes very political considerations and considerations that make the difference. Those considerations and considerations do not play a role in a constitutional court or in a judicial decision. These considerations are made in a very different way and give rise to case law. Laws come from the First and Second Chambers, but that is not case law such as a constitutional court or a judicial review. It really is of a different order. Mr Taverne thinks we should have a special room. That would make the review more visible in itself. The process of reviewing the Constitution is not yet transparent at all. It takes place in back rooms and study rooms of MPs. Perhaps colleagues take this very seriously, but it is not so transparent that the considerations and outcomes are clear. I was talking about the minimal majority, which ultimately brings about legislation and therefore the review is taking place. In this way, laws can be created that are at least at odds with the Constitution. This may have to do with fundamental rights, but it does not necessarily have to. It may also be a matter of other constitutional provisions. For example, I refer to the political position of the so-called BES islands following the lifting of the Netherlands Antilles. Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba were positioned as public bodies. It was very doubtful whether this was constitutionally correct, whether the phenomenon of public body was intended for that purpose. It is therefore also a question of political relations. Power needs counterpower. I've said it a few times. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, review of the Constitution should be more independent and careful. That is why my group wholeheartedly supports the Green Left proposal. If the Constitution is to be a living document for the Dutch to derive their rights properly, then more is needed than the current interpretation. If the Netherlands is to give real value to fundamental rights and thus strengthen the democratic rule of law, constitutional review is appropriate. Moreover, judicial review is not only a guarantee of fundamental rights, but also a guarantee of the institutions of the State, roughly everything after Article 1 of the Constitution. I would like to ask the applicant how she feels about this, in other words the whole Constitutional review. You might wonder why there is actually opposition to judicial review. I ask myself the same question when I listen to Mr Taverne. What's the motive to be so horribly opposed to that? It is striking that I hear most of the criticism from the incumbent powers. That's a character trait that often reveals itself. This is also the case with Mr Taverne's proposal to delete the review of treaties. That is because it affects us, because a counterpower sometimes gets in our way. The people with power, the people with power, must organize their own contradictions. Why? People are not automatically inclined to the good and certainly not in power. For the Christian Union, the ideal situation is that there will also be a constitutional court, so that the Constitution will also be clearly explained and implemented in the last instance. We have had a very complicated legal procedure around our fellow party the SGP. There was a uniformity of opinion, both by the Supreme Court and by the Council of State. That was a very delicate situation. At least there was no uniformity at that point. I ask the Minister in his opinion on the current situation. We still have several highest dishes. How does he feel about that? Are there plans to introduce more uniformity in this area? There is an annoying tendency in the Netherlands not to take the Constitution seriously. There are fundamental rights, but you can limit them by law. There is therefore no substantive limitation on the restriction, only a formality. There are several examples in which constitutional provisions stand in the way. I will close, by asking one more time: with what argument? The existing powers in our country have difficulty in dealing with the fact that they are sometimes thwarted, because the coalition does not have a majority in the First Chamber, through the participation of difficult citizens or students or by judges who do more than take a marginal test. That is why I ask the opponents of constitutional review to reflect on their arguments and motives. So far, I'm just putting them together as a fear of losing power. In the meantime, I very much agree with the proposal before us, and I hope that Mr Schouw, who is having a cup of coffee, will achieve a two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u97	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, it does not happen very often that we are discussing an amendment to the Constitution in this Chamber, but at second reading. So this is a special moment in itself. I would, of course, like to start by complimenting Mrs Van Tongeren on the subject of vocational training and, of course, the supporters. She can defend the bill here. These compliments are certainly due to Mrs Halsema, who first submitted this bill in 2002 and managed to steer it through both Chambers. That wasn't nothing. We are now thirteen years away, but that is certainly also because it is really about something. The subject has a huge history. There's really a lot to say about what I won't do. Therefore also compliment GroenLinks for this persistence. The compliments of the SP also concern the content of this bill. Both in the Lower House and in the Upper House, the SP supported this bill. I can be clear immediately: we have not changed our minds. I will not keep Mrs Van Tongeren on that any longer. Article 120 of the Constitution now says that the judge does not intervene in the assessment of the constitutionality of laws and treaties. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today adds a second paragraph which allows for a number of constitutional rules to be reviewed. Laws shall remain inapplicable if that application is not compatible with a number of specifically mentioned provisions of the Constitution, in particular classical fundamental rights. The idea behind the current prohibition of review is that the legislator already takes into account the Constitution, fundamental rights and any conflict with them when making a law or article of law. That could be understood as the inviolability of the law and the primacy of the legislator. However, I do not think that immunity actually exists anymore. We have known for decades, since 1953, the possibility for judges to review laws against provisions of international treaties that are binding on everyone, such as the European Convention on Human Rights. It happens all the time. Lower legislation may also be reviewed. In other words, the immunity of the law was no longer so strict. Thus, the prohibition of review of Article 120 of the Constitution had already become a fiction. However, there has been strong opposition from some political groups, particularly one group, to further restricting or abolishing the prohibition of scrutiny, because it is the democratically elected legislator who has to take fundamental rights into account and because the judge should not have the last word. In my view, these groups are a little afraid that a judge will sit in the seat of the democratically elected legislator. The SP isn't afraid of that. Either the legislator has taken due account of the Constitution and its fundamental rights. Then we don't have to be afraid to be whistled back by the judge. Either the legislator did not take proper or insufficient account of this. In that case, it's a good thing the judge can check that out. In fact, it will force the legislator more than now to take our fundamental rights into account when introducing new legislation. In my view, therefore, there is nothing to worry about, or at least not about, Mrs van Tongeren's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u98	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is concerned about the example Mr Van Nispen has mentioned: the comparison with the ECHR, for example. The application of the ECHR in recent decades shows an inevitable tendency towards an extremely creative and ever-expanding interpretation by judges of the ECHR. This has led to the fact that in the United Kingdom, for example, that is the oldest democracy in the western world, not a banana republic after all, the Minister of the Interior and later the Prime Minister proposed that, if, for example, the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg continues as it is now doing, the United Kingdom might withdraw from the European Court of Justice. With that example in mind, is it naive to think that if judicial review were allowed in the Netherlands, there would not be such an expansionary interpretation here, which would lead to a further erosion of Dutch fundamental rights as laid down in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u99	I am not afraid of that at all, and I really disagree with Mr Taverne. He seems to me now as someone who says: fundamental rights and human rights are above all a little in favour of it when it comes to it. If there are judges in the United Kingdom who look very critically at it and who at some point think they need to explain a provision in a way that the United Kingdom does not like at some point, then that may be so. That is what fundamental rights and human rights are for. This is a critical counterpower. I certainly do not see this as an erosion of democracy, but as an addition to democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u100	I do not agree with Mr Van Nispen on this point, but that is almost obvious. I do not agree with him, precisely because I believe that fundamental rights are of such importance that you should avoid undermining them. I say again that the VVD has a history on this point as well. Fundamental rights are of great importance, regardless of whether they are international, treaty-based or national. Surely you cannot argue on good grounds that there is no serious erosion of the ECHR and its rights? Surely that will not be any different if you apply this in the same way in the Netherlands? Then it'll go the same way, won't it? There's no other way, is there? In the end, this is bad for fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u101	No, not at all. Firstly, Mr Taverne is quite sure that there is an erosion and that you cannot deny that this is the case. I don't see that hollowing. I don't think there's any erosion. Yes, of course there is criticism of court rulings. With this criticism, we in the Chamber must, of course, be cautious. However, there is such criticism in society, particularly in the United Kingdom. However, it is healthy that there is such criticism. I am proud that we in the Netherlands do not, in any case, choose by a majority to continue with this criticism. I am proud that we in the Netherlands do not say in a majority: that margin of appreciation, that margin of appreciation, can be stretched a bit, because in the Netherlands we suffer from the European Court of Human Rights. So, no, I really do not agree with Mr Taverne on that point. The VVD Group insists on having a history of fundamental rights and human rights. In addition, it itself proposes that laws should no longer be subject to international conventions, but at the same time refuses to support the present proposal. That way, in my opinion, you don't have that much right to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u102	Mr Van Nispen continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u103	In short, the SP Group will be happy if, following the adoption of this law, people can say in an individual trial that a law is contrary to the Constitution, after which the judge can test it. That's really not a crazy construction. So it's not weird if today the Lower House and later the Upper House decided to make this possible. It remains an important task of the Members of Parliament to monitor fundamental rights, in everything they do and especially in making new laws. However, this bill adds the judge as a modest co-developer of our fundamental rights. That is very reasonable; that is even good. The judge and the legislator are then jointly responsible for it. I do not therefore see this as a hollowing out of our parliamentary democracy, but as an interplay of the various state powers. This does not mean that the legislator will be able to sit back on the subject of the monitoring of fundamental rights, because there is still the judge. It's not like that. Of course, that can never be the result of this law, which I do not think is the result either, but we are, of course, there ourselves. Members of Parliament have a heavy responsibility, now and in the future, in monitoring and defending the Constitution and its fundamental rights. That is what we must continue to do. I ask the initiator if she sees it that way. Finally, I would like to ask the initiator, but especially the Minister of the Interior, whether they would be in favour of adding an explicit fundamental rights paragraph to new legislation. We often read about the ECHR, the European Convention on Human Rights in law, but the Constitution is often ignored. I do not think that is entirely right. That is why the proposal to pay more attention to fundamental rights than is currently the case in the case of new laws. That is, whether this bill is adopted or not, I sincerely hope that it will happen, but perhaps that is a good way of forcing us as legislators to pay more and therefore more explicit attention to fundamental rights in the legislative process in the future. I am very interested in the reaction of the applicant, and in particular the Minister, to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u104	Madam President. Can judges review the laws against the Constitution? This important question has repeatedly been forced upon us over the last few centuries when we are working with a Constitution. That is also a very logical question in the context of the trias politicians, as we have designed them. The Constitution is one of the most important state documents we know. Laws must not, of course, conflict with that. I could keep a whole story here about how the debate on whether or not to test the Constitution developed in the nineteenth century, but I will spare you that. If desired, I am too prepared to give you a wonderful article on this subject. I will decide until the Constitution of 1848. The very explicit inclusion of the prohibition of scrutiny in the Constitution was the result of the prior discussion on whether or not the courts should review the laws against the Constitution. The result of the Constitution, as expressed at the time, was: the laws are inviolable. Much later, this was changed in the current Article 120 of the Constitution, which states that the judge does not take part in the assessment of the constitutionality of laws and treaties. That sounds a lot nicer, but that meant the same thing. During the last more than a century and a half since 1848 this has been discussed regularly. The pros and cons of a ban on constitutional review have also been discussed once and for all. In that respect, the Bible book Ecclesiastes is right: there is not so much news under the sun, what is now, has already been. I would like to dwell on two points. First of all, I would like to say something about the time lag and then I will go into the argument underlying our position. I ran into a wonderful document in the file. That document contains the phrase: the initiative proposal will be referred to the Court as soon as possible after the decision to dissolve the present Second Chamber. To avoid misunderstandings, this is a piece from the 2008/09 meeting, after the proposal had passed the First Chamber. As soon as possible after the dissolution of the present Lower House. It is now eleven years ago, in 2004 it was, that the proposal was accepted in the Lower House at first reading. The First Chamber agreed to it in 2008, with one vote difference. I'm just gonna remind you of that. Now, seven years later, we are finally discussing the proposal for a second reading. That is why I have a question for the Minister. Frankly, the SGP does not consider the time lag appropriate to a constitutional change. A proposal for a second reading must be submitted soon after the election of the House of Representatives. That was also the intention expressed in the quoted document. That should not take so long. It would then appear that the second reading is being used at the moment when political support appears. Even if there will certainly be good reasons for this, I know from experience how difficult it is for a member of a small group to make sufficient time for such an initiative. Moreover, according to the opinion of the Council of State, it is not formally contrary to the Constitution, I must add, for the sake of fairness. At the same time, the Council considers that adjustment may be desirable. Would the Minister like to take a closer look at whether Article 137 of the Constitution needs to be amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u105	I have a little question. I share the first point that, after the Chamber has been dissolved, you should deal with the bill again immediately. That's right. There is, however, one more thing, namely the passage that you should not wait for a Chamber that is pleasing to you. Is my opinion shared that tonight you cannot really say that the initiator has been waiting for a Chamber that is acceptable to her? If you take a moment to reason, there is no two-thirds majority here today for this initiative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u106	I do not know to what extent this has been a consideration at all. We have recently noted that there may not be a two-thirds majority in favour of the support, but in view of the earlier voting relationships in the House of Representatives, we might expect that tonight in this section that two-thirds could have been there. But again, I do not know to what extent the initiator has allowed this to be taken into account at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u107	The first point is correct; it is here and there with the Constitution. The explanation of the Council of State, given earlier by former Minister De Graaf, is that you should not wait for a Chamber that pleases you. In 2010 it was already known that the VVD would not agree, because I think an interview was already published in the newspaper. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that that second part may not be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u108	I suggest that as a possibility and attach to it the objection why subsequent treatment is undesirable. In the light of the SGP, it is desirable that the second reading should take place after the first reading in the immediate subsequent period. That's the spirit. It should not be the case at all that the consideration of whether or not there is a political majority can have a decisive influence on the question of whether or not it should be placed on the agenda at second reading. That's what I'm saying. Mr. Chairman. I come to the following heading: the argumentation. I should like to speak briefly about the content of the proposal. The arguments have already been discussed in detail at first reading. I should briefly like to mention the reasons for the SGP's vote in favour at the time. Firstly, there is also the possibility of testing treaties. This will lead to an erosion of the national Constitution and fundamental rights in the event of a ban on constitutional review. My colleague Van der Staaij mentioned this as a remarkable imbalance at the time. Secondly, unfortunately, the legislator does not always act as guardian of the Constitution and fundamental rights. Concrete recent examples are the ban on ritual slaughter and the law of initiative concerning the conscientious objectioned wedding officer, who passed both the First and Second Chambers, despite the fact that fundamental rights were extremely visible and audible. Thirdly, fundamental rights are crucial in our democratic rule of law. They must therefore be a central touchstone in the legal process. Fourthly, the threat of reviewing a law against the Constitution may indirectly result in the Lower House and certainly the Upper House expressing themselves more explicitly as to why a particular bill is compatible with the Constitution. In all this, of course, there is no doubt that the review of laws in the Constitution is primarily a matter for the legislator. I would like to include every colleague who has argued that. The legislator, the cabinet and the parliament have an important role to play in ensuring that laws are constitutionally correct. As long as we do our work here and across the street, we do not have to be afraid of a judge's judgment. The SGP found and considers it crucial that the review of the Constitution improves firmly in parliament, but if the cabinet and parliament fail, do wrong to groups in society that ask for justice, then no, as far as we are concerned, the judge should do what this proposal tells him to do, namely to check on fundamental rights. So we certainly also see that there are risks involved in judicial review. Not everything a judge says is by definition right and fair. Judges can also make political and therefore debatable judgments. The judgments of judges may differ, as the Dutch judicial review practice shows. If the judge makes improper use of the opportunity offered to him to review, the other way around must speak again to the legislator. A judge's ruling is not the end of the discussion, but the beginning of a new debate. That is the dynamic inherent in the establishment of the trias politicians we have shaped in our state system. The SGP will therefore support this proposal in line with our position in 2004, the pros and cons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u109	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to pay my sincere compliments to Mrs Van Tongeren and her supporters. From my own experience, I know how much work an initiative proposal can be. But it is also remarkable that this is a second reading bill. That's really special. I'd like to compliment her on that. It's an important step. I wish her, as well as the supporters, success with the answer that comes next. I know from my own experience that they play a very important role in ensuring that legislation goes well through the Chambers. The introduction of constitutional review represents a significant change in the constitutional system. Perhaps it is nice to quote the now deceased First MP for the CDA, Alfons Dölle. He said it very strikingly during the treatment in the First Chamber: "The weight is moved from the leg of the Dutch legislator to the leg of the Dutch judge." This shift from the primacy of the legislature to a form of legal form by the judiciary, the CDA Group considers not only undesirable but also fundamentally incorrect. The legislative body representing the people is regularly accountable to the electorate. This aspect is lacking in the case of a judge appointed for life. The key question is who should ultimately be considered more appropriate for the interpretation and development of the Constitution. Is that the legislator or the judge? That seems to me to be a good question to ask the initiator in the context of this debate as well. The work in this field requires both legal knowledge and political insight. The Constitution must also be adapted to new problems and changing situations. This applies both to the legislator and to the judge. In the event of a conflict, the CDA really prefers the opinion of the legislative bodies. The composition of the Second and First Chambers is precisely intended to keep them informed of the state of society. What unconstitutional law or provision justifies the shift proposed by the petitioner? Is it not based too much on an unmistakable and objective conflict with the Constitution? The interpretation of the Constitution should, in the final analysis, be in the hands of the legislator rather than the judge, but of course the legislator does not have a licence to violate the Constitution. Does the petitioner recognize that? There is also the element of legal uncertainty. Is the operation of a law suspended when there is a review procedure against the law itself or against certain articles of the law? Can the law still be fully implemented as the legislator intended? We also asked this question in the written round, but I would appreciate it if we could continue to talk about it in the debate that we will discuss further. I think this is also very important for the history of law. Furthermore, the CDA Group asks about the consequences of declaring the provision of law unbinding. Does this not force the legislator to amend the article of the law? Or does he have the opportunity to dismiss the judgment? Finally, the CDA Group asks the petitioner how it sees the relationship between its proposal and the jurisdiction of the court with regard to the legislative process. I think it would be a good idea for that to be explained. The Supreme Court has expressly considered that the judge should refrain from taking decisions primarily on the basis of political judgement. Even acting within the framework of a proposed law may hinder a judicial review of the action of the government. My sentences have now become a little complicated because I quote the Supreme Court, but in the system in which the court does not have the judgment that there has been an unlawful act because no procedural rules have been infringed in the preparation and handling of the law in question, it would not be consistent, according to the Supreme Court, with the fact that, in the course of the procedure leading to a law in a formal sense, the judge may consider that the procedural rules have not been complied with and that he can therefore intervene in the legislative process on that basis. My specific question is: what are the consequences of the present legislative proposal on the relationship between the legislator and the judge? The CDA voted against at the first reading in the Second and First Chambers. The CDA still sees no added value in this bill. However, that is independent of the fact that I am looking forward to a good debate with the author, so that we can discuss the key points of this law with each other for the future and for the history of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u110	I have listened with respect to Mrs Bruins Slot's speech. However, I missed one element: the international aspect. How does it see the Article 94 route, as it is called, and thus the possibility for the courts to check against international conventions? In fact, this is a way of circumventing the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u111	We have signed these international conventions, so that can be verified. That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u112	I can also understand a little better what Mr Taverne said next. He said, like, we shouldn't want anything to do with that international thing, so that Article 94 can come out. If you think that is a good route, I cannot reconcile that with your view that judicial review of the Constitution is a bad route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u113	In the end, these are two different issues. Of course, we are going to deal with Mr Taverne's own-initiative proposal. I suspect that we will have a very wide-ranging exchange of views on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u114	Mr. Chairman. Apart from our appreciation of the substance, my group is always very much in favour of any initiative taken by any initiator. But of course this is all the more true now that the esteemed colleague Van Tongeren is the author of this bill, and especially when my political example Femke Halsema has been at the cradle of it. On 17 July, Willem Witteveen dismissed the law as a work of art. If you go through that equation, the legislator is a real artist. Art is not always easy to interpret. Not for me, most of the time. Artists are also not always easy to follow in their motives. Moreover, the question is whether the relevance of art remains universal and unchanging. The same, you might say, applies to laws. The legislator can still determine exactly what is right and in accordance with the Constitution, but sooner or later a judge will face an individual case where it is not at all clear how a law is to be interpreted and whether a law can pass the constitutional test in individual cases. Sometimes you can even assume that the original intention of the legislator has become obsolete over time, or vice versa, has gained relevance. As far as my group is concerned, judges must have the freedom, of course within limits, to interpret the intentions of the legislator and to assess how a particular law should be applied in a particular case. I quote Maarten Feteris, the new President of the Supreme Court in the Netherlands: we speak law in a case, but our added value consists of clarity for hundreds, thousands of cases. Precisely this element of the work of judges seems to be the main argument for opponents not to judge laws for constitutionality in individual cases. The judge would, as opponents claim, sit on the legislative chair if he could form an opinion on the relationship between the law in question and the Constitution. That raises a rhetorical question. Does the legislator, including parliament, consider it possible to give a ruling on the constitutionality of the implementation of that law in all conceivable cases, now and in the future, and at present unthinkable? Whoever promises that knows that that promise cannot be kept. The judicial test is, above all, a different one from that of the legislator. The Constitution is only interpreted politically by the government and parliament. Of course, that test is politically coloured. The judicial test proposed in this initiative provides for a legal test as purely as possible. It is very limited, largely Modo to classical fundamental rights. In the end, the judge can come to the conclusion that the application of a law is unconstitutional. This does not explicitly lead to the abolition of laws. It is limited to declaring non-binding in a specific case. The legislator can always correct such a gap by providing for clearer legislation. With this, the primacy remains with the Chambers. Article 120 of our Constitution prohibits judges from reviewing laws against the Dutch Constitution. In its news report earlier this week, the Justice Council talks about an out-of-date relic from 1848. The consequence of the prohibition of scrutiny is that we cannot guarantee that Dutch laws and their implementation comply with the Constitution in all circumstances. I find that an intolerable thought, and with me many others. The Netherlands is now unique in enforcing the review ban. In preparing this bill I heard a nice anecdote. The original initiator, Femke Halsema, stated at first reading that the Netherlands and Finland do not have a constitutional review. After she had said so, she was called personally and on high feet by the Finnish ambassador, who asked her if he could come by. He wanted to make it clear that Finland definitely did not belong in that list. Finland does indeed have a constitutional review. I am therefore impressed not to make mistakes, so that the same fate is spared me. In the Netherlands, too, the aid for the lifting of the review ban is massive. The Council of State, the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice and the Order of Lawyers are all in favour of constitutional review. They all see the potential gaps in the legal protection of citizens. Judges can, of course, always fall back on the human rights treaties. Our message to the Dutch judge and in Dutch cases is: you have the Dutch Constitution in hand, but you must rely on the human rights treaties, which offer considerably less protection. In fact, we say that the Constitution, however important and wonderfully formulated, is nothing more than a guide for the legislator and we trust that the legislator knows what is constitutionally good for us. I think that is too limited a view. I'll be back on Willem Witteveen. In his impressive book De wet as a work of art he writes: A wise legislator should not ask the judge over. The question we need to answer at the moment is whether you are questioning judges, not because of the huge caseload and production figures, but perhaps rather by depriving them of the opportunity, in obvious cases, to provide those seeking legal protection which is sometimes bitterly necessary. Thorbecke mentioned the prohibition of review from its introduction as the downright lighthearted one, because not entirely on the merits assessed introduction in 1848 was a historical mistake. According to him, the prohibition of review condemned his Constitution to the status of a dead letter. If the judge is not allowed to review the laws against the Constitution, the Constitution will cease to be a Constitution. No one should stand in front of the Constitution as a closed door, says Thorbecke. That call is more relevant than ever. In a multicultural society with conflicting fundamental rights and associated tensions, the need for a peaceful forum to resolve conflicts of this kind is greater than ever. I am therefore convinced that constitutional review can play a crucial role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u115	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiator for continuing the initiative proposal at second reading. That gives me the opportunity to make a contribution from a free-minded perspective on the issue of constitutional review. The Netherlands has a remarkable system regarding the position of our Constitution. The Constitution should be seen as the foundation of our legal system and thus as the bearer of our laws. The Constitution must be seen in its function as the State's legitimacy, at the heart of our constitutional law. A misunderstanding is that you can use the Constitution in actions between citizens. They are always based on the formal laws. So, as a citizen, you can hope that these laws are in line with the Constitution. If the legislator makes laws that are contrary to or at odds with the Constitution, the checks-and-balances between courts and legislators have disappeared. Only the legislator, the First and Second Chambers of the States-General, may review a law in the legislative process in accordance with the Constitution. An independent body, the judge, has checked. That makes us Europeans an outcast. The Constitution itself is also a product of the States-General, together with the government. So the hard reality is that the butcher actually approves his own flesh, as has already been mentioned by others. We do not think that this situation is acceptable for a growing number of social issues at present. The approval of own meat in the base is a situation that is absolutely wrong from a free-minded perspective. The basis for liberal politics is the trias politician, the doctrine of the three balanced institutions of the State: legislation, implementation and justice. The Constitution is not only the constitutional foundation, but also the cement between the laws. Strangely enough, the situation in the Netherlands is that the independent case-law is not allowed to comment on that cement. Constitutional review is not permitted. This situation can be described internationally as unique in comparison to the same democratic legal systems, whether federative or not. Fortunately, holes have arisen over time, or rather: holes. On the one hand, these have been created by allowing the courts to review laws against all binding international conventions and decisions of international organisations by means of Article 94 of the Constitution. On the other hand, they have been created by the fact that the European Court of Justice can in fact circumvent the Constitution in relation to fundamental rights. Acceptance of Article 120 of the Constitution is also inspired by our two-chamber system, which is also curious from a free-minded perspective. By reviewing the laws of the Constitution itself in two chambers, the legislator would prevent any distortion or conflict between a law in progress and the Constitution. In fact, the existence of the First Chamber is defended on the assumption that that Chamber looks carefully at a law adopted by the Second Chamber, including the relationship of the law with the Constitution. A possible incompetence of the directly elected Second Chamber must therefore be corrected by the indirectly elected First Chamber. This situation alone means that I do not think it is entirely appropriate to allow the constitutional anomaly of the existence of the Supreme Court to continue. Eventually, for many other reasons, it makes no sense that we still have a First Chamber. I will not go into that further in this regard. This debate will undoubtedly continue in the coming years. However, the necessity of the First Chamber in connection with the prohibition of constitutional review is important for the assessment of the present initiative proposal to amend the Constitution. If, in fact, the U-turn construction of international law already carries out a substantive review, the retention of a ban on constitutional review is no longer the case at this time. This situation, in conjunction with my earlier remark that something has already gone wrong in the balance sheet of the separation of powers, means that I agree with the principle of lifting the ban on constitutional review. It is therefore a good thing that the initiative is now also before us at second reading. This will allow further discussion and consideration. We are working on the second reading of this proposal and my group was unable to take part in the first reading because it was not in the Chamber at the time. She realizes that. The present proposal does not really go far enough for my group on two points. The first is the subject of the review. The second point concerns the question of who is allowed to test. Let me start with the first point. First of all, it remains to be seen whether it is only possible to review classical fundamental rights in the Constitution. Social fundamental rights are therefore excluded, but I think it is far more serious that fundamental principles of law can be violated. Institutional review is not possible. In my opinion, then, there are two issues of importance: legal protection versus security and the functioning of democracy. The first concerns legislation which, from the point of view of absolute security, neglects the legal protection of the individual, for example by cutting off legal proceedings. The second concerns the principle of an open system of proportional representation which is restricted by the interests of sitting MPs and their political parties. This applies, for example, to the Media Act and the assignment to public broadcasters to contribute to the pluralism of society. However, it also applies to unequal rules in the Kieswet. They can't be tested. Why should not all the laws be reviewed by the independent judge in accordance with the entire Constitution? Why was it chosen for a trick-or-treating hole? This essentially maintains the principle of the inviolability of laws and from a political point of view nothing has been achieved at all. The emergence of problems of national importance could be a reason not to. It would then be more logical to rely on the principle that constitutional review of laws is always possible, unless the Constitution prohibits it for specific situations. That is therefore an opposite argument. I would like to hear a response from the initiator and the Minister. The second point concerns the question of who is allowed to test? The initiator shall opt for a judicial review within the system of the current judiciary. In short, any judge may not apply a law on grounds of conflict with the Constitution. Then the seeker again depends on the insight of the individual judge. The Constitution may or may not be taken as a measure of the law at random. Or, and this seems to be a logical consequence, there may be the necessary case law, which judges will then comply with. If that happens, and why not, then indeed the strange situation arises that the law that has been democratically created by the States-General and the government is changed by case law. Then the opposite arises: the power separation problem that I started with. After all, the judge himself is not democratically legitimized. It is also strange that the Constitution, which explicitly has a national unitary function for the rule of law, the aforementioned foundation, is then, in fact, going into a system of diffuse scrutiny. This leads me to ask the initiator to consider once again why a central national body given the power to review the laws of the Constitution would not be better. I would also like to consider the following. I will call such a central body a constitutionally representative court for ease of reference. That is why, at some point in time, I am thinking of an image that fits well in the legal equation, for example with the Conseil Constitutonnel in France, by the way, a unitary state. So national review is important in one place in our constitutional system. In my view, there should be some kind of hybrid organ written there, hybrid because it has characteristics of independent judiciary that is allowed to test. On the other hand, I would argue in favour of democratically organising the appointment of the members of the court, similar to the democratically elected judges in the United States of America. As a result, the objection that non-democratically legitimised people could cross a democratic process of legislation could be removed with representative members of the court. In my view, too, the way is then clear to lift the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u116	You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u117	There will be a whole piece on why the First Chamber can be dissolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u118	Then I shall give Mrs Fokke the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u119	If, in the context of this initiative proposal, Mr Klein advocates constitutional review, does he believe that the case law is not working at the moment? It happens often that a judge, or a higher judge, makes a judgment. But it's certainly not some kind of banana republic. So he doesn't think justice is working at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u120	No, it is not at all a question of whether the current legal system, the case law, is working or not. The question is what should be the relationship between, on the one hand, the Constitution, of national interest, and the judiciary. Then you can opt for a kind of constitutional body, so you can also avoid creating a situation in which, for example, in the course of justice the questions that have been asked are raised: how does a law go, is it possible to appeal or are you ultimately dependent on a course of justice to the Supreme Court? And is the Supreme Court actually going to take the position of a constitutional court? That does not seem to me to be very sensible, so it is also an organisational question and no form of disqualification from the judiciary. However, when it comes to differences in judgments between judges, you can say that the Constitution is too important, too much of a higher order for individual case law to arise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u121	Mrs. Fokke, in the second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u122	Is it not the case at the moment that, if necessary, a ruling on a fundamental point is made quite quickly by a higher court? Indeed, we have agreed that you must first go to a lower court and then to a higher court. So why should the higher court, which we already have in the Netherlands at the moment, not be able to fulfil this function? Why, in the context of this bill and in the context of the trias politicians we already have, would you like to put in place a very separate system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u123	Because, on the one hand, I consider it important to let this be independent, and, on the other hand, that is the element I add to it: the element of democratic legitimacy in that new body, the constitutionally representative court, as I have called it, in order to pave the way for the abolition of the First Chamber. As a result, on the one hand, you have democratic legitimacy, but on the other hand, you also have a situation that is different from the current situation with regard to the independent Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u124	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u125	Indeed, that First Chamber could, in my view, get rid of it, because that scrutiny by the First Chamber of new laws to the Constitution, in order to avoid hasty legislation of the Second Chamber which is in fact a disavour of the Second Chamber, could always function as a back-up by the Constitutional Representative Court, by guaranteeing the constitutionality of laws and guaranteeing careful legislation. I'll come to a conclusion. Constitutional review of laws belongs from a free-minded perspective in a modern democratic rule of law, and not through a narrow path as presented today. You can also see it as a beginning, but then there must be a real perspective in the area of integrated testing. I would like to hear how the initiator looks at this. The road does not go through the existing judiciary either. I've just spoken to Mrs. Fokke about that. I am in favour of forming a constitutionally representative court. In other words and viewed positively: the current choice can be seen as an upfront to such a court, because constitutionally negative assessment of legislation is then surrounded by a framework of case law. This also contributes to our legal system. In addition to all the constitutional considerations, it is ultimately about the principle of social acceptance of our legal system, our rule of law. The rule of law is worth not being defended alone. It certainly needs to be strengthened in turbulent times. This includes constitutional review of laws. Finally, I wish the initiator and the Minister wisdom in their response to this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u126	I call Mr Bosma. He speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u127	You're doing an excellent job, Mr. President. I hope you'll be ahead more often in the future. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the initiator. Today, it is a bit of a habit for initiators of legislative proposals to leave the Chamber and for other MPs to take over. Today there is no exception, but it is nice that Mrs Van Tongeren has taken over. This is always worth congratulating, because it gives substance to the highest thing we do as MPs, namely to be a co-legislator. There's always a congratulations to that. Mr Segers just kicked off for his input. He noted that the Constitution had a somewhat poor existence in the Netherlands. He put that against the position of the Constitution in the United States. Mr Segers did not say it with many words, but he seemed to see it as a kind of beckoning perspective. That brought me back to the time when I was allowed to live in the United States and study there. I spent years studying the U.S. Constitution, the American Constitution. I have not so much studied the Constitution as I have studied its interpretation. The explanation of the American constitution is a science in itself there. It has provided libraries, not to say warehouses full of case law. That is very, very, very interesting, but one of the conclusions I have drawn from all these years I have spent in libraries of this kind is that we should not want that in the Netherlands. It's really an exegesis out there. The professors I taught about the U.S. Constitution were all orthodox-Jewish people. They all had an extensive background in the exegesis of the sacred scriptures, such as the Choumash and the midrash. Their enormous erudition moved towards the constitution. The U.S. Constitution has now almost acquired some kind of divine status. He's not changeable either. The Dutch Constitution is very young, but the American Constitution dates back to 1787. You can't change it because he's gotten almost divine status. This is due, among other things, to the case law and the exegesis. That also means that judges in the United States have enormous power. That certainly applies to the Supreme Court, which explains laws. I know Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal is not specifically about a Supreme Court, but it is about explaining laws. The judges in America, at least those of the Supreme Court, have a huge role in America. Dramatic policy changes in America are not the result of what democratically elected politicians have decided, but of the interpretation of the Constitution by judges, members of the Supreme Court. Plessy versus Ferguson from 1896, which justified segregation, i.e. racial separation, apartheid, was an explanation from the Supreme Court: "separate but equal." The Brown versus Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas, from 1954, in which it was said that separate but equal is unconstitutional, is again at odds with that. Then U.S. federal troops had to go to Arkansas to apply that and make sure those kids went to school mixed up. Roe versus Wade from 1973 legalized abortion. Korematsu versus United States of America from 1943 has ratified the capture of Japanese during the Second World War. That was very far-reaching. When we look at Hill Street Blues or n'importe which detective series, is always said by one policeman to another: did you read his Miranda? Have you told the arresting officer his rights yet? Miranda is Miranda versus Arizona, which says that you should always read to an arrested person his rights: anything you say can and will be used against you, et cetera. That's a Supreme Court ruling. Mr Schouw just said that every American knows the first rule of the American constitution. He said this is "We the People." Mr Schouw, of course, made quite a mistake, because that is not the first rule of the American constitution, but of the preamble. That is also interesting, because that preamble begins with: We the people of the United States of America in order to form a more perfect union et cetera, et cetera. All these words have been explained in the preamble. That's what exegesis was all about. I'm just gonna tell you how far you can explain it. "We the people" has been explained in relation to the use of public set-aside land. "We the people" should be able to use it, as explained by the Supreme Court. The New Deal Prizes were awarded as a result of the Constitution's interpretation. Also in the whole discussion about NAFTA, a sort of European Union of the United States, statements have been made that this is contrary to the idea of "We the People." "We the people" means that the Supreme Court not only addresses states, but can also provide citizens with rules. The slogan "of the United States" has also been explained. There was an American soldier in China who killed someone there. He said, "Hello, I was in China." The Supreme Court said that's right, you were an American citizen, but it happened outside of America. "A more perfect union" has also been explained, for example in the sense that laws apply to all people and thus go beyond state laws. I know Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal does not want to create a Supreme Court, but it is about explanation. The proposal can, no: will mean that all kinds of people, in this case judges, will explain and interpret the laws. That's not something we need to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u128	I hear the flu is going around the PVV group; getting better. But that aside. Mr Bosma is moving very smoothly from the Constitution to the Supreme Court, but that is really something else. I was talking about the fact that the Constitution is indeed a lively asset. Mr Bosma then commented on the case law of the Surpeme Court and on what could go wrong. If he compares that with Europe and involves our situation in comparison with the rest of Europe, the fact that we are an exception. Where does it go terribly wrong with the constitutional review in European countries, which justifies the fact that we are the only countries in Europe that do not know them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u129	I don't know if it's gonna go wrong. That's not the question. The question is whether we should move forward that laws in the Netherlands are going to be subject to such an exegesis and that this review is not going to be done by people like us, who have been elected as representatives of the people, but by people who have not been elected. Mr Klein says that in America the judges are democratically elected, but that does not apply to those who first of all explain the constitution and exegesis on the constitution. They were simply chosen and appointed by the president. I think that is contrary to our parliamentary democracy, and that is why we should not go in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u130	That was not an answer to my question. The point is that we are organizing counterpower. We must be able, as rulers, to be contradicted as legislators. This can be done by means of constitutional review. We are the only European country that does not have such a thing. You can go very deeply into the enormous exegesis that is taking place in the United States, but leave that aside. Look at Germany, look at France, look at Finland. Where does it go terribly wrong and where do you see that there are undemocratic practices that justify the position taken by the PVV Group now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u131	I am not familiar with the situation in Finland. He's playing a big role tonight. I do not know if things are going wrong elsewhere, but I do know that if this proposal were to be adopted, it would open the way to failure. There are all kinds of things in our Constitution. The right to meaningful leisure activities. Well, I know judges who're gonna explain that in a fun, playful way. I have just given you all examples of exegeses of the most bizarre things. The three words "we the people" are full of libraries. That's one. Two: all kinds of crucial decisions have been made in American history. I call abortion, I call racial separation, the lifting of racial separation, as an exegesis on a constitution. I find that totally bizarre! Those decisions must be made politically, by politically elected people and not by judges who have not been elected, and who have also been appointed by a president. You shouldn't want that, and I shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u132	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u133	Mr Segers also mentioned that the founding fathers were so permeated by the separation of powers. In a sense, he's right about that. By the way, the founding fathers were primarily the people who wrote the declaration of independence. It was only eleven years later that they were the framers of the Constitution. He is right that the framers were aware of the need for the separation of powers. However, if you look at the practice, there is not much left of that separation of powers. Robert Bork, who, 30 years ago, I believe under Reagan, was still appointed a member of the Supreme Court, although that did not happen, wrote a beautiful book, Slouching towards Gomorrah. Christian people should read all that. He wrote that there is actually a coup d'état going on of judges who actually use the constitution politically. Mr Segers also referred to a living constitution. I don't know if he realizes that, but there's a huge discussion going on in America. A professor of mine wrote a book called Living Constitution. He almost sees the constitution as symbolic. That's a bit like people say: the Bible is just symbolic. The letter of the Constitution is therefore completely abandoned and it is given a much broader explanation. The Supreme Court has just become a legislator. Then there is not so much left of the cry "Separation of Powers." It has become a legislative body, because everything, the examples I just mentioned, are just policy. In the conservative magazines I sometimes read, like National Review, you have beautiful sections under the heading Judicial Activism, because those judges have decided a lot of things that do very well in progressive angle. They often rely on policy. The Supreme Court had an opinion on Chrysler's bankruptcy. Obamacare is part of the explanation of the constitution of 1787. Fortunately, ours is a little younger. The Supreme Court has become a legislative power and the judges will also become a legislative power in Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal. In America, a great deal of attention is paid to the composition of the Supreme Court. A few weeks ago, one of the nine judges, Ruth Bader Ginsberg, became unwell during the State of the Union. She's already a little older and there was immediately speculation about what would happen if she switched the temporary with the eternal. It is regarded as a liberal judge. Will Obama still appoint a liberal judge? Those nine judges are getting very close-knited. Judge Rehnquist was a real liberal, but now Judge Roberts is there, who is much more of a conservative. Once again, I understand that this proposal is not about a Supreme Court, but the composition of the judiciary will be more important. The judiciary in the Netherlands is not characterised by too much diversity. The opinion polls among Dutch judges show that D66 and GroenLinks are heavily overrepresented. In America it is monitored which judge goes and which comes, and whether he has a more liberal or conservative profile. Soon we will also look much more closely at the composition of the judiciary. Three quarters of Americans say that the judges of the Supreme Court are influenced by their own political opinion. We are going to politicise judges much more than we are now. We should not go that way, precisely because of the separation of powers. My group will therefore vote against Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal. She's doing that for another reason. There's a lot to do with our Constitution. There are things in there you can scratch behind the ears. I mention the right to meaningful leisure activities and the promotion of the international legal order. That's gonna be interesting if we're all gonna test that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u134	The latter is out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u135	You're right about that. These things all become the subject of exegesis. The judges in the Netherlands are not elected. They have no democratic legitimacy. In any case, the review must be political and remain political. Mrs Van Tongeren's proposal is therefore, in a sense, a hollowing out of Parliament. We are going to listen much more to judges who gain much more power. We can already see that exegesis is being carried out on all kinds of articles. Article 8 of the ECHR deals with the right to family life. Who could be against that? However, this is interpreted as the right to family reunification. That's one of the most important flows in mass immigration. The fact that the Netherlands is now largely Islamised is because a judge has interpreted Article 8 of the ECHR in this way. All it says is that there is a right to family life. The result is that demography in the Netherlands changes in a horrific way. Such an explanation has enormous implications for the Netherlands. I agree with the point made by Mr Klein. A selection of fundamental rights is being made. Or you say: the Constitution is divine, it comes directly from the Olympus, so we have to weigh every word on a gold dish. Or you don't. There's no middle ground. I agree with Mr Klein on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u136	Mr Bosma saw that the role of Parliament would be undermined if the courts were given the opportunity to review legislation against the Constitution. In fact, according to him, we are more or less outlawed because the judge is then about laws. Isn't it true that the judge can only rule that the application of a law is unconstitutional? This does not lead to the explicit abolition of that law. Part of that law works in a concrete situation. That gives us as legislator more than enough room to close that small or large gap in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u137	What are you saying? Vote for this law, because it's nothing, is it? Is that what you're saying? That's a weird reasoning, isn't it? I expect you to say: vote for this law, because it brings about a great change. I find it a little strange that you're undermining the importance of the law. However, all the objections I have just aired still stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u138	This is a debate. Mr Bosma has made an argument. He says that Parliament will be completely out of line and that the laws will soon be put out of effect. What I am saying to Mr Bosma is something I have also asked him about, which is not the case. My first plea was that the individual should have the opportunity to go to court, so that he can assess whether there is in a specific case a violation of fundamental rights. If that is the case, it is only about the application of the law in one specific case. That's what this bill is about. I think that's a great improvement. That gives the individual a lot of space and creates a lot of social debate. As a chamber and as a co-legislator, we still have plenty of room, so I ask Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u139	Mr Klaver wants to lecture me a little bit by saying that this is a debate. If this is a debate, Mr Klaver should not use the strawpop method either. The strawpop method is that you first make up arguments and try to put your opponent in the mouth. I did not say that Parliament is being sidelined, Mr Klaver, so do not put that in my mouth. If you are such a professional in the field of debate, you should do the same. I did not say at all that Parliament is being sidelined, but I say that Parliament's power is being restricted because that judge goes in, explains it and takes room. If Mr Klaver is saying that this is hardly happening and that it is hardly anything, why are we sitting here and why are we not looking at Who is the Mol?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u140	Thank you. You had come to the end of your speech. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Fokke, who speaks on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u141	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiator and her predecessor. It has been said several times this evening that it has been more than ten years since the initiative legislative proposal before us today was dealt with at first reading in this Chamber. However, the discussion on the content of this bill has been going on for a much longer period of time, which actually dates back to 1848. For today I reviewed the Handbook of Dutch State Law of Van der Pot and Donner. As early as 1848 when the words "the laws are inviolable" were incorporated into the Constitution, this was discussed. The proposal was not from the state committee, but from the government, and Thorbecke in particular was very critical of it. He believed that for this new spell each would stand as a closed door. Actually, the PvdA shares that opinion. Without constitutional review, the Constitution has no higher law status. Moreover, if citizens cannot rely on the courts if they believe that the law is contrary to the Constitution, the Constitution does not gain any importance. This gives the Constitution a very symbolic value, because it is not directly applicable in daily legal practice. Direct scrutiny is desirable in order to make the Constitution a bearer of the idea of the rule of law. In a rule of law, a citizen has inalienable rights which he should be able to invoke against the State. No, the PvdA is not afraid that the judge will sit on the legislator's chair with this. The constitutional assessment of laws remains the task of the legislator. Judicial review will be additional in the case of a specific case, with the judge checking whether the concrete application is in conformity with the Constitution. There is therefore certainly no competition between the courts and the legislator. In fact, it makes us more aware of our important role in the legislative process. I would like to comment on the opening of the law review to all binding treaty provisions provided for in Article 94 of the Constitution since 1953. The regime set out in Article 94 of the Constitution was and is considered to be an important argument for allowing constitutional review. After all, most of the fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution are similar in, for example, the ECHR and are formulated as a binding provision to which the judge is therefore entitled to review. Another source of law, same result. First of all, I would like to know how the review of the Constitution and the ECHR will relate to each other should the Constitution be reviewed. Is Article 94 of the Constitution going to be an empty shell because review of the Constitution precedes review of provisions in treaties? Secondly, I would like to know what the initiator of the initiative legislative proposal tabled by Mr Taverne on Article 94 of the Constitution thinks. In fact, we are currently seeing the author of this proposal for an initiative on the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u142	Is Mrs Fokke aware that Article 94 has been used in particular as a justification for examining fundamental rights because of the ban on testing? More importantly, however, Mrs Fokke asked the authors whether the Constitution would then be reviewed. However, I say that Article 94 makes it very clear that international law always goes before the Dutch law. That makes the Dutch Constitution unique. Not only do all forms of international law work directly in the Netherlands and are all forms of a higher order than ordinary formal laws, but all these forms also exclude the Dutch Constitution. Isn't that the very reason why our Dutch Constitution is actually an empty shell?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u143	Indeed, perhaps you could say that our Constitution is actually an empty shell because of the way in which we have set things up now. And you could have solved that today, Mr Taverne, on behalf of the VVD. You could have done something very sensible here at second reading today. You could have made sure that just Article 120 would be much more than that empty shell it is at the moment. It's an incredibly big missed opportunity. You saw it at first reading, but not at second reading. At second reading, you will proceed. In fact, you are also opting for some kind of double-crossing, but we are not going to talk about your own initiative proposal today. If we did that, we would be seriously failing Mrs Van Tongeren's own-initiative proposal. You opt for a kind of double-crossing by amending both Article 94 of the Constitution and by opposing the proposed initiative. I find that really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u144	I think there's been a misunderstanding. Then perhaps Mrs Fokke did not read Rule 94 correctly or understood correctly. Article 94 states that even if the prohibition of review was lifted in the Netherlands, review by the Dutch courts on the basis of the Constitution could be overruled by the European Court of Justice just as much. If necessary, a Dutch judge who prefers to test a rule of international law through Article 94 can thus make it meaningless to review the Constitution. That's gonna be an interesting one. In short, this does not contribute to the argument for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u145	I read it all very well. It is always an easy argument if you say something yourself about an empty shell and indeed show yourself why the proposal you are making tonight on Article 120 of the Constitution is actually a bit unfortunate. It is very easy for Mr Taverne to take the measure now about the interpretation of articles. It's okay. It's okay. However, I do not think you are right, Mr Taverne. I believe that, by being against constitutional scrutiny, you are indeed making sure that, unfortunately, our Constitution remains that empty shell and remains unattainable to our citizens. You shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u146	Mrs Fokke continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u147	My confidence in government and parliament is high, but ex post review by national courts is never an unnecessary luxury. If the only review that would remain is to go to the international courts, for example the ECHR, that is an insufficient and, above all, too complex guarantee of fundamental rights. I want Dutch judges to play a role in this and not leave the responsibility for testing our fundamental rights to Strasbourg alone. What does the initiator think about this point? I would like to conclude with a quote from Hirsch Ballin from his 2013 Rule of Law lecture: constitutional dialogues can take place anywhere, in the public debate, in the parliament and in the judiciary. Unlike in many countries around us, the Constitution does not play a significant role in legal proceedings. I suspect, says Hirsch Ballin, that this contributes to disinterest and a feeling that ultimately it does not matter to the Constitution. Surely we should not all want that: disinterested in the Constitution because the door to the Constitution is closed to our citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-05-tweedekamer-11.u148	This brings to an end the first term of office. The follow-up to this discussion will be planned in consultation with the initiator.
