ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State. Mrs Siderius of the SP Group has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna talk real fast, hoping I can stay like this in those two minutes. The Labour Party has blocked the debate on voluntary parental contributions at school. The SP is very disappointed about that. We had produced a fine report with the reactions of nearly 300 parents to voluntary parental contributions in education. I would like to present that report to the Secretary of State today and ask him for a substantive response to the recommendations made in the report. I have three motions. The first one is about maximizing the parental contribution at school. Last time we got support for this from the Labour Party. We are looking forward to seeing how that will go next week, when we vote on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are schools that charge hundreds to sometimes thousands of euros for voluntary parental contributions;]] [[Considers that outliers of the voluntary parental contribution in schools are undesirable, as it stimulates division and segregation in education;]] [[considers that there should be no financial threshold for parents to report to the school of preference;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the educational field, to maximise the voluntary parental contribution and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the 2016 budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a limited number of schools in the Netherlands consider that they should send letters of formal notice or employ bailiffs to parents who cannot or cannot pay the voluntary parental contribution;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that schools wrongly working on letters of formal notice, payment reminders and the use of bailiffs are tracked and fined by informing the Education Inspectorate and the Chamber about this before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes it is undesirable that schools try to make parents pay separately for school trips, school camp or excursions by including all kinds of word games in the school guide;]] [[calls on the Government to require schools in fundative education to provide a clear picture of the total amount of the parental contribution in the school guide and to include a breakdown of the various cost items,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-248]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-249]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31293-250]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	I've got ten seconds now. The report, so the State Secretary's answers, says something about a school in Voorschoten. The Secretary of State states that if he knows what school he's talking about, he's gonna send in the education inspector. We will hand over the name of this school to the Ministry, so that we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	We'll wait until all motions are handed over to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mrs Siderius for her input and for the information she will provide on the school. The inspection can't do anything and find out what's really going on until we know which school this is about. I'll pass it on. I would also like to thank her for the report by the Socialist Party. I have already browsed it because it was already available on the Socialist Party's website. My impression is that, with the answer to the written questions, we have already addressed all the aspects that have been covered in this report. I think that's the end of the reaction to the report. There can be no misunderstanding that the parental contribution is voluntary. Education in the Netherlands is free of charge and there is good basic funding. Schools should be able to go out with that. At the same time, no parents stand in the way of looking together with schools to see if they can do some extras, in the form of their own contribution. The vast majority of parents are satisfied with the scheme. Schools are also satisfied with it. That's a reason for me not to change those rules now. For example, if schools do not comply with the rules, they are unclear about whether the contribution is voluntary or they do not incorporate this properly in the school guide. It's possible. I have already indicated that I will continue to monitor this closely in the coming years and will continue to pay attention to it in the school cost monitor. Then I come to the three motions tabled by Mrs Siderius. In the motion in part No. 248 is asked to maximise the voluntary parental contribution. I advise against this motion. This is a voluntary contribution and it seems to me unwise to restrict parents from The Hague. This is a conversation that must take place at the school, where parents also have the right to consent through the participation council. If schools stick to that and it is clear that this is a voluntary parental contribution, then I do not see why we should reduce it further. The motion in part No. 249, I advise. There's something very unnecessary in it. If schools say against the rules to parents that they have to pay this contribution, then the inspection must get on with it. There is a point there, Mrs Siderius. I have just indicated that the inspection will do the same. However, this motion also states that fines must be paid immediately. That's not the way the inspection works. It is usually the case that the inspection points out this to the school. In 99 out of 100 cases a school also adapts neatly and complies with the rules. Then we're not gonna throw fines right away. Then I come to the motion on part No. 250.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	First of all, it is a little disappointing that the Secretary of State says that he does not have to respond to this report because he has already done so. It seems that this Parliament does not want to talk about the voluntary parental contribution and the Secretary of State does not even want to respond to the examples of nearly 300 parents from the country who have also been put under pressure. My question concerns that last point. The Secretary of State says: if that happens, a parent can report it; the education inspector will look at it, but it's all going a little too far to fine those schools. The point is, of course, that it is not at all possible for parents to be put under pressure because of this voluntary parental contribution. That's where it goes wrong. The Secretary of State must really tackle this problem at the root and say that this simply cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	So give a warning. Make sure that schools that take even one step outside the law are addressed and feel so, otherwise schools will continue to do so. I still get almost weekly emails from parents with reminders and payment reminders. It's really not okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mrs Siderius and I agree that this cannot be done. Voluntary is voluntary; there can be no misunderstanding about that. In the cases where this is happening, I say not only send an e-mail to Mrs Siderius, but also report it to the inspection so that it can go. In this motion, Mrs Siderius asks for penalties to be applied immediately, but that is not the way the inspection works. A funding sanction is a last resort that can be used if a school does not accept an indication of the inspection. My experience is that the vast majority of schools, if not all schools, are also committed and are going to abide by the rules as soon as they receive a comment from the inspection on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	Finally, Mrs Siderius.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	We have agreed in this country that someone will be fined if he breaks the law. This happens, for example, with beneficiaries who turn in their work slip one day late and with criminals who we try to fine as much as possible. But if schools put pressure on parents and block access to education for certain pupils, then this secretary of state says: no matter; we are going to talk again and again. Such a school can then just go on and muddy. That's not supposed to happen, is it? The Secretary of State must therefore take enforcement action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mrs Siderius takes my words completely out of context. After all, everything is aimed at recovery and, yes, also at enforcement, at ensuring that schools that do not do so still comply with the rules that we know. As far as I am concerned, these rules are clear; there can be no misunderstanding about that: voluntary is voluntary. The only point I make is that this motion calls on the government to pay the penalty immediately. That's not the way the inspection works. She makes a strong point to these schools and also says: you have to change, otherwise there will be a fine. However, it is not the first instrument or means to be used. Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 250. It is of the utmost importance that schools are transparent in their communication about the voluntary parental contribution and other costs involved in education. Schools decide how to indicate this, for example, in the school guide and on their website. I am not going to propose any further regulation to split that up in detail. It should simply be clear in the school guide that there is a contribution, that it is voluntary and that it is also intended for activities or services that come on top of regular education. That's how the law works. I think that is enough, and that is why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u13	The Secretary of State is a bit like the Secretary of State for Dapping and Wetkeeping, and that is the case again. After all, he writes to the Chamber that it is advisable for schools to indicate and divide that in the school guide. He's talking about "consultative." That's nice advice, but if schools don't stick to it, then nothing happens. Why doesn't this Secretary of State want to take the trouble to say to schools: you're going to take it seriously and clearly and if you don't, we're really going to talk about it? Parents no longer see the forest because of the trees; they get bills for school camps, school excursions, cultural trips etc. That can't be the intention of the voluntary parental contribution, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs Siderius now mentions all kinds of things that often involve activities that a school can only organise with a small extra contribution from parents. A school camp is fun, but is not necessary for good education. That is precisely why some schools say, in close consultation with parents and also with parents in the council, that if we get a small contribution from parents, we can organise this kind of thing. That goes to the full satisfaction of the vast majority of parents. Parents themselves are often willing to do this and also see it as a small investment to give something extra for their children. I see that the vast majority of schools deal with this very reasonably and have all kinds of facilities to arrange something for parents who cannot afford it. There is often a great deal of solidarity among parents, in the sense that they say: we have it a little wider, we also understand that some children come from families with a slightly smaller income, and that is why we do not mind wearing it all together. I do not think that the Hague should then banish it and close it with all kinds of laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u15	A small contribution; I would point out that 30% of schools simply require more than €100. There are even schools that charge more than €1,000. So that's not a small contribution. The problem is that it is very diffuse for parents because some schools in different places in their school guide use all kinds of word games to name all kinds of amounts and also have different terms on them, so that the total amount is unclear. The only thing this motion calls for is for schools to break down the cost by cost, so that it becomes easy for parents to see what they have to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-4.u17	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
