ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u1	We have arrived at the answer in the first term from the cabinet. I therefore welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I imagine that I will first classify the answer so that you and Members know in what order I will discuss the issues. First of all, I will briefly comment on the place of this bill in the wider range of laws relating to openness and openness of administration. Next, I would like to say something about the seriousness, the extent and the extent to which we are talking about the cost of the abuse that we are talking about today. I shall then turn to an earlier motion in which I was called upon to come up with this bill, as well as the explanation of that motion, the reason for coming up with this proposal and the results of the consultation phase, of which I would like to raise a single point. I would then like to discuss two amendments: an amendment by Mrs Keijzer of the CDA and an amendment by Mrs Fokke of the Labour Party. Then I will answer a few separate questions, including Mr Veldman's question on digital dementia. Finally, I would like to address the point where there is also a procedural nature, namely how this law relates to the proposal for an open government initiative by Mrs Voortman and Mr Schouw. Let me say in advance that there is a somewhat complex connection between the two proposals and that I can therefore imagine that the procedure will be postponed after my first term so that the Chamber can decide what it thinks is the best procedure for dealing with both legislative proposals. That's how I wanted to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u3	That is a strong intention, in many areas. Let's get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u4	Let's do that. First of all, I would like to comment on the seriousness of this issue, which was discussed in detail more than a year ago. There are also extensive documented cases, for example, because they have been dealt with in court. To bring the matter back to memory, I would like to mention a few of them. For example, there was the example of the municipality of Gilze and Rijen. There came a WOB request: all the documents of the sound policy of the last 40 years and also the resumes, the curricula vitae, of the officials who have worked on them. I would also like to mention a request for all the licences refused in the period since 1988. It was added that it might well be possible for that request to be paid off, so it was already said that a penalty payment would also be satisfied. Other practices include: the sowing of confusion, for example through six separate WOB requests following a traffic fine, each packed in a different way, the hiding of a WOB request in an open application letter or a marketing offer and the submission of virtually identical WOB requests shortly after each other, for example by fax. Mr Bosma pointed out that this is a little-used means of communication. That's true, but it's still there. Just when you want to conceal your intentions, you send two faxes in the middle of the night that are identical in the eye but in which something is asked about different periods, with the official thinking the next morning that he has taken the request into consideration and that he then misses a request. What also often happens is that at the press of a button an identical request is made to all 400 municipalities. Then the numbers are increasing rapidly. That is why the College of Attorneys has already said that this abuse is a problem and that there is excessive growth. For example, in the case of central processing by the D.A., the number of requests had increased from 8,000 to 30,000 and with the police from 17,000 to 40,000. Recent figures from the VNG also show that last year 70 of these collective WOB requests went to all municipalities. This year, that counter's at 30 again. It is understandable, therefore, that the National Ombudsman appointed by the Chamber of the European Parliament and the former Ombudsman, Brenninkmeijer, wrote a letter to me. In that regard, he noted that the CVOM full-time 30 FTEs are dealing with WOB requests which are largely improper and which are intended solely to collect periodic penalty payments. The Ombudsman wrote that these requests are often made in an organised context by intermediaries who deserve a good deal of money from them. So he asked for legislation. I say that to indicate the seriousness of the situation. I believe that this awareness is widely shared and not disputed, but I think it would be a good idea to recall it. In the first period, the cost of this was discussed for a long time. I can try to shed some light on that. It has been mapped out by the SEO that there is likely to be an estimated gross annual cost of around 8 to 14 million in the treatment of WOB requests suspected of being aimed at abuse. That is, of course, a different number than the number of periodic penalty payments. That amount is considerably lower. But this is also the amount relating to the activities of officials who are trying to prevent the payment of these periodic penalty payments. I agree with anyone who says that such an estimate is pretty rough. I gave a few examples. These seem obvious to me: they must be aimed at abuse. But of course you don't know. Very exotic requests can come in, the intention of which is unclear. You can never know for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Secretary, we have a public gallery here. The people sitting there don't all know what the CO is. Can you explain the abbreviations to me from now on? I am told that CO is the Central Economic Research Institute. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u6	No, I'm talking about the CVOM. That's the Central Processing of the D.A., the D.A.'s office. I think I have said it in full once, but I will do it all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u7	That doesn't have to happen every time, but let's try to make sure that we don't speak in abbreviations and that makes it difficult for people from outside to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u8	I cannot agree more with you, Mr President. My core competence is to guess abbreviations; I do that all day long, and I can't do that all the time. So I'm always in favour of saying it in full. But this is the seriousness of the issue we are discussing. The starting point is the Public Administration Act. To put this in context, there is of course much more to "open government" than just happening with the Public Administration Act. In a way, you could say that the Public Administration Act is the "old-fashioned" publicity: there is a piece in a closet at the government and someone wants to have access to it and asks for it. That's what the WOB's gonna do. What we would like to see in the longer term, or preferably as soon as possible, is that the information is intrinsically public. The government can then, from the moment of collection, take into account that the information does not disappear in a closet, but is stored in the cloud or the internet, on which all information is publicly provided. However, all this still relates to the classic Act on Public Administration. That law has three pillars. The first pillar is that citizens have the right to information, unless there is a legal reason not to provide the information. The starting point is "public, unless." Secondly, such a request can be made in a form-free manner. You can call, fax, text, send an e-mail, send a letter. Every form is equally receptive. Thirdly, there is no requirement of importance. Contrary to some other procedures, citizens do not need to demonstrate their interest in the information. For this reason, the boundary between abuse and use is sometimes difficult to establish. People can make rather unexpected requests and they must also be taken seriously into account. From that initial situation, I was asked not only by the Ombudsman, but also by the Chamber of Appeal to do something about this. The motion was also discussed in the first term. I would like to add something to that. What has been said is undoubtedly true, but it was not entirely complete. The motion is almost universally supported. Of the current parties, it was not supported by the PVV alone at the time. The Court ruled in the motion that the penalty payment makes an effective contribution to the timely decision by administrative bodies. I agree with that and that is also apparent from the monitor that was carried out on it. However, the motion goes on: the penalty payment applied to the Public Administration Act has resulted in improper use. There are three directions in the motion for a resolution. These are the following: limiting the penalty payment system to laws, in which the applicant suffers demonstrable damage, excluding the laws of the penalty payment scheme and extending the fictitious refusal. In the motion I am asked to come forward with a bill to fix that at least before March 2014. That is two months later than I have submitted the proposal. It is therefore in line with the wishes that have been put to me by the Chamber. Furthermore, the motion does not indicate a different direction of solution than the proposal now before us. This is underlined by the fact that exactly what I propose in this legislative proposal, two weeks later, was also included by Mrs Voortman and Mr Schouw in the initiative proposal Open Government Act in the same way. Of course you can think about other solutions, but I do feel entitled to say that the solution of the cabinet is the solution that the Chamber has requested and that it also responds to the direction that the Chamber has requested in a broadly supported motion. The cabinet's proposal has been in consultation and perhaps it would be a good idea to clarify a few comments there. The College of Attorneys-General claims to have taken note of the bill with very great approval. Members will remember that this is one of the lectures to which the cat has been ringing the bell on this subject. The National Police also says that they support it wholeheartedly and is also free to add that it is impossible to wait for the problem to be resolved. In a note addressed to me, I am also being suggested not to wait for the initiative legislative proposal of GroenLinks and D66. In the end, of course, it is not up to me but to the Chamber, but nevertheless: the police have a lot to do with this kind of thing. Another reaction has been received, namely from the Dutch Association of Journalists. The union says, "You shouldn't do it." I would point out, however, that a penalty payment is of course no use to professional journalists. If they don't get the information they want, they'll go straight to court. They know how to find their way to court, and that's good, because what does the NRC's main editorial work have for €1,260? The importance of this association is therefore perhaps somewhat smaller. In any case, this is the basis for my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u9	One of the objections I raised in the first term is that it is such a generic general rule, whereas we want to prevent abuse by individuals. Has the Minister considered an arrangement whereby, for example, the penalty payment is not granted to a person if it is clear that abuse is taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u10	It could be. I know that my predecessor Donner has already thought at an earlier stage about including an anti-abuse clause in the law. That makes it very complicated, because you have to test what is or is not abuse. I have admitted to Mr Van Raak that you can say about certain examples: it is an exotic request. Moreover, the judge has also mentioned a few examples of obvious abuse of an application. In this way it can be found, but it is not an administrative act to establish it. That road does not seem obvious to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u11	The Minister announced that he would rethink and consult with the initiators of the Initiative Act. Can he take this opportunity to individualize it more and focus it more on the abuser in his research?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u12	I didn't announce a new investigation. I would like to say a few words about the procedural handling of the proposal before us, also in connection with the first term of the Chamber. Maybe we can come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u13	I have now heard two or three "procedures" come along. Is it an idea to deal with this procedural proposal first? I see people shaking no. So that's not wise. Proceed quickly, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u14	We must first discuss a number of substantive points that have been raised in the first period, including Mrs Keijzer's alternative proposal. To be honest, I think it is in itself a sympathetic proposal from Mrs Keijzer to make it compulsory for WOB requests to be submitted on a fixed form. I gave the example of a WOB request that is hidden in a letter of application or another document. You can prevent that in that way, because WOB requests are only valid if they are submitted on a form. I have a procedural point and two substantive points. The procedural point is as follows. Mr Bosma, Member of the Bureau and therefore always keen on procedures, asked whether this is not a destructive amendment. Now that is an unkind word for a proposal that I have just said I like, but it is an amendment that actually removes the essence of the bill: the penalty payment law will no longer apply to the WOB, and as an alternative, the form-free nature of a WOB request is replaced by a prescribed form. The problem I have with this, without wishing to launch the word destructive, is that the present proposal has been extensively consulted. I quoted that. I am not going to name them all, but for example the VNG, IPO and the waterboards have said that they will find a good solution. If I had changed that proposal so radically, by something that is a fundamentally different solution, perhaps for the same problem, we might as well not have done the consultation phase. I therefore have a certain hesitation in making such a radical change to the proposal. In addition, I have two substantive hesitations. This solution does indeed prevent disguised WOB requests. After all, a WOB request will not be dealt with until it has been submitted on the correct form. I mentioned the example from Gilze-Rijen, in which someone says openly: I want to know the age of all officials who have ever worked in the municipality, but you can also pay the penalty payment immediately. If someone is rude enough to say that, they also say: and the form is there, by the way. You can't stop all of that from happening. Another objection I think is that it is really a fundamental deviation from the WOB when that form-free character comes out. You have to ask yourself whether you want to, because the intention of the legislator has been that a WOB request is low-threshold. If Mr. Jansen sends a note, that is also a valid WOB request, even if it did not happen to the standard form. In itself, therefore, I find the idea of making a form available to me to be a sympathetic idea. I would also like to discuss with the VNG and IPO whether this can not happen, but to say that it will be a condition for a valid WOB request, I have reservations about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u15	The bill now before us is to release a broad antibiotic therapy on a pimple. That's one way to look at it, because what's going on here? They're taking advantage. Not so much, according to the answers given by the Minister to the Chamber. One case up to a few cases per ministry per year, and 6% of the municipalities are involved. So it is not such a big problem in itself. It has two causes. One: people hide their requests in a pile of paper. That's what that form is for. You're gonna fix that. Two: these are the ladies and gentlemen from Gilze and Rijen, I say, although I do wrong to all the inhabitants of Gilze and Rijen, but that example is mentioned here, which abuse a right. Because that's how it's qualified in a situation that's been submitted to a judge. That too can be solved. Stand this up. The total release of that penalty means for people who are in good faith, but are opposed to a government that does not want them to lose an instrument. Why not make a little more sense of the citizens who are fighting against a government that actually doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u16	I have raised both procedural objections and two substantive objections. I do not hear an answer to the procedural objection. This bill has been extensively consulted, and everyone has looked into it. To be honest, I think it would be difficult for the Chamber to say: we are going to solve it in another way, on which we have never asked anyone's opinion. I don't know if the Chamber should want that, but I don't want to advise it. The other is that this does not prevent any abuse. I have just discussed the extent of the abuse in detail on my first point. It's not just a few cases. I have also explained this with the numbers I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mrs Keijzer, it may be a little bit more concise than just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u18	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it may be a little bit more concise than just now. Yet it remains that you are actually frustrating the benevolent citizen. The only instrument he's got in his hands is to knock him out of his hands. I must say that when the CDA Group asked how often it happened, the figures I mentioned were mentioned in the note on the report. What has happened since then, which apparently means that there are a lot more situations now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u19	I have just spoken about the size before Mrs Keijzer was present in the Chamber. I pointed out that a year ago it was almost Chamberwide as a pressing problem with a serious scale. In any case, I personally find it unacceptable when, on such a scale, there is an open abuse of arrangements which are not intended for that purpose. Whether it is EUR 8 million or EUR 18 million a year, I do not care so much. We, as legislators, must close this as quickly as possible. The penalty payment is not the only instrument of the citizen. There's always the way to the judge. We have heard many talk about this in the first term. By the way, I understand that there is an amendment by Mrs Fokke to introduce the fictional refusal. That would open an extra way, namely to object to the administrative institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u20	These are very complex procedural procedures which are then open. I would like to come back to that abuse. I hear the Minister again saying that there is abuse and that you must prevent it. If that's how we're gonna write laws, a lot of things have to go away. Unfortunately, almost everything is being abused in one way or another: subsidies, supplements and so on. Then you try to find a reasonable approach to the problem, not frustrating the people who are in good faith?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u21	I think it's being trivialized anyway. I also find it difficult to understand this from the CDA, which strongly supported the motion at the time, which considered it extremely urgent and said that before 1 March 2014 the Chamber had to be informed of a law to find a solution to that abuse, which was considered to undermine confidence in the Public Administration Act and its support for the penalty payment regime. That's what I did with this. I can't make it any prettier. The note on the report states that the number of periodic penalty payments actually paid is less than the number of suspected abuses, because that is as large as I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u22	I would like to go back five minutes in time, when the Minister said that he actually thought it was a sympathetic amendment. I think that is commendable in the Minister, because I felt the same way. When Mrs Keijzer brought the amendment to me, I thought: "Damn it, perhaps this is a very interesting solution." I am tasting a little from the Minister's words that although we have not discussed it, it may be an interesting alternative. I have a question for the Minister, also a bit ahead of the procedural thing. Wouldn't it be interesting to explore how, for example, the VNG looks at such a solution with such a form? I will not say that it is Columbus' egg, but the feeling that my group is alive and that I am also tasting with the Minister is that this might help us to overcome some persistent problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u23	Let's not turn this around. As I have said, I think it would be wrong to change the current law in the case of amendment in such a way that the feeling of the UNG or of other stakeholders has not been heard, while we have just had a six-month consultation. That is not a plea for consulting this now, because I see that what we have consulted has come up against massive support from municipalities, police, attorney general and other stakeholders. I think it is a nice idea to help citizens by giving them a form as a suggestion. The WOB has been form-free for many years. You can also ask for information with a phone call and then you are entitled to that information. Because of the openness I am not in favour of saying now: that must be on the pink form; you have filled out the wrong form, so we did not go to work for you. I wouldn't be for that. I am therefore quite prepared to consider whether it is possible to provide a form for those who need it. However, I am not in favour of saying that if you did not submit the request on this form, it is not a valid WOB request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u24	We just adopted a motion. He went to another State Secretary, but was called upon to act under state law. The minister even sat there and had a bit of ginnegap for that too. I now call on the Minister to act in this way. The submission of amendments is simply the right of this Chamber. Amendments may be tabled at any time. There shall be no requirement for participation or limitation. I therefore believe that the Chamber has simply acted quite lawfully in this amendment by Mrs Keijzer. The Minister will have to give us some hoo-hoo or hoo-hoo. Either he accepts the amendment, or he says: it's still at odds with my bill. Then it's a destructive amendment. However, I do not hear the Minister say that. Then I do not think he should use the procedural argument either. If he does so, he will have the right of the Chamber to amend legislative proposals by members of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u25	I was not trying to use unnecessarily big words, but I was, in my opinion, very clear to the good hearer. This proposal fully takes up what is proposed in the legislative proposal that has been submitted for consultation. It comes with a fundamentally different solution. I said that I like the suggestion of helping the citizens who need it with a form. I do, however, think that it would not be wise to do this now by amendment. I also think that the terminology used by the Member of the Bureau for this purpose, which would be strictly destructive, ultimately represents a legally correct summary of my opinion on such an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u26	In order to avoid any misunderstanding, I say the following. We are talking about a 'destructive amendment'. That's cut-up word. Under Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, the term 'unacceptable' is used only. Article 91.1 states: "An amendment is inadmissible if it is intended to be contrary to that of the legislative proposal, or if there is no direct link between the subject matter of the amendment and that of the proposal." In the end, the Court will only assess whether an amendment is considered admissible. All this is reflected in Rules 97 (1) and 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u27	Well, Mr. Chairman, thank you for that. This will clear up. In my view, it is now up to the political groups to decide whether the amendment is inadmissible or not. My group considers this amendment to be extremely admissible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u28	I think it's admissible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u29	The argument is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u30	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u31	Judgement is up to the Chamber, as always.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u32	I have a very different question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u33	Is he even at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u34	Yes, because it was just about abuse of law that would actually be very easily adopted by a judge. Does the Minister agree with me, however, that this is precisely the problem? Misuse of law is rarely accepted by a judge. Isn't it also true that in Dordrecht they actually sat with their hands in their hair and went to court for the umpteenth time? Isn't it true that the judge then, "in the end" and eventually once said that this was really furious? Does the Minister therefore agree with me when I say that abuse of law is simply not adopted very quickly in administrative law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u35	That's the case. I agree with Mrs. Fokke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u36	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u37	There is a second amendment by Mrs Fokke. That's about introducing the fictional refusal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u38	I should like to interrupt you, because Mrs Keijzer wishes to comment on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u39	This was too much the character of a one-two, Mr. Chairman. You have to agree with me, don't you? I would like to explain the recital in the statement we are talking about here, which shows that it is not applicable in other situations. If the Minister cannot give that explanation now, he may be able to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u40	Mrs Keijzer spoke to me, so I will answer her as well. One-two are allowed in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u41	I did not leave it at the conclusion, Mr President. I then made a request to the Minister, through you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u42	That's what the Minister's comment is now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u43	Yes, it is, because of course it is difficult to establish. I have also mentioned the example: if someone says that he wants to have the CVs of all the officials who have been working on noise since 1988, then it may be that someone is working on a thesis to make an extremely interesting discovery on this very point. But, when that same person makes that kind of request more often or makes it in different places, and then collects periodic penalty payments, there comes a moment when you start to think: if it smells like a duck and flies like a duck, maybe it is a duck. So perhaps this is an abuse. However, the judge will not conclude that quickly; that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u44	It seems to me that there is a ground for refusal on the basis of the Public Administration Act. Since it has just been so clearly resolved, I have asked to comment on the recitals in the relevant ruling. Otherwise, it's too easy for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u45	For that I refer to the ruling in the Dordrecht case. We're not gonna chew it here. I don't think that's a reasonable request. I have mentioned a number of cases where the judge has found abuse. I have added that the SEO investigation shows that there are many more cases where you can reasonably assume that there may be abuse. However, this cannot be established in advance with mathematical certainty. That is precisely why my honourable predecessor, Mr Donner, has chosen not to include an anti-abuse clause. This is difficult for an administrative body to establish. That's the reason for choosing the other way. In this totally open and very low-threshold regulation of the WOB, which also establishes no interest until the application is declared admissible, you should therefore not apply the Penalty Law, which in itself in many cases has a useful effect, because you see what abuse that leads to. There are other ways to ensure that citizens can find their way to justice. I will continue my speech. Mr Veldman asked a question about digital dementia. This means that there can sometimes be no request for public access because the information is not available. That is a very serious point. Let me say first of all that you can't determine with hammers that the information system will be in order from now on. That's a long-term issue. We must have that long time, because it is serious when things are not in order. I can add two new elements to the written reply. Pilots will be run by municipalities to test the e-depot facility. On 26 June, a covenant will also be signed by the suppliers on the Application Profile Metadating Local Authorities. The King is also involved in this. This will improve the recovery of information. I am sure that improving the provision of information has my attention. The WOB has a decision period of four weeks and then a period of four weeks. Mrs Fokke asked me what I thought of the suggestion to bring that last deadline back to two weeks, because the Chamber recently did something like this in the Re-use of Public Sector Information Act. I would point out the difference between the Public Administration Act and the Re-use Act. The latter law concerns information that has previously been publicly available and which is once again being asked for, perhaps in a different way. The WOB concerns information that needs to be processed in detail in order to determine whether any of the legal grounds for refusal apply to it. It is therefore my preference to keep the four-week anniversary period, because otherwise it may also be too tight to carry it out exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u46	Returning to an earlier discussion: I usually understand that a duck is a duck and a chicken is a chicken. When the Penalty Act was introduced, we chose those terms. The deadline for this was not reasonable either. Is it not now reasonable to do something about this default period? After all, four plus four is very spacious. Let's not link it to this law, but to the fact that it makes sense for you to do something in return if you turn anything back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u47	According to my information, it happened simultaneously at the time but not necessarily causally in the sense of: with the penalty payment, that period can last longer. I think that was also done because that period was really perceived as too short in administrative practice. It would therefore require a new recital from the Court to shorten that period. However, my impression is that I have to base myself on what local authorities do with it, that one sometimes needs those four weeks to really walk through that information. So that would be my preference. You can always say: you can work on the weekends. Under pressure everything becomes liquid, but that is my position on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u48	Again, I'm fine with those four weeks. Those four weeks are indeed needed occasionally. That is why it has been said that the term used before is perhaps very short. But after that, in that recovery period, there really should be a bit of hard work. I find the difference between eight and six... then I think: boys, let's put a little pressure on the kettle if nothing has happened after four weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u49	In practice, I think Mrs Fokke has more experience with such requests than I do as a lawyer. So I can't just put aside what she's saying. My perception is that sometimes the recovery period of four weeks is needed. But I told you, under pressure, everything becomes liquid. Anyway, there's no proposal now either. This was an answer to the question that was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u50	Mrs Fokke pointed out just a moment ago that, when the Penalty Law was introduced, the deadline was correctly extended from two to four weeks. Then if you want to let go of that clutch again, it makes sense that you go back to two weeks, that you say: before one hears the other. I do not belong to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u51	That's the same question, so I'll answer the same question. According to my information, it happened simultaneously but not necessarily causally. Indeed, it was established at that time that the two-week period was too short and that it would be better to make it a little longer. That happened at the same time as the Penalty Act was declared applicable. According to my information I was not personally involved in any of these cases were not necessarily fully causally related. My suggestion would therefore be simply to look at the substance of whether it is thought that the four-week recovery period could be shorter, which is not my impression at the moment, or whether it is said with Mrs Fokke that something can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u52	I wasn't there either, but this is as I understood it. As far as the deadline is concerned, I would like to say the following. I can imagine that even if you extend the deadline even further, the people who have to do the work will say: that is still too short for us. We all know that everyone is always very busy and that with deadlines you often work towards the border. I think you should take that consideration too. A short term really must be possible. I can agree with what Mrs Fokke said in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u53	Okay. It's been noted. I've already responded to that. There are two questions left. To Mr Veldman's question whether I am prepared to talk to the IPO and the VNG about developing a form for the submission of WOB requests, I have actually already replied. I'd be happy to do that. It should not affect the low-threshold of access to the WOB. However, if it can be a tool to make it even easier for people to make such a request and to help the administration to process that request effectively, I am in favour of it. Then there was the question: if someone is not satisfied with what he received on his WOB application and goes to court, what does that mean for the costs of the Registry? This was a question from Mr Schouw. There are rates for natural persons and a rate, a slightly higher rate, for non-natural persons, i.e. for legal persons. Those costs must indeed be paid in advance. This also applies, however, to disputes relating to social benefits, to study funding and to rent payments. In the end, this is also a matter of justice. I am not free to say that I attach such importance to the openness of administration that I would like to change the system on this point. One can then, of course, get it back. However, it will have to be paid in advance. It's no different. Nor do I have the opportunity to change that, no matter how sympathetic I think it is. Finally, on the one hand, I would like to bring together the present proposal, namely that the penalty payment should not apply to the Public Administration Act, and, on the other hand, Mrs Voortman's and Mr Schouw's own initiative proposal now before the Chamber, which includes exactly the same proposal. You might not think it sometimes, but this proposal is also included in Mrs Voortman's and Mr Schouw's own-initiative proposals. Mr Schouw has already asked: is it not a little elegant to take out such an element and deal with it separately? At least it can't be a surprise. A year ago, on 4 July 2014, I already said something about it. I was strongly urged to do so, also by means of a chamber motion on this matter. I provided, and still foresee, that the extensive conversion of the Public Administration Act to the Open Government Act would not be a hammerpiece here and in the First Chamber, and that this would involve extensive consultation and treatment. I think we share the desire to stop the abuse as soon as possible, which is why I submitted this bill to the Chamber. I heard in the first term of the Chamber that a number of Members asked whether we could not very quickly deal with and adopt the Open Government Act. I find it difficult to determine how realistic that is, because treatment is one thing, but establishing is a second. That is ultimately up to the Chamber. My only goal is to make sure we stop the abuse as soon as possible. Because that's damaging. It costs money and puts people to work for nothing. I also find it unacceptable that we should allow this to continue as a government, while we have been constantly warned by people from the field, the police and the municipalities. So I think we should speed up quickly. If the Chamber can organise the same course in a different way with the same result, it is up to the Chamber. I could imagine that the Chamber would look at what it prefers at some point. This law is ready. He has been in consultation and we have heard from the political groups. So we'll be able to determine it in a minute. So we can continue with that, also heard the discussion of the alternatives. But the Chamber can also say that we might as well include it as it is already included in that big Act open government and then it will be okay in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u54	If the Chamber manages to organize that certainty with each other, then the same effect has been achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u55	I understand that the Minister on the one hand is not very happy, and I understand that very well, and on the other hand from a bit of courtesy, and I appreciate that from the government leave room for the Chamber to choose to suspend the second term and see if we can proceed very quickly with the wider Woo. The Minister knows from informal contacts that we are working on this. Then, in a formal sense, I propose to the Chamber to suspend the treatment of this law. With this I also place an effort obligation on the initiators of the Woo to make speed with that Woo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u56	I understand you're making a formal order proposal. I would ask Members to give their opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u57	If I listen to both the minister and the initiators, that seems to me to be a passable and good way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u58	I also heard the Minister say something about the Woo in an earlier part of his term. He asked the question how to prevent pieces from being placed in the closet and removed with a WOB request. The Woo will take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u59	I'd like to explain those abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u60	The WOB is the Public Administration Act and the Woo is the Open Government Act, an initiative proposal of colleagues Schouw and Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u61	We have a public gallery and it should be able to follow us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u62	Yes, but I think the people in the public gallery are very intelligent and these abbreviations have been explained a number of times. I think they have them on the retina at some point. However, in order to ensure that documents do not appear in a closet, but are visible to people, I think that Mr Schouw's proposal to suspend the debate is a good proposal, also in view of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u63	I thought there was so much abuse that it had to be dealt with very quickly. The Minister's proposal that is not a proposal, but is introduced as such, is somewhat contradictory. But it's okay with me. More for courteous reasons than for content, if this is what most of my colleagues think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u64	Well, I haven't counted yet. In any case, you will not oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u65	Last week I saw almost a kind of law race: what law first and why that law did and this law didn't? It seems rather unhealthy to me if there were a stalemate in the Chamber and it was no longer a matter of substance, but of which legislative proposal was put to the vote first. I think this is a very good compromise by Mr Schouw. I think he also talked to himself when he was talking about the initiators. As far as I am concerned, there is a certain amount of pressure on the kettle. I'd like the Woo to be treated before the summer recess. That would also be good for Mr Schouw, because he is going to leave us in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u66	I cannot guarantee that as acting President of the Chamber. I can say that those who go over it will undoubtedly do their best, but I cannot give guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u67	I particularly agree with the Minister that we need to tackle the abuse as quickly as possible. That's why I was happy with this bill. I note that the Open Government Act contains the same element, namely that the penalty payment is removed. However, in the first period, I have also noted that the two proposers of the initiative proposal have called for the penalty payment to be removed. It doesn't make any sense if I first get a letter of amendment in the further treatment of the Open Government Act which shows that the penalty payment is off. Then I would prefer that we continue the discussion of this bill. The question is, what happens then? In any case, my goal is to deal with the abuse as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u68	I have not heard an answer to the question of what you think of Mr Schouw's procedural proposal. I need that answer anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u69	Perhaps both proposers will be able to express their views on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u70	About your condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u71	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mrs. Voortman, are you prepared to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u73	That is a difficult point, because we are talking to many different parties, including the Labour Party. We're trying to get a majority. I would very much like to bring the proposal to the Chamber, which can count on a majority. If we get a majority together, I think we can do it very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u74	Mr Veldman, can you determine your position now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u75	Let me see if I understood Mrs. Voortman correctly. If I can see from her words that it is open and that the penalty payment, which is in the Open Government Act, simply remains in it, if that can be the intention and therefore the intention of the first term of the examination of this bill is released, I can agree to the procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u76	We go for the best solution and everything is negotiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-11.u77	That is probably no reason for Mr Veldman to accept the order proposal. I'll check on the case. I note that a majority of the Chamber is in favour of suspending this debate now, so I shall do so.
