ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service. He's going to answer the questions that were asked yesterday. I do not want to agree in advance to limit the number of interruptions. I'd like to meet you and I to do the interruptions in half. If I get the feeling that there is a lot of interference, a restriction must be agreed. I'd rather not do that. Perhaps the spokesmen can come a long way through self-regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The main focus of the contributions of all parties yesterday was on the housing of status holders. Given what is happening in the world and in our society, for many people right outside the door, that is quite understandable. Mr Bishop was absolutely right when he said that there is also a lot of good news about the housing market. I will deal with this later in my speech, but Mr Bishop will also agree with me that it is logical that I should start with the subject of'status holders' and that I should indicate the line of the cabinet. However, I will certainly also address the questions. Faced with the large, actually global development of the flow of refugees, the cabinet has put in place a number of measures. Today we understandably discuss the housing part, but that is part of the cabinet package. This package is aimed at limiting the influx through the deployment process, including at European level, on reception in the region and on the distribution of the influx into Europe between different countries, so that not only countries with a well-run economy and an enlarged welfare state are given housing on their shoulders. This concerns the first reception, carried out by the COA under the responsibility of Mr Dijkhoff. I think it is appropriate to express my deep appreciation at this time for the COA staff, who are literally working very hard day and night to find accommodation in difficult circumstances. However, I also understand people who, when things happen in their neighborhood, say: what happens here, can we handle this and what does this actually mean for my village, my neighborhood or my street? The next step in the process is the question of how people get housing after receiving the COA. That is one of the key issues of today's budget debate. At the same time, there is a huge feeling of sympathy in many people in our society after receiving the COA. It will only happen to you that you have to flee, but on the other hand there is great concern. Ultimately, as responsible directors, as government and as a parliament, we must also look at this question with realism. The measures which the cabinet, local authorities and housing corporations can take • the measures which politics generally can take • run against two important limits in this area: free measures do not exist and houses are not available from stock. Although we would all like it to be faster and for very little money, these are two conditions within which solutions must be found. I will discuss the measures I announced myself last week and the various suggestions from the Chamber, but there is no free money and the production of houses, including temporary ones, will take some time. Mr Koolmees asked me, all the way back to the beginning of the issue, whether the cabinet should not have taken measures before, for example when Secretary of State Teeven pointed out the expected large influx. Mr Koolmees undoubtedly remembers that Mr Teeven was still in charge at the time, but he turned out to have some prophetic gifts, although at the time the influx was somewhat lower than expected. This also reflects the uncertainty surrounding the influx of refugees. This influx is strongly influenced by the situations in the countries of origin and in the host countries and is therefore less predictable. Mr Koolmees will agree with me that you can't expect Dutch society, or any society, to permanently take it out of 20 000 full homes for the moment when there is a crisis somewhere in the world. So you can try to be flexible and make sure that your organizations and your legislation are designed in such a way that you can respond smoothly to such a big event, but you can't create such a large reserve stock. As regards the timely response to developments, I can take Mr Koolmees to a number of measures that we have taken here to facilitate construction and temporary construction. I am thinking, for example, of making it easier for former offices and nursing homes to be rebuilt. That law was passed a year or two ago in the broad sense that the housing market now needs flexibility. And how true has that proved and how well can that be of use to us now when we actually have to rebuild offices? Shortly ago, I had a debate with the Chamber on building regulations, for example on the minimum areas for rooms. That was still a reasonable battle, because part of the Chamber felt that I was making the rooms a little small. Also on an issue such as today's, how do you ensure decent, yet sober and affordable housing? However, it is very important that we have prepared such arrangements in good time so that it can be done. However, the issue is still of considerable importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u3	Sober shelter, the Minister says. But now he's given us a list of beautiful office villas. Millionaires would lick their fingers with that. And we have to create austere reception conditions in that? I don't understand. I have the feeling that the Minister has now come up with a list of hugely beautiful offices that are priceless and still need to be rebuilt. It needs kitchens and bathrooms. That's priceless, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u4	In an earlier debate, the Chamber asked me to make public what state real estate is empty, so that municipalities and housing corporations know which buildings can be used. I did. The state real estate includes the whole package, from palaces, which I don't just have in the offer right now, to prisons and barracks, and everything in between. In the course of history, the Empire has acquired a lot of buildings. On the list mentioned by Mr Madlener, there is indeed an office villa on Square 1813 in The Hague; that is probably what Mr Madlener is referring to. A villa like this has even just been sold. The other one hasn't, so it makes sense that it's on the list, like empty prisons, barracks and office buildings. Such a list only makes sense if it shows which real estate is empty and available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u5	That list was intended as an overview of possible places where asylum seekers are housed. When you arrive with a list of beautiful office villas for which most Dutch people would never have the money, and you say that you are going to place asylum seekers there, that is unacceptable. So I ask the Minister: be specific. How much is all this shelter going to cost in those offices? How much does the conversion of all these offices cost? 'Cause there's no kitchens, there's no bathrooms, nothing. That's all still to be done. It's priceless. While the elderly are being driven out of care homes by cuts in this cabinet, money for asylum seekers is being thrown here as if it were nothing. I find that really unacceptable. That is also part of this debate and I want the Minister to come up with a good answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Madlener is right to point out that every building on that list will have to be renovated first for housing. Whether it is the villa on which Mr Madlener is rather excited, a prison or an office building, it will have to be renovated. If these buildings are used, they will be housing multiple people, multiple families, multiple individuals. Of course, the municipality or the housing corporation that is going to do this will make an investment weighing down. Mrs Voortman specifically asked about that. The Empire will not remodel these properties, because the Empire is not a landlord of homes. It never has been and it never will be. The Empire makes the buildings available for rent or sale, but now points specifically to the buildings available for housing. Some of them are already used by the COA, e.g. some prisons or the COA as an opportunity in view. Mrs Voortman also asked about two buildings in The Hague. The COA is still looking at that and for that reason they are not yet on this list. In addition, there is the possibility to rent them or buy them from the Empire. The party that will rent will then do the renovations that are necessary for this and want to pay back from the rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u7	What parties are expected to rent these premises to make them suitable for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u8	Housing is traditionally done in the Netherlands by housing corporations and private landlords and for both parties these properties are available. In my contacts with municipalities I have sometimes heard that the municipalities buy it and rent it on. Those are traditional parties on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Minister therefore expects municipalities and housing corporations to buy these buildings and make them suitable for the reception of asylum seekers. Now the city of The Hague has indicated that it does not want to do anything about the reception of asylum seekers. The municipality wants to take in more status holders, but do nothing when it comes to asylum seekers. Is the Minister prepared to talk to the city of The Hague and say that the need is so high that all the municipalities must take their responsibility, including the city of The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u10	The message that Mrs Voortman is referring to is about the COA reception. I think it would be a good idea to have that debate with Mr Dijkhoff. The municipality of The Hague has not indicated its unwillingness to accommodate status holders. In the municipality of The Hague there is indeed a lot of real estate and a part attracted the attention of Mr Madlener. This is available for sale or rental and can be converted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Minister has made proposals to the status holders for more space by making available, among other things, buildings of the Empire. However, obstacles are being put in place to act quickly. For example, I mentioned the market test. In many municipalities no market test has yet been developed at all, but it must be carried out if the housing corporations want to transform a state building for status holders. This is not going to help speed up the approach to the problem, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u12	The answer to that is further down in my text, but I shall now give it my word. I think there's some confusion here. There was already a market test in the Housing Act in case a housing corporation wants to develop commercial activities, the so-called non-DAEB activities. That is not so much the issue here. Another article in the Housing Act states that a housing corporation is not allowed to do a rental for others. This has been deliberately put into it, because it is quite attractive for many commercial investors to set up a property and then to conclude a ten or twenty-year rental contract, preferably with a few complicated clauses for after-sales purchase. The commercial landlord thus has a purchase contract for ten or twenty years from a state guaranteed institution. That's a no-brainer for the landlord, but the risk lies with the housing corporation all the time. For this reason, the passage about non-renting has been deliberately incorporated into the Housing Act. One of the points in my consultation with municipalities and housing corporations was that article that can often get in the way of temporary housing of status holders when there are no market players who want to do the rental. That is why I quickly took the measure in last week's letter. Based on the experimental article in the Housing Act, a housing corporation can still do that rental. However, because there are also market players that have offices empty and rent out, and there are also market players that rent out, a short market test of up to two weeks will take place. Therefore, it does not focus on SGEIs, non-DAEBs, the return or the question of who was the land, but only on whether there is a commercial party that wants to make the same offer. If not, the housing corporation can do it. We ensure that the market test is pan-ready and does not take longer than two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u13	In doing so, the Minister states that no problem will arise in any municipality because no market test has yet been developed. Each municipality will therefore be able to use the market test provided by the minister to determine quickly whether the housing corporation can make the rental take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u14	The Ministry will hand over that market test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Madlener, you'd already started this round. I'll give you another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u16	This is a point that needs to be properly discussed. We have had a list of the Minister for Housing with premises where asylum seekers may be housed. Now it turns out that that list is often made up of hugely valuable buildings. They're even monuments sometimes. They're buildings that still have to be completely rebuilt. I've had some experience with that. It is hugely expensive to convert an office building into houses. It's not that easy. My point is that the Minister has absolutely no idea of the costs, while this Minister speaks on behalf of the Cabinet, saying that we are opening the borders and everyone can come to the Netherlands. However, it has no idea how to house these people. There is no housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u17	The construction of buildings is first and foremost made cheaper by the measures I have just mentioned. This is also really recognised by the market. The conversations I have with investors, whether they are housing corporations or commercial parties, show that the payback period of a remodel is about ten years. That is also why we have adapted the law in this area and made it possible to rent for ten years. By someone who buys or rents such a building, they are looking for an investment that they can also earn back in that period. The Empire is not the investor and the Empire does not rent, except in the COA phase in which the Empire is the owner. We're talking about the phase after that. With these possibilities we want to create additions to the housing market. Everyone is right to talk about the pressure that exists in many cities in the market for social housing. In this way it becomes possible to add cheaper and faster than by adding complete single-family homes or apartment blocks, adequate sober living space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u18	The conversion of offices to housing remains extremely expensive. The Minister said that they are specifically intended for the housing of asylum seekers. It is not about housing for Dutch people who have been on a waiting list for years. No, it was about asylum seekers. I think this Minister is speaking on behalf of the cabinet. The same cabinet is responsible for open border policy. So this cabinet has no idea where these people should be housed, because there are no houses. That is why I find the Minister's answer really unacceptable. He comes with nice office villas in which asylum seekers must be housed, and he says: we have made it cheaper. No, it's still priceless. That is why the cabinet must close the borders, because we do not have homes for all those tens of thousands of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u19	The discussion requires a little more precision. This is about status holders. They are people who have been granted a residence permit because they are persecuted or come from a war zone and are allowed to stay here for at least five years. At that time they also need a roof over their head: neat, but sober. We must therefore add as much as possible to these possibilities. I didn't say anything, and I also disagree, that these provisions would be for status holders only. There are also parts of the Netherlands where there is no shortage of rental homes. In places where these additions are needed, the housing market will be tense. There other interested parties will also be able to use a converted office, a converted barracks or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u20	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u21	In view of the great challenge, the cabinet has already published a number of measures. First of all, there is the possibility to have self-care arrangements from the COA in municipalities, so that people can find shelter either with acquaintances or with people who make their home available. There were specific questions about this in the Chamber. As I have just exchanged in the debate with Mrs Schouten, I have also opened up the possibility for housing corporations to manage buildings owned by municipalities. In addition, in the letter I explicitly indicated how to shape housing parts, because Mr Ronnes in particular asked for them. This information was shared with the municipalities this spring, but the reactions in the Chamber and in the country showed me that these possibilities were not sufficiently on the retina. It is possible to share homes, even with more than two people. This is generally very attractive in view of the pressing problem at the moment. With housing parts the housing stock is used more intensively. In addition, the assistance is based on the cost sharing standard. Well, that makes sense, too, because you share the rent of that apartment with superiors. It is therefore possible to share a house with three single people, as the CDA indicates. If the house is suitable for this purpose, one can share them with the four of them. This is ideally one of the options that I put to the attention of municipalities, because it is attractive from several options: less pressure on the housing market, financially attractive and just decent housing. After all, how many Dutch people have started their living career in a room? Many rightly asked how we would ensure that social tensions do not increase too high once housing has been found. Mr Bishop spoke very explicitly about this. The allocation model used by us is linked to the size of the municipalities. Among other things, Mrs Voortman asked if you shouldn't change that. But precisely from the point of view of what a local society can cope with, it makes sense to link this to the size of the municipality. In recent consultations, I have once again raised the question of whether the VNG needs to change the accommodation model. In fact, on the same basis, namely that this is best suited to the capacity of a municipality, that need does not exist with the VNG. However, we are working with VNG and Aedes to see if further steps can be taken. Then you will inevitably come back to the difficult issues that I also started with: it is not free and apartments and construction sites are not available on call just in crappy areas. Although municipalities are already allowed to transfer their tasks to other municipalities, we are considering whether we can make this easier. This is often not so much a question of housing, but of additional costs, assistance and other services. The discussion has not yet ended, but all the measures that my colleagues can take in the short term are now being taken, as the letter of last week shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u22	Doesn't the Minister agree that the allocation system is stalling too much because of the large influx? The allocation system, as we know it, has worked for a long time. But even before the refugees arrived, the average waiting time of the regular waiting list went up to seven years. Now that the influx is so large, does the Minister not agree with us that you should take an emergency measure and therefore ensure that the extra refugee influx is not included in the list of urgent cases? In this way, we can simply make our own systems which we normally always use and which the VNG and Aedes say is a good model work. Otherwise, the system will just get jammed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u23	I assume Mr Ronnes is referring to the Housing Act. Mr Van der Linde and Mr De Vries have also addressed this very specifically. The priority scheme that has been included in the Housing Act for a long time is based on the consideration that if people are in a COA shelter for a long time, the costs will be on the justice budget and thus on all taxpayers. Moreover, it is very difficult to find a job if you are housed in a large-scale care centre, a part of the people find happy work, and this also applies to learning the language. This will be easier if there is accommodation in a municipality. If you take the priority article out of the Housing Act, you'll have to ask yourself what you're doing with filling up the COA facilities and their costs, and how you'll make sure that people can find work that will no longer put them at the expense of the community. In the conversations I make, I don't rule out any options. These questions will therefore have to be put on the table. What do you do with the rising costs and how do you ensure that people can reasonably get to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u24	I understand that, but if you do not ensure that the system that is already stalling will continue to function, the frustration of people who have been on the waiting list for a long time will become so great that the support for asylum policy will completely disappear. We are thinking of an option to limit the influx of refugees through the urgency procedure and to place most of the refugees in an emergency procedure only in temporary accommodation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u25	The sober housing facilities that I outlined in my letter may indeed be temporary homes or container homes, but also converted offices or other buildings. The fact that someone has such accommodation already leads, on the basis of the current Housing Act, to the fact that they no longer have emergency status. After all, housing is involved. So this does not require an amendment of the law. This is one of the reasons why I bring to the attention of Mr Ronnes' idea of sharing as many people as possible, because from that moment on there will be no more urgency status. The further step, i.e. amendment of the Housing Act, has a number of consequences which Mr Ronnes will also recognize. I do not rule out this possibility, but I would like to discuss the consequences well with all the partners involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u26	I am pleased that the Minister has again explained the importance of the urgency status of status holders. My point concerns the distribution and distribution system. As the Minister explains, it is indeed logical on paper to distribute the status holders in proportion to the number of inhabitants. In practice, however, it does not work. After all, especially in the larger cities the waiting lists have been for so long. That is why I asked if the Minister would be prepared to consider whether this could be removed more quickly in any other way. I agree with Mr Ronnes that if people feel that their homes or homes that they have been waiting for for so long are ignored by a status holder coming alongside them, the support for asylum policy can be further undermined. Will the Minister consider whether it is better to make another variant of the distribution system, of course in consultation with the VNG?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u27	This issue was explicitly on the table in my consultation with the UNG, also because the Chamber put that question to me in the debate two weeks ago. The VNG's response was explicit: this doesn't help us. We are therefore considering whether we can make it easier to transfer status holders. Again, we can do that. Such a large municipality faced with a tight housing market may already make an appointment with a municipality elsewhere in the country with a less narrow housing market. So far, these agreements have not come about so badly, not so much because of the housing market as because of the additional pressure on assistance and other facilities. But it's already possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u28	Let me ask you a second question. There are now a lot of municipalities that cannot comply with their legal obligation when it comes to housing status holders. What can the cabinet do about this, apart from, of course, looking at whether the social housing stock can be increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u29	When it comes to filling in the local housing needs, I was just about to get to the PvdA's proposal, the direction is ultimately local, because the scarcity of housing is so very different between the different parts of the Netherlands. That is why we consciously agreed in the Housing Act, which was also widely supported, that the identification of needs and their implementation are the subject of local agreements between municipalities, housing corporations and tenants. This is also laid down in performance agreements. However, it is impossible to tell from The Hague exactly what needs to be done in, for example, Roermond, Amsterdam or Winschoten. The municipalities must have the instruments, but we are not helping them by starting to plan it centrally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u30	Before I go further on the interruption of Mr Ronnes: will the Minister come back to the urgency status in the Housing Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u31	I had a text on the subject with two points, namely that I do not rule out the possibility of amending the Housing Act, so that the relevant questions can be answered properly first and that the use of such a sober housing provision within the current Housing Act already means that there is no more priority status.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u32	I'm trying to get that sharp anyway, because we were really looking for a change in the law. I understand the Minister is going to discuss this point. When will we hear from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u33	It's one of the things that's on the table in my meetings with municipalities and housing corporations. I hope, of course, to make rapid progress on this, but it will soon be in the course of the next month before I have more clarity about it, because it also affects all the other aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u34	We were supposed to do the interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u35	I would like to make a brief comment, Mr President, because yesterday we discussed in detail whether or not I should table a motion on this subject. That's why I'm trying to get it sharp right now. I explain this as a commitment from the Minister to at least consider it very seriously. If he says yes to that, then I don't have to file that motion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u36	I will seriously consider it, and I will also let the Chamber know where that leads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u37	If the VVD now comes back to yesterday's big words, which it apparently does, then I'm going to file that motion. We heard yesterday that a lot of parties here have said that it is a big problem for status holders to take precedence over Dutch people who have been on the waiting list for seven or eight years. There was a big debate yesterday and now the Minister says: I am not going to do that, at least not soon, I might consider it and then I will come back to it. This while every day homes are being extracted that Dutch people are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u38	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u39	I want a clear answer from the Minister: is he going to or not? I want a commitment now. Or the minister says he's going to work now, and then he immediately stops giving priority to housing to status holders. Or he says he's gonna postpone it, and then I come up with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u40	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u41	Then I expect butter with the fish of the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u42	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u43	...the one yesterday with big words here...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u44	The chamber itself is concerned with the filing of motions. I have indicated that I will give serious thought to all the proposals made here and by other stakeholders and that I will discuss them with those who will eventually have to implement them. One of the options mentioned here from different sides is priority rule in the Housing Act. So I'm gonna take a serious look at it. I also take with me the consequences for the first reception in the COA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u45	Does the Minister see that in all those municipalities in the Netherlands where this is taking place, there is a huge discontent, that people are extremely angry, that people no longer accept this? Does the Minister see that and does he also see that what he is saying now is in no way right to what so many Dutch people feel, namely that asylum seekers are given priority over the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u46	I see the great tension in Dutch society. I see the emotions, balancing between compassion with the people that this happens to and the great concerns about what happens on their own streets. The point that Mr Madlener refers to, everything in his own words, I can see, of course. However, the people are here and they are going through a rigorous review procedure. If they do not receive refugee status or protection status, they must leave the country. However, if they do get that status, they must have a roof over their heads. We do it soberly, decently. You're gonna run into the conditions I started. There is no free entry, not even in this area. And we can't just pull houses off the shelf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u47	With the discussion about the status holder, the cut on the housing market is again very topical. However, this problem is not new. It's been there a long time. People are on the waiting list for an average of nine years in Amsterdam. Elsewhere in the country that is on average seven years. Does the Minister agree with me that we would still have a huge cut in the housing market if the status holders' problem were not there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u48	I think it is appropriate that I should first welcome Mr Bashir. It is my pleasure to meet him as a new spokesman on behalf of his party in this beautiful area. I intended to address the wider question about the functioning of the rental market and waiting lists a little later. If Mr Bashir agrees, I will do so later because this affects a number of other aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u49	I agree with that, but I would point out that these matters cannot be seen separately. It's just the fact that there's tightness that causes that tension. If we didn't have that cut, we wouldn't have to divide up that scarcity either. Then there would have been a home for everyone, also for the Dutch who have been waiting for a long time for a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u50	I didn't hear a question and the Minister said he'd come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u51	I am going to serve Mr Bashir, and if he is dissatisfied, he will undoubtedly find me. That's how well I know him anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u52	Maybe even if he's satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yesterday I pointed out that there is currently a waterbed effect. There's a huge influx of refugees. The azc's still have status holders and they now need steam and boiling water to the housing market. My proposal yesterday, perhaps with the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, was to see if more small-scale azc's could be opened across the country, so that we do not immediately have to push the status holders onto the housing market very quickly and spread the distribution more across the country, so that the housing market is relieved a little bit. What is the Minister's position on this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u54	I hope that Mrs Schouten will agree with me that I am reluctant about the first part, i.e. in the azc's and the COA, because this really lies with Mr Dijkhoff. I know that he and the people of the COA are doing an incredible amount of work. I very much agree with Mrs Schouten's approach yesterday in the area that I am dealing with directly. That is why I do not know a better alternative to the present system of allocation. The first part I would really like to have discussed in the debate with Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u55	I also recognise the great work done by Mr Dijkhoff on this subject, but it does concern this Minister precisely because of the waterbed effect that I have just explained. Because it does not yet work optimally on the front, it ends up at the back, I say disrespectfully, on the board of this minister, mainly because of the cramped and housing problems, and also the people around. The Minister acknowledges that it is a cross-border problem and that it lies not only with the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, but that it is precisely this minister who should be around the table with the Secretary of State in order to see if a broader solution can be found. I recognize immediately that the solution is not there, but perhaps this point offers some relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u56	I'm trying to figure out what another shelter in the first phase would offer for solution to the housing market. Suppose the shelter is not large-scale, as it is now and very often driven by the pressure of time, but in small picks here and there. Even so, it will be the size of the influx that determines the pressure on the housing market. Unless the solution would be to leave people in an azc, there will be a flow after that. So I do not immediately see the link between the form of azc-care and the problems in the housing market, but the extent of the influx and the problems in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u57	This is your third question, Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u58	I think I need to sharpen it; let me put it to myself for a moment. We are talking about the status holders who have been in an azc for a long time and now have to leave very quickly because of the influx of refugees. In recent years, many azc locations have been closed, just the smaller ones. Now we're thinking maybe we shouldn't have done that. That is looking afterwards, but we can now also act and ensure that more azc sites are reopened, small-scale and spread across the country, so that there can be a flow of status holders in the azc's and the larger reception sites can be used for the refugees. That's the proposal. It is also in the interest of this Minister to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u59	Then I understand that within the azc's you would actually get some kind of first shelter and a follow-up. Not to be rid of it, but I'm going to talk a bit like an informed layman when I operate on the subject of Mr Dijkhoff and the COA. Then you come to the question why a number of smaller COA locations might not be used anymore. I just can't answer that. I am sure Mr Dijkhoff can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u60	We also discussed the following yesterday. If there were no status holders, would there still be a big demand from other people for a social housing? I think there'd be that question anyway. Now the Minister says he wants to consider whether the urgency statement for status holders should be reconsidered. Who's been helped with that? In any case, not the status holder, not the people who are looking for a home now and certainly not the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who is looking hard for opportunities to get the status holders out of the azc's. So, who was helped with such a review?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u61	A number of parties expressed this in different forms yesterday. It's happening again today. Some link it to the housing provided before. I try to go along with Mr De Vries' proposal all the time. I also serve Mrs Voortman's colleagues. Others didn't make the link. I have explained the questions raised by the government, because without additional measures this leads to congestion in the first care. However, I have understood very well in this debate, in previous debates and also in Dutch society as a whole, that the situation is urgent. She's unique, too. This means that you must also dare to think about all kinds of creative solutions. It doesn't mean you have to jump to conclusions, but I'm not ruling anything out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u62	However, this gives the Minister the impression that he wants to do something about the urgent declaration for status holders, so it would be possible for us to say in the future that status holders are no longer entitled to a social housing. In other words, they have to wait in the azc. If the Minister does not seriously intend to do so, he will give the wrong impression. Then he creates false expectations again for Mr Madlener's constituents. Either the Minister says he's going to do this, or Mr Madlener's voters are happy, or he just has to be honest and say that the urgency statement is necessary to solve the status holders' problem. Once again, I do not think anyone would benefit from the deletion of the urgency statement: not the one seeking a residence now, not the refugee and certainly not the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. His problem is only getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u63	If Mrs Voortman says 'and that is what she says 'there are two flavors', namely either serve only Mr Madlener or leave everything as it is, I can only conclude that there is a ban on thinking. That is a pity for all the power of thought that exists here and in society. That doesn't justify the problem either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u64	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr. Chairman. I can now comment on the Labour Party's proposal to build 100 000 temporary dwellings in the short term, and to make this associated with an obligation for municipalities. First of all, housing corporations can simply invest. When the landlord levy was introduced, the suggestion was sometimes raised, perhaps by people who had an interest in it, that there could no longer be any investment afterwards. Thankfully, because of the financial reports and the actual activities in the housing market, we know that there is still room for investment, but here too, of course, a euro can only be spent once. The investment capacity of a housing corporation can be spent on temporary homes, on permanent new buildings, on isolating existing homes, on making existing homes life-proof and perhaps, if there is real financial space, on reducing rent increases. So there are a lot of options on the table. We have deliberately agreed in the Housing Act that we want to leave it to the local consideration how the investment area is used. We do not have a national picture of where the deficits really are and where there are surpluses. We do not know exactly what the most sensible investment is locally: improving stock or adding it to stock. The appointments are made locally. If necessary, the Empire can make a decision if local parties do not come out of it, but we let the balance be made locally. A compelling model of government is very badly related to this. Suppose the consideration is made locally that the financial space is used to isolate the existing stock or to prevent rent increase. Suppose the tenant association, the housing corporation and the city council agree. That would be very badly related to a central order to do something else. However, I very much appreciate Mr De Vries' concern and search. He's looking for it, wherever possible, in temporary living space. I've also outlined that search direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u66	I think the Minister has come a long way in my direction. My mailbox exploded yesterday. I've received a lot of support, including from municipalities. The G32 thinks it's a fantastic idea. The corporations don't think it's a stupid idea either. There's an emergency. We really need to add rapido huge amounts of homes for the status holders, but we think it is really unwise to operate only urgent status holders. We believe that we must serve all Dutch. Those too are sometimes in distress. If there's an emergency, isn't it logical that you, as a cabinet, set those priorities again and set the municipalities a task? Now the target is only to house status holders in the existing stock. That's what the law says. That's special, isn't it? We want more homes for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u67	I think that Mr De Vries' exploded mailbox contains a large part of the answer. I understand he exploded partly through housing corporations and municipalities. They're at the local meetings at the table. If, together, they think that the right solution is to build temporary housing quickly, if they are going to use their investment capacity together, then that is possible. I have also seen this in a number of places. That temporary housing looks much more slick than the word "dumpster house" suggests. Where I find the proposal bad fit into the Housing Act, at the moment when we start to say: every municipality, whether it is in a relaxed housing market or a tense housing market, gets a central obligation through the Housing Act, which is less than six months old, regardless of the financial possibilities that are available locally. I don't think that would fit into the new House Act. If I declare that obligation, even for municipalities and corporations that have no space, they will say: good idea, here's the bill. Then I come back to my first condition: it is not free.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u68	In that mailbox there were wonderful proposals from people who can deliver things, with business cases that are sometimes close. This applies to ready-made solutions, in offices but also on free lots. We do not want one municipality to say yes and the other not to say yes. It should apply not only to the municipalities with a municipal administration that says "be welcome" but also to the municipal authorities that fail to do so. We all have to get the job done. There is now an obligation for all municipalities to allocate priority to the existing stock and thus to replace the Dutch house seeker. We think there is only one solution, namely volume. That volume doesn't come naturally. It's gonna have to be sent a little bit from above. Look, I know the Minister's in awe of sending from upstairs, but there's a real emergency. We should not have the support base completely gone and we should only offer solutions for the status holders. We have really thought through and talked to all parties to see if this is affordable. This is affordable, provided priorities are set.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u69	The problem will not arise in places where it is affordable. Mr De Vries rightly points out that there are many municipalities and housing corporations that will make this choice. It's gonna be cramped like a municipality and a local housing corporation that gets commissioned, in Mr De Vries's thinking line, and come back with the communication "we don't have the money" or "it really doesn't fit in with the priorities we set locally." Then it really comes back as an account to the Empire. Then we stand here again looking at each other with great eyes, because then we encounter one of those conditions that I have just mentioned. On the contrary, we have deliberately placed this peripheral condition at the municipality and housing corporation. This has been done in my full conviction; moreover, I think I remember that local control on the housing market and housing corporation is a crown jewel of the PvdA. In that context, I find it very strange to say within six months that we are abolishing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u70	I wholeheartedly support the Minister's last words. With the Housing Act, we have deliberately chosen to lay it down locally. However, I also understand Mr De Vries' point. We have an emergency situation and the feeling that something needs to be done urgently. I'd like to turn it around. Does Minister Blok also keep a finger on the pulse when it comes to the realization of all these plans? Can he intervene in time if he finds out it's stalling at local level for whatever reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u71	Sure. We agreed that the Chamber should be informed annually about the state of housing and the state of the housing market. In particular, I am keeping an eye on four issues. One of these is the housing of the priority target groups, as technically called; status holders but also people with a ggz background. So, yeah, we're holding a finger on the wrist. I also understand that Mr De Vries says, and I agree with him immediately: once a year, this problem may well be a little bit over the top. I share his urgency and I also see an important part of the direction of solution in adding non-traditional stocks. That is why I am adding a number of other measures to the legal measures already taken in the letter. However, there are elements of his plan which I wonder whether they fit within the agreements we have just made with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u72	That's what I'm sharing. However, we do not feel that it is going too fast at local level, also because we are looking at the role and content of the question at local level: what is the task and how are we going to do it together? Mr De Vries is right to say that we are faced with urgent cuts. Is it not a task of the cabinet in a broad sense to sit behind it and, apart from the letter from the government real estate company and the empty office position, to fill in that task and order at local level to make it a little urgent and urgent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u73	First of all, I would like to comment on Mr Koolmees' statement that too little would often happen. Fortunately, there are also many examples of municipalities and housing corporations that are already taking the opportunity to offer this type of accommodation. I've informed the Chamber about that. At the same time, we notice that it is pinching. I don't think there's a lack of urgency in the municipalities. However, at every stage we discover whether it has to do with regulation or funding. As far as I can change regulations quickly, I did. When that really raises a number of questions, I will take a serious look at it. Financial questions are often the most thorny ones, but that will not surprise Mr Koolmees. There's always a payback model in renting housing, but someone has to make the first investment he hopes to make back in ten years. This is the subject of the follow-up talks with municipalities and housing corporations. To a large extent, this must be within their current remit. Again, I think a lot of housing corporations take this well. You always get the follow-up question: is there really a financial problem or is it a chance to put a little hold in the general pot after all? Those are the questions that we are now working on with each other under great pressure of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mr De Vries is not yet entirely satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u75	I can tell we're getting closer, and then you have business to do. The minister says he doesn't want to make a commitment, but then he says he's going to report quarterly. What kind of discussions does he think are going to be in this house if the volume stays too low? Then the Chamber will call out: Minister, do your best and make sure there's more to come? I understand that it may not be possible to impose a binding mandate and that it does not fit in with the Minister's thinking. Maybe he can think about an indicative task, so that we clearly indicate that urgency: everyone participates, everyone has a task to think along with. It is conceivable that a municipality really can't or that a corporation doesn't have the resources. Municipalities are allowed to exchange targets; you can solve them regionally. That could also be a solution to these problems. I think we're very close. Let's get that ball into the target.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u76	Fortunately, all the words here are recorded. I didn't say I was gonna report every three months. I did say, in line with the debate with Mr Koolmees just now, that an annual report is not a correct answer to this question and that I want to be much closer to the ball in all the discussions and with all the accompanying measures. In line with what I said earlier, I would like to seriously consider an indicative objective. Again, I'm dealing with municipalities and housing corporations. I have already said that, in this debate, we should not start to burn each other down on what is not possible. I'll discuss this seriously with them. A number of interruptions addressed the wider demand for the functioning of the rental market. Mr Bashir and Mrs Voortman asked whether the functioning of the rental market was not the cause of the bottlenecks in the reception of refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u77	I'm not sure the Minister will come back to the question I asked. He indicated earlier that the COA is talking about the possibility of receiving care in the former ministries of Social Affairs and LNV and in the Juliana barracks. These are specific examples of vacant state real estate that were not on the list he sent to the Chamber. Does the Minister know when that will be completed? Then we know when the city of The Hague can take action on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u78	No, I don't know the latter. But knowing the COA, it's in a lot of haste and will soon say yes or no. I'm getting to the operation of the rental market. On that market a large number of measures have been taken, very strongly aimed at promoting flow from the basic note that the Netherlands has at least the largest share of social housing in the world, but is nevertheless faced with decent waiting times in a number of municipalities. By the way, I don't have any signals that the flow is sticking. We will evaluate the rental tax as a whole in 2016 and report on developments in the housing market every year. But the figures we now have from the Tax Administration on the share of high-income tenants that we want to see flowing through show a decrease. There you have to filter out which part of business/income development and which part of policy is. In 2013, a small 27% of tenants still had an income in the highest category and two years later it was 23%. So that's really a substantial decrease in such a short period of time. Again, that you need to filter out the other developments from there, is clear, so I am not going to draw a definitive conclusion from that, but I do not recognize the image that is blocking the flow for that reason. Mrs Voortman and Mr Bashir asked whether the waiting times did not indicate that there was a structural problem in the rental market. I have just indicated that the size of the Dutch social housing stock is not only the largest in the world. In addition, we can compare the size of this stock with the number of people on low incomes and that such a property could therefore be obtained on the basis of the allocation criteria. That doesn't show that the stock doesn't fit. It shows that about 600,000 of these houses, a quarter of them, are inhabited by people with a good income. If they checked in today, they wouldn't get a social rental. 600,000! That is much more than there is anywhere in Amsterdam. That is why this large number of measures have been taken to promote this flow. I have also pointed out in previous debates with the Chamber that the concept of 'wait time' is very polluted. There is no central registration at all. Any comments that the waiting lists are increasing, I can't place them. Almost all housing corporations work with registration and people who have to register themselves when they really want to be eligible for housing on the basis of that registration. Only then will it be considered how long they are registered and whether they may be covered by one of the groups which is eligible as a priority for housing. That system of course leads people to sign up massively, because that is a lottery without staples: at eighteen you register already, because then you build up for years and when you really want to have that property, you start looking for it. In addition, there are also people on the waiting list who have a house elsewhere, but who can also have a social rental house. The example of Amsterdam is often mentioned. Of course, there are a lot of people who live in a part of Amsterdam where they probably enjoy it, but who would rather live in the Jordaan or the Pipe. They are on the waiting list and hope by gathering enough years at the moment when the dream home, which is even more beautiful than their current home, is released by flowing. That is why I do not share the view that the waiting lists will disappear if we build more homes. In economic communications, I always look at Mr Koolmees, but I think the economist points out that if you offer a nice product below the price, you will always get a waiting list. That's what blows up the question. Of course, there is a huge demand for homes for €500, €600 in the canal belt. Who doesn't want that? And you're pushing down the offer because the builder can't recoup his investments. No matter how much we build, you can't build that much within the Amsterdam canal belt in very popular places, you'll always keep waiting lists as long as you don't release the prices. That has all kinds of other effects, but the reasoning "if you build, there are no waiting lists," I'm afraid, is incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u79	During the parliamentary survey on housing corporations, the concept of waiting lists also played a role in the investigation of the activities of housing corporations. Our thesis was that as long as there are waiting lists, there's something wrong. Either there's a shortage of homes or you're not doing your business right. Let's talk about a city like Venlo instead of Amsterdam. In Venlo, as I know firsthand, there are people getting divorced. Then a person needs an extra rental house, but that rental house isn't there. I quote the Minister's answer to a question by Mr Bashir on waiting lists: 'If the search time is assumed (that is the period between the date of the first response to an offer and the date of actual rental) instead of the registration time, the waiting time is a factor 2 to 4 shorter'. My thesis is: as long as that search time is there, you still have a problem. If someone in Venlo needs a social rental, he'll have to wait two to three years. In the meantime, you also have to deal with all kinds of social dynamics that you don't want. Around the term waiting list a kind of wall of fog is always erected, whereas this is a crucial factor for the Dutch social housing that we all have to look at very thoroughly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u80	The nuance that Mr Van Vliet has put in with regard to the waiting period, I also tried to put in my answer. People register first, because then they save up for years, and often start looking later. That is why, in reply to the parliamentary questions, reference was made to a recent investigation by RIGO. They have indeed tried to raise the fog around the concept of waiting times. They didn't come out at 21 or 12 or what was circulating, but they came out factors lower when you start measuring from the moment people actually start looking. This varies from one region to another. Then I come to the example of the divorce in Venlo. One in three relationships in the Netherlands is on the rocks. That's very sad but also part of life. If you do not want a waiting list at all at the time, you will find yourself in a situation similar to the situation I just outlined when there is a sudden influx of asylum seekers. So you should have a permanent supply of empty homes. That's socially incredibly expensive. That doesn't mean I don't think anything should happen. That is also an important reason why I am also working on a law for temporary leases at the request of a number of housing corporations and aldermen. One of the opportunities they want to create is a first care facility where people can go for a year, because divorce brings many problems. Living room is one of them. One of the reasons I am working on this law is that they are given the opportunity to offer separate complexes as the first provision after the end of the relationship. They should be able to say: you will be staying here for a year now, because then you can arrange a number of things that you will undoubtedly have to settle around the whole divorce, quietly; but because probably one in three relationships will still be on the cliffs in the future, we would like you to make room for someone else. That's one of the reasons I'm working on that law. That is precisely because of this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u81	So more than one in three Cabinets that beach prematurely, don't have to wait for a new Tower after that. My thesis is that waiting lists do indeed play a role in the effectiveness and efficiency of the Dutch housing market. People who apply for a rental house really have to wait two or three years and people get jealous of each other because one has a home before the other; then I'm not even talking about status holders, but about people who happen to have a family member working at a housing corporation. That's not a good situation. There should be no class justice and discrimination. Anyone who really needs a home should be able to get it. So I would like to point out that the difference between search time and waiting list should not be at the heart of the discussion either. You need to see where you can shorten the search times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u82	I agree with the importance of shortening the search time, but I have just outlined two economic principles. One principle is that as long as you offer a good product below the market price, you blow up demand and push down supply. I can't make it prettier. That's what you're doing. I see poor signs from Mr Koolmees, who has studied for this. The other principle is: if you really want a house available at any time when someone is looking for a home because of a divorce, you must have a very large empty stock. This brings me back to the other condition: empty stocks are not free. I am not saying that waiting times are not important; therefore we have had that research done to clear up that fog. However, I am opposed to the idea that, if you add up, there are no waiting times or that a situation without waiting time is an optimal situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr Van Vliet, you have asked two long questions and you have received two long answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u84	A brief correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u85	A correction can always be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'm not arguing for just building more homes. I merely call for the debate on waiting lists to be conducted fairly and not so lightly every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u87	The research to which Mr Van Vliet refers shows that I want to get the real situation on the table. I also do this in conversations in all kinds of places not only in Amsterdam; there you see this very much, but you also see this in other places where it is also often told: if you want a property in the center or if you want a property with a garden, you have to wait a long time; if you are looking for a neat apartment I was born in an apartment; it was then called "a flat" you can quickly get to work. Those are very human considerations, but you have to keep an eye on them when you talk about waiting lists and waiting times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u88	I had to read the Minister's written answers a few times to understand that there is a discussion about waiting lists, waiting times, search times, search times and so on. However, it is a fact that people have to wait a long time for a home. I am not even talking about Amsterdam or the Jordaan, but also about Venlo, Leeuwarden and Groningen. People are looking for a place to live and they can't find it right now. They must continue to respond for several years in succession in order to obtain a home. It is also a fact that the Minister himself states in writing to the Chamber that there are currently 100,000 social housing too few. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he agrees with his own answer that there is currently a shortage of 100,000 social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mr Bashir made a number of comments. He gave the example of Groningen. The other day I talked to a local housing corporation there. I know that town pretty well because I studied there. That's exactly what I just outlined. There are suburbs of Groningen, with the beautiful names Beijum and Lewenborg. They were built in the 1970s, when the PTT got there. There the waiting times are much shorter than if you want to live at the Noorderhaven or the Lage der A. Because people really want to live there; I also like it there. This illustrates exactly that in Groningen, just like in Amsterdam or in other places, the length of the waiting list depends very much on where exactly you want to live, what type of home you want and how quickly you are satisfied. If you like, the waiting list in Groningen is much shorter than Mr Bashir's sketch. Mr Bashir then asked about the transfer by the Economic Institute for Construction, which outlines the need for housing over the next 20 years. For the three segments, this bill shows the expected need. Social rents still account for about 100,000 homes in a total volume of 2.5 million homes. Private rents are doubled: 400,000 homes are added. The purchasing sector is growing by around 20%. This clearly shows that there will simply be a demand for housing at a lower rate than in recent years. The EIB meets a need of 1 million over 25 years, i.e. 40,000 per year. The smallest need is in the social rent. The 100,000 does not play tomorrow, because it is an estimate for the coming years under unchanged policies. I think the good news is that this estimate is further feasible, but it does not show that there will be a shortage of 100,000 social housing units today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u90	The Minister's answer is that he acknowledges that there are waiting lists, in some neighbourhoods there are waiting lists, and in some neighbourhoods there are no waiting lists, but that he does not actually agree that there are waiting lists. That is why he is looking for a different term for the waiting lists, such as "search times" or "search times." He looks away from reality, as I see, when I speak to people in the suburbs of Groningen and Leeuwarden, that there are even waiting lists there. The Minister insists that these are nice neighborhoods where people like to live. I'm sure they would, because otherwise they wouldn't have responded to those homes, but the fact is that the waiting lists are there. Then let's put that all on paper. We put all these different dates on paper and we're going to look at them: what do people react to and how long are they on a waiting list? Then we have an image and can enter into the debate on the basis of facts about search lists, waiting lists, search times or whatever we call them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u91	I am prepared to extend the research carried out by the RIGO, which has been carried out in a number of places. I am happy to make that commitment to Mr Bashir. What I regret is this. A debate is always a confrontation between ideas. I give a number of reasons why I do not say that there are no waiting lists, and that is not what Mr Bashir heard me say either, but that there are huge differences, not only nationally but also locally. I also say that the system of social housing automatically involves waiting lists in beloved places. I do not hear Mr Bashir contradict that, and since Mr Bashir is the most important opponent in this debate, I conclude from that that he does not deny it either. This does not mean that we are doing nothing, which is why I also mentioned the measures, but we obviously agree on the basic reasons behind them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u92	The Minister knows his business well, so I think he's right in a lot of ways. I am just a little disappointed that he places such an extremely one-sided emphasis on the explanation for the fact that sometimes the waiting lists are overrated. The RIGO simply concludes that a waiting period of two to three years is normal in large parts of the country. Why do urgent housing seekers who, for example, come from a stay-of-my-living home, from youth care or from detention have to wait a long time? Why do they have to wait longer than people who have been granted status in the Netherlands? I also understand the maths made by the Minister. If you add up how many social rentals there are and how many people on low incomes, it seems to be right. The Minister also takes measures; good measures. But doesn't it take time to make sure that the flow really gets going and that people live in homes that match their income? In the meantime, people are getting into trouble. I don't hear that, and I'm sorry about that. We support the Minister in the end goal, but accidents may happen on the road to it, and we must prevent them. People shouldn't get in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u93	People shouldn't get in trouble. I agree with that, but I do have to make a few comments about the picture Mr De Vries gives. I didn't say there were no waiting lists or waiting times. With the RIGO research, I have just tried to show that first of all I want to know the seam of the stocking, and secondly, the picture of the actual search times is lower, but not zero. A search time of zero has great social costs. Then there are a lot of empty homes. The RIGO study does not deal with urgent cases, and certainly not with a distinction between the different types of emergency cases. That is what Mr De Vries' question is about. That's what you should be looking for specifically. However, I have already told Mr Bashir that this is an important part of the debate. I agree. It is also not easy to bring up research, because you really have to ask locally and pick what the search time really is. I am therefore happy to admit that I am going to extend the scope of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u94	Of course I'm happy about that. In the terms of GroenLinks, I would like to call for less economics to be applied when addressing the questions on the housing market and to take little account of the needs of the people. With that tone we'll get there, because we're not that far apart at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u95	The housing market is about more than economics, but in some ways the seeker behaves a bit as an economist would expect. He attaches a low price and good quality, and I agree with him, but there are certain consequences. I'm going back to the operation of the rental market and the flow. I have indicated that the measures taken by the income-dependent rent increase are having effects on the basis of the initial indications. Mr Ronnes asked about the consequences of the announced law on the rent. When we agreed on the housing agreement, we also said that we would replace the income-dependent rent increase with a rent payment in the long term. This was a wish in the plan Living 4.0, which was drawn up by a number of parties before the last elections. By the way, it proved difficult in the implementation, even the year after that. I had to tell the Chamber that we didn't get out so quickly with parties. After the agreement with Aedes and the Woonbond on a rent on the basis of the average rate of inflation plus 1%, I indicated that I would be prepared to amend the law so that this is possible. Of course, housing corporations can calculate less rent increase themselves, but the system does require a legislative change. This has a positive and negative impact on the flow. A positive effect is that harmonisation is also taken into account in the rent-based approach. That's the rent increase that's possible when a sitting tenant leaves. At that time, the rent may be raised, if this increase remains within the housing valuation system. The housing corporations have made great use of this, partly because they have until recently been able to increase rents by no more than inflation and they have to keep the organisation financially running. For example, older people who lived in a single-family house for a very long time may have to pay €500 or €600 for a smaller, life-proof apartment, while they paid €400 or less for the single-family house because they lived in the same house for a long time and therefore were covered by rent protection. This effect is greatly reduced by a rent-based approach, which takes into account harmonisation. What doesn't have the rent-sum approach again is the very targeted incentive of higher incomes to flow through. For this reason, I indicated in the letter that I would like to maintain the income test and, at least once every five years, to have incomes above the allocation limit checked. If it is above the income of the allocation limit, then I want to allow a rent increase in inflation plus 4%. In this way we introduce a new flow incentive and maintain the older in a slightly adapted form.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u96	I like the stimulation of flow, but why an income test once every five years and not, for example, every two or three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u97	One of the thoughts behind reducing the income test is less administrative pressure, both on the Tax Administration and on the landlords. We'll deal with the law, so I'm also in the hands of the Chamber in passing the law. So to Mr Van Vliet's question I can answer that this has to do with administrative pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u98	I am very much in favour of the feasibility of the Tax Office...... that everyone knows but a difference between five and two years has to be done. I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u99	I'd like to join in on that. I had the same question when I read it. In recent years, we have been working to promote the flow, also by means of the income tests. The administrative burden has never been an argument. Now suddenly, for once every five years, we've been elected. I also said that the flow would not stop; that misunderstanding was possible with the Minister. But now I'm afraid it's gonna stick a little bit. Does the Minister recognize that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u100	That administrative burden was the main point that the housing corporations put forward in their plea for the rent. The concerns about Mr Van Vliet's Tax Office are also mine. I have already indicated that it is fortunately so arranged that the Minister brings a bill to the Chamber and that I am watching over the feasibility, but I am also listening very carefully to the Chamber, which can also amend it. The more often you take an income test, the more often you get that incentive on the flow. The proposed system remains a five-year rent increase of 4%, unless someone has a fall in income in the meantime. This is also the case in the current law on income-dependent rent increases. However, I fully accept Mrs Schouten's concern about this. Again, that bill will come to the Chamber in the fall. Then I would like to comment on the pros and cons of the chosen system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u101	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr Bashir asked whether selling social housing or wider corporation ownership is not seriously reducing stock and why I spent time talking to investors at all. I believe that, in particular, foreign investors raised concerns. The Chamber receives annual reports from the supervisor on the size of the stock of social housing in the Netherlands, the annex, the demolition and the sale. The picture about the past few years is indeed that it has been sold, but it has also been added. It is therefore not the case that there is a huge decrease in the number of social housing units in the Netherlands. It is fairly stable with pluses and minuses, but there is no big decrease. He also asked why I'm talking to foreign investors. I'm doing it because I think it needs to be built. I believe that Mr Bashir felt the same way. I think we all do. That takes money. I can't help but have to make one of those economic comments again, but someone has to put those houses down. We have seen in recent years that private investors were disappearing from the Dutch rental market because they found it too closely regulated. We even read regularly in the newspaper that Dutch pension funds in England or Germany set up a complex student homes or rental homes, but that they did virtually nothing in the Netherlands. You want to change that, and I want to change that, then you have to change the circumstances for them. That is one of the reasons why we have regulated in the Housing Act that housing corporations have a state guarantee for social housing, but not for commercial activities. They have quite often gone wrong with that, but they also created an uneven playing field. Of course, I have to explain to investors that we are changing something in the Netherlands. In Frankfurt, London or New York not everyone spends all day reading the Volkskrant to see what is changing in the Netherlands. Then I ask the embassy if it can bring together a number of investors for me. Or I go to a fair once a year in Munich, in a rather silly fair building somewhere on an asphalt plain outside Munich. There I stand in the Dutch booth and make agreements with investors. Then I will explain the scale of the question, as shown by, for example, the EIB forecast we have just discussed. I explain that there is a need for investment in free-sector housing. I would also point out to them that they can become active in the mortgage market. The good news is it's both working. I remember three years ago there was only one concern about the mortgage market: there were only three providers who did not answer the phone for the customers and the margins were too high. There are again a lot of providers, also many foreign ones, and the margins are under enormous pressure. This is good for the consumer. This is due to the measures taken by the parties to the housing agreement on the mortgage market. They provide clarity. That's the good news you just have to tell me. Now I'm going into the rental market. Yesterday, the newspaper said that the German investor Patriza, which the SP was somewhat concerned about because he also bought part of Vestia's property, is going to build 600 homes in The Hague for the free sector rent. That sounds like good news for 600 house seekers in The Hague. That seems to me to be good news for Dutch construction workers too. So, frankly, I want to continue to travel to London and Munich and also receive investors here for Dutch house seekers and Dutch construction workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u103	The fact that 600 rentals will be built in the free sector is of course good news for people looking for such a property. If there are any other investors who want to build houses here, they are of course welcome. The problem with the sale of social housing is that the money is not always used one-on-one to build social housing again. No, that money is used, for example, to pay the landlord's tax in order to pay the state cash and, of course, to build houses. When we look at the progress of social housing, we do not see that there are substantial additional housing. The Minister now points to EIB research on a number of occasions. He thus confirms that 100,000 homes are needed, not in 20 years' time, but in 2020, so in four years' time. Where should they come from if the Minister is committed to building free-sector housing and housing, but not social housing? What's the Minister's commitment to getting those 100,000 homes in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u104	Investing in new homes by housing corporations is still possible. When the landlord tax was introduced, ghost stories told that there was no investment, but they just didn't come true. Whether investments are made in new, in renovation or in less high rents, we have deliberately and with broad support laid down in the local performance agreements between the municipality and housing corporation. We have also said quite deliberately that we are not going to run this nationwide. That's impossible, too. So in the coming period, social housing will be built, just like in the past few years. There too, the local differences, which we have already talked about in detail, will be filled in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u105	The problem remains that there are a lot of people on the waiting list. We have just had a discussion on the waiting lists and now we have come to the sale. The social housing that is now being sold is often taken out of the social housing stock. Then it's just free sector housing. We can look away and ignore the facts, but we cannot throw everything over the fence with the municipalities and housing corporations if we need 100,000 homes in 2020 at the same time. So my question remains: what is the Minister going to do to get those 100,000 additional homes that we need by 2020. What's his plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u106	I understand that the planning thinking specific to the SP is also applied to the housing market, but the reasoning is really flawed. If a social rental house is sold, it is not immediately finished with social housing. A sale doesn't break the lease. The incumbent tenant can therefore continue the existing lease. Whether or not the property remains a social rental house on the departure of that tenant is determined by the housing valuation system. So the sale itself doesn't do anything yet. Next, it can be very sensible policy of housing corporations to sell homes, even if they would eventually want more homes. Housing corporations have built a lot of beautiful and expensive homes in recent years. On average, they've built well above the social rental line. The big question is one- and two-person households. The social task is to offer affordable homes for people with a small wallet. This is, for example, legally locked with appropriate allocation. So we really have to allocate low-rent properties to people with a rent allowance. Then it can be quite rational to sell part of the stock, that more expensive stock, and to invest the proceeds in affordable social housing, that core task. So we should never prohibit that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u107	What will the Minister do to add 100,000 homes by 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u108	The SP's planning economy isn't mine. I've taken a whole line of measures. I challenge Mr Bashir to mention a minister who has taken so many measures. I call it appropriate allocation, the ability to sell anyway and approach foreign investors to become active in the Netherlands, and successfully, because they are coming. This will ensure that new money is placed on the housing market and that housing corporations focus on affordable housing. Furthermore, we can be prevented from lingering in that completely frozen housing market that the Netherlands had until three years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u109	I did not hear at the beginning of the Minister's speech which blocks he will raise. I'm curious if he'll talk about old-age housing and senior homes as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u110	I will come to the questions of 50PLUS. I am now also entitled to count on this, at least among the 50-plussers, not among the party. I had to think about it when Mr Krol spoke so emphatically yesterday about the concerns of 50-plussers. I was wondering what concerns I should take next. Mr De Vries and Mr Ronnes asked how I would ensure that the expansion of the middle-cost rental segment, which is so important for the flow and housing of the large group of middle-income people, could be accelerated other than by attracting investors and the changes to the Housing Act. During the introduction of the new Housing Act, I conducted an extensive information campaign with the people of the Ministry for the municipalities and housing corporations. We have pointed out that there is a local demand for medium-cost housing and that this means that this must be taken into account when allocating land. Traditionally, building land was allocated very cheaply to housing corporations or sold at the highest possible price for residential properties. For a locally healthy housing market, it is important that municipalities also designate a third category, namely the average rent. In every municipality, a lot of people will need it. The municipalities really need to get this on the retina. By the way, if I take such a long journey to Munich or London, I am lucky enough to meet many aldermen who are there for the same reason as I am. The Labour Party and VVD groups tabled a motion last year asking the government to consider whether it is possible to give an extra boost to the average rent. Mr Koolmees also asked about this. I replied at that time that I think this is a nice idea. The idea was to do this, for example, by combining a stop on the landlord's tax and the right of tenants to rent surcharge. This could then be budgetaryly neutral. I have informed the Chamber that this logical option is not legally feasible, because the right to rent payment cannot be reduced in this way; it is purely linked to income. That is why I am already an end to the idea of alternative solutions. I do this together with municipalities and investors. I hope that I will be able to send a letter to the Chamber in the near future in which I outline that solution. Then it should be possible to include them in the treatment of the rent bill coming this fall. I hope that the Chamber will give me some time to work on it. Mr Van Vliet asked me how I'm going to monitor the housing visions we agreed on in the Housing Act, not as an obligation but as a resounding perspective because you can only make performance agreements with a residential vision. He also asked how we look at financial halability. We ensure that municipalities are given an indicator of the investment capacity of housing corporations. The guarantee fund and the supervisor will then check whether the plans are really affordable. I will also follow up and report to the Chamber on the extent to which the agreements are made and how the four priorities we have agreed on are dealt with. A large number of questions have been asked about the landlord tax. Mr Ronnes asked whether the evaluation on this matter would be serious because the long-term budget estimate still contains a landlord levy. Mr Bashir also asked for this. That evaluation will be very serious. A number of questions have also been asked from the Chamber about the different target groups. Mr Koolmees mentioned, among other things, the independent homes in the GZZ, but in the past I have also been reminded of several other target groups, where we are going to see if the landlord tax works as we expected. A responsible cabinet also makes budget estimates after its own cabinet period. Of course, you want to show your successors whether with the current plans our national housekeeping book is in order in the future. Of course, a next cabinet can choose to adjust that landlord's tax. In a coalition agreement, that playing field is free again, including the bills that go with it. So if there is a party that wants to lower this landlord's tax, it will have to think about whether it wants to spend less or that it will change another charge. If a party says that this levy should be increased, it will have to explain the consequences for investment capacity. In any case, I think it is only right that a cabinet during its term of office should show what the financial consequences of policies will be for a subsequent period. Mr De Vries asked me whether the reduction in the landlord levy currently in place for shrinking areas could already be opened up to the newly added shrinking areas. I would really like to include that question in that evaluation. When we had the discussion here about adding shrinking areas, I indicated that it would not be possible for the landlord tax to do so immediately, but in an evaluation it is one of the logical questions that should be on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u111	I understand. That's exactly what we agreed to do. However, now that the explanatory statement on the budget shows that there are outstanding amounts left over from that reduction, it would be worth considering whether these two areas, which have now also acquired the status of shrinkage region, might be eligible for this money on the basis of a provisional measure. That was actually my question, because that money is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u112	As far as the financial aspect is concerned, two questions have been asked: the question put by Mr De Vries and the question put by Mr Ronnes. I think it is a little too early to say that too little use has been made of the discount option. Until 2017, applications can be submitted which may then be used in the years thereafter. I don't think it's entirely odd that it's gonna take a while before there are investment plans again. So that's why I'd really like to wait for the evaluation. Mr Ronnes looked at the revenue side of the landlord levy and asked whether it could be used for a flow-through loan. As far as I am concerned, two considerations play a role. The budgetary rules are strict and they say that a tax checker should not be spent immediately, just as you do not have to compensate an expenditure checker immediately. In addition, I was a little surprised at the suggestion of the flow loan because last year I had a discussion with the CDA about building savings. Promoting the combination of savings and borrowing seems to me to be a bit like braking and throbbing. So that's more the content of the flow loan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u113	Sorry, Mr Ronnes, but Mr Van Vliet has been waiting patiently for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u114	This was some kind of entrapment. Go ahead, Mr. Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u115	I have to agree with the Minister, through you, President, in the remark he makes. This only with the nuance that we are still looking at how we can stimulate the flow in the rental market towards the house of sale. It seemed to us that the spill-over loan was an option to get reinforcements in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u116	Apart from the budgetary rules that do not allow it, I am not convinced that the borrowing problem is at the heart of the matter. I think the core of the issue is that people with high incomes live relatively cheaply in beautiful rental homes. I will deal with the question of Nibud standards later, but very few questions have been asked about developments in the housing market. That will undoubtedly be the case because yesterday and today we were flooded by very good news. The developments in the housing market do not indicate that there are major bottlenecks in the financing of housing. Mr Madlener sees them, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u117	Well, who was the first? Mr. Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u118	Welcome, Mr President, to this debate. Through you, I ask the Minister if there will be a separate block of shrinkage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u120	Then I'm gonna give you a break from an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u121	I would like to ask another question about the landlord's tax. The Minister says that it is part of the cabinet's task to look at the long term as well. Just now, he didn't want that to happen with the 100,000 houses that are being built up, but now he wanted it to happen with regard to the landlord's tax. The EUR 1.6 billion landlord levy is also being increased to EUR 1.7 billion, while it was promised that we should continue to do so only at the evaluation stage. Why is the landlord levy increased to 1.7 billion in the period after 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u122	There is really a difference between a cabinet that correctly calculates the consequences of its own policy and the organisation of a planned economy in the Netherlands in the area of the housing market. The increases are in the estimates because they are estimated in parallel with the expected increases in the rent surcharge. The evaluation will address the question of whether the landlord levy works as expected or whether there are any parts of the landlord's landlord's tax. If a party does not want a landlord tax or less, and I know that the SP wants it, then it will have to find cover for it. It adorns the SP that a counter-budget has been surrendered. There's just no cover, because the deficit is running out. That is also a financial choice or a political choice. It's just a choice the cabinet doesn't make. A subsequent cabinet can re-establish all taxes, taxes and expenses. That's how it works in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u123	If you want to take 1.6 billion away from the landlords, you need to see which other organizations in the country are asking you for money. An amount of 1.6 billion for social housing means that much less can be built. If you shape the landlord's tax differently, you can use the 1.6 billion so that housing corporations start investing again. For example, you could introduce a deduction within the landlord levy. Why do we only ask the banks for half a billion and the landlords for 1.6 billion? Is that based on the principle of "the strongest shoulders the heaviest burdens"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u124	The argument that the 1.7 billion will not be built and that this will be borne entirely by the tenants has been used very often here. In the meantime, we are much further away and we know that the levy, as it was intended, is to a large extent generated by more efficient work. The housing corporations have also indicated in advance that there was almost 1 billion to be generated. When you talk to housing corporations, you also hear they're working on that. The statement that there is no longer any construction might have some credibility when we first had these debates three years ago. That credibility is no longer there, because we know what has happened in the meantime. In the meantime, Aedes, in consultation with the House Union, has also asked for less rental space to be included in the law. That indicates that Aedes himself sees that financial space. With all due respect to Mr Bashir, with the knowledge of today, this debate is really no longer relevant. In comparison with another sector, for example the banking sector, and in every other form of taxation, of course, you always look at the social effects. Banking taxation is reflected in, for example, loan rates or payment rates. Tax on another sector is also reflected in what the public has to pay. The cabinet has taken a huge package of measures, of which the housing market was one part. On both the buying and rental markets, this was very far-reaching, but one cannot say that one sector of Dutch society had to bear the effects of the crisis. We have deliberately increased the budget for the rent supplement to ensure that people with the lowest incomes are spared from the rent increases that have been possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u125	I'd like to go into the sales market, Mr. Chairman. I don't know if this is a good time or if the Minister wants to finish his lease first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u126	I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u127	Fine. I have just made a comment on this and understand that Mr Madlener wants to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u128	The Minister just said that there are hardly any problems in the market and in the flow of rent to the purchasing sector. Now we have enormous problems there. A lot of people need to get out of their social housing. They get an extra rent increase, because they earn more than €34,000 a year. They'll go to the bank. The bank then says "you'rezzp'er and can't get a loan at all" or "we actually think you can't carry the charges." It is sometimes very strictly viewed by banks; too strict in my view. Does the Minister maintain that there are no problems for large groups of people to flow to the retail market or does he still have a story about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u129	Every time I interrupt, I have to repeat my own words. I have said that the huge increase in the number of sales transactions, which also came out again yesterday and today, shows that the issues on the market are not the most urgent at the moment when it comes to the demand for financing. That doesn't mean there's no problem. As far as funding forzzp'ers is concerned, we have given more legal scope to take into account future earnings. Only recently, financers and temporary employment agencies have announced that they will use this space by offering mortgages to people on temporary contracts. It is, of course, inevitable that any mortgage provision should be looked at critically, but especially in the case of people with temporary contracts or self-employed entrepreneurs. One of the major causes of the financial crisis in America was a major political pressure on banks to provide mortgages to people without demonstrable income or regular income. These mortgages were then also packaged in all kinds of shady bonds. We must give reasonable scope to self-employed people and temporary workers, but not fall into the mistakes that led to the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u130	This situation has never occurred in the Netherlands. The mortgage contributors in the Netherlands are pretty much the most loyal in the world. People will save on anything but their mortgage payments. So these problems from America never happened in the Netherlands. So I certainly do not share that argument. I do see a lot of people who manage to pay a rent of €750 per month for years. They then want to buy a house, where the net monthly burden is €750 per month. The bank's gonna say, no, we're not gonna do that. I find that situation very strange. I would ask the Minister to take a specific look at this, because if we all want this flow so badly, I would also prefer to see a good owner of a house than a tenant; we agree on that; we should also look at this problem, which is very common.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u131	I am not just looking at the problem, I have also extended the possibilities for banks to take into account future income. Mr Madlener says that fortunately there are few people with payment problems on mortgages. I put it more precisely with "relatively little," because there are still tens of thousands of people in the Netherlands with mortgage payment problems. The fact that there are relatively few delays is, of course, due to the fact that we are keen on the conditions of delivery. The fact that I do not want to take steps in the direction of relaxation is indeed linked to the lesson of the financial crisis and, by the way, to the desire not to throw people into misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u132	What does the Minister think of the idea of including the rent of senior residences under the Reduced Rental Tax Scheme? In the written answer we did not receive an answer to this question. We really think that this could make investing in and renting out senior housing a lot more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u133	I promised Mr Krol that I would answer his questions, so here we are. The term "senior house" is grammatically correct, but not legally defined. You come up with a very complicated issue when you start thinking about what a senior home is. There are a lot of people who are happy to stay in the single-family house where they have always lived and who have grown with their own money or with the help of the municipality. So when is it a senior residence? There are a lot of people who, as they get older, go to a ground floor house on their own. Is a ground floor house a senior house with that? So you're facing a huge definition problem. In addition, there is the more financial question as to what it means if you are going to make further reductions. But that definition problem is really hard on senior residences, especially since I have been living in a senior residence since my birthday in Mr Krol's definition, by the way, with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u134	I do not want to talk about that definition, but I will come back to that in another question. We have specifically asked for senior complexes to be covered by fire safety requirements for care. The answer is about senior residences, but we were talking about senior complexes. These concepts do indeed deserve further investigation. We are there, as we know, for a separate registration, because then you can coordinate the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u135	The theme "fire safety" is I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u136	I will come back to that, but I warn you that you have answered a question that I have not asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u137	I would, however, like to highlight the importance of the issue of fire safety. In the written reply I indicated that I will return to that. Whether it's an individual residence or a complex, you keep running into the question: when is it a senior residence or a senior complex? At the time when genuine AWBZ-approved care is provided, you are generally already outside the atmosphere of regular housing. Things that seem to be easily applicable at first sight become very complicated in terms of definition, regardless of financial demand, when you really want to embed them in legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u138	However, I would like to ask whether the Minister will not even look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u139	I give this answer because I have looked very seriously at that question with my people. The question also came to us along other routes. Do you have to allocate appropriately around senior residences? Every time you come up with that very complicated question, just because there are many seniors with very different lifestyles and wishes. When is a house a senior residence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u140	Okay, I'll go see Mrs. Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u141	I too have a question on the reduction of the landlord's tax and on a written answer. We have arranged here that if there is a transformation, for example from office buildings to housing units, a discount is given on the landlord's tax, or a reduction. This is true in the case of the transformation of independent housing units. Now reports, for example in relation to the Thomas houses, reach me residential care complexes for people with disabilities, which are transformed as independent housing units, that reduction is not applied. This could also become relevant in the discussion on the reception of status holders in cohousing. Can the Minister clarify this? It is therefore a question of the situation in which there is transformation, in which housing units are created. In that situation, can the landlord levy be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u142	I don't know the exact case of the Thomas houses. I'd be happy to look into that specifically if there's any information on it. Generally speaking, the tax reduction cannot apply to self-employed housing because there is no tax on self-employed housing. The advantage is that the construction of independent dwellings is not covered by the tax. However, there can be no tax reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u143	In my opinion, this is not in sync with the example of the Thomas houses it does apply to. A broader issue is then raised. I would like to clarify the cases of transformation, whether self-employed or self-employed. If the Minister says that in those cases there is simply no reduction in the landlord's tax, then it is clear. Then that is also the Minister's ruling. The whole practice can work with that. If the Minister promises to do so, we are already a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u144	This is in accordance with the existing law; self-employed living spaces are not covered by the landlord's tax, so we cannot deduct them either. I think it would be wise for Mrs Schouten to give me the information she has on the Thomas houses. I'd like to dive deeper into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u145	Minister, how many pages have you answered on the subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u146	As far as living is concerned, all I have to do is answer Mr Bashir's question about the shortage of the rent allowance. Then I'm gonna go to the shrinkage. Mr Bashir's question was how we are now dealing with the setbacks in the rent payment in recent years. These setbacks are the result of a larger than expected number of people calling on them. In the new estimates, of course, we always process the realizations we have seen in recent times. In addition, a deeper IBO study will be carried out into the functioning of the rent allowance, the results of which will of course also be shared with the Chamber. Then I come to the questions about shrinkage...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u147	Not yet, because I see Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u148	The minister just slashed the Nibud standards. I asked a rather concrete question about it, namely how we are going to count the second income in it. Or does the Minister come back to that after the questions about shrinkage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u149	No, it is quite right that Mr Van der Linde should ask that. I obviously did not answer that question in writing either. The Nibud counts the second income in a rather complex way, now 33%. I will soon send the Chamber the new standards that the Nibud has calculated. I expect there's already an extension in it. The method of calculation is even more complex than "it is 33% or more of the second income." The Nibud also has standards for the part of the income you can mortgage. This means that the difference in loan amount between a pair that earns twice €50,000 and a couple that earns a 1 tonne and the other is nothing, remarkably small. At the same time as the letter that comes in a week or two, it seems to me most useful to show how it works. Then I can also show what is changing, I think, at the time; I cannot anticipate it entirely. I can also show that the actual differences between the loan amounts along the route I've just outlined, do you earn 1 tonne for two people or 2 times €50,000 on your own? be very small. I hope I can do this. I shall come back to it in detail with an explanation. Let us then have another discussion on the new Nibud standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u150	Before the minister goes to shrink, I still have a rental point. I asked a question yesterday about private investors who say they want to invest in Kanaleneiland and Rotterdam-Zuid. The Minister replied to that question in writing. It was about a new building system in which you get extra points; sorry for the technique. The written set said: can also be applied in case of real high-level renovation. My question to the Minister is twofold. What is that, can that be defined? Does the Minister intend to do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u151	I think it would be wise to answer the first part of the question in writing, because the users of this scheme undoubtedly want to see very precisely when a renovation is a high-level renovation. We can imagine something about that. In that case, it can indeed be used. I will put that in writing again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u152	That sounds positive. So we have to think of either an investment amount or a label jump because of energy efficiency. That is a concrete development of these things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u153	For the label jumps we have another arrangement, which doesn't necessarily make it easier. This can also be invoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u154	Shouldn't we make it more complicated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u155	I have two questions, one of which has not been answered. Can the liberalization limit be increased; if not, why not? The SP Group notes that annual budgeting is too tight on the rent surcharge. Why is there too little budgeting, why is there not real budgeting? Where does the money come from that we are short every year and have to fit in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u156	The liberalization limit is determined by the legislator. So it can be raised and lowered. If it is increased, fewer homes will be built in that segment, because investors will be shocked. If it is lowered, more will be built in the segment above the reduced limit. I can't help but think that's an economic argument. The cabinet has indicated that it wants to freeze the liberalisation limit for a few years, so as to give certainty to investors just above that limit. That is precisely the segment that is so much needed. I hope I have just answered your question on the estimate of the rent payment. An estimate is made at best, based on past experience. In doing so, you make an assessment of economic development, on which you can make a political wish. The cabinet has done so by making 400 million extra available for the rent allowance. Then you see, I fear, in all the estimates, therefore, they are also called so much that in practice they are sometimes not good and sometimes bad. Then you're going to take the lessons of your previous estimate in your new calculation. That's what we do with the rent allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u157	However, it is striking that there is actually a shortage of the rent payment every year, despite the additional resources that have been made available for this purpose. The question remains, then, why not just give a realistic estimate. Now the money has to be found somewhere every time. On the liberalization limit: from the point of view of investors, it is positive, because they can ask for the price they want and get the space they want. But from the point of view of the tenant, that is not good news, because then the cut in the social sector will only get bigger. If homes are above the rental threshold, the supply in the social sector will be reduced. To what extent will that be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u158	This debate needs more economics! There is virtually no offer in the Netherlands between €710 and €850 rent, whereas in a healthy housing market there is a lot of demand for this. There is no such thing, because fortunately the houses that fall under the liberalisation limit are of excellent quality. But private investors say: if I can pay the pensions for which I am a pension fund on earth for a house to charge €800, while they are rented a street away for €650, then no one comes. So they're not built. That is why that segment is missing in the Netherlands. Mr Bashir says: if you set that limit a little higher, it will be nice for the tenants. That's not fun for the tenants at all, because then there's even less building, because an investor can't earn it back. Then you make even bigger waiting lists. That would be very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u159	Briefly, because it's getting all out of hand!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u160	The Minister is acting a little viciously, as if there is a need for economics. There is a need for adequate social housing. There isn't. People can't pay more than €710. Therefore, they need a social housing with a rent supplement, which is partly subsidised. If more and more homes come above that border, there will be a shortage. Those deficits are now there. I regret that the Minister is looking away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u161	This debate needs economics and precision. Mr Bashir says quite literally that there are no people who can pay more than €710. That's what the minutes are gonna tell us. There are 600,000 social housing rentals rented more than there are houses in Amsterdam to families who, if they would report tomorrow for a social housing, would not get. People can pay for that and make a very rational consideration: beautiful house at a low price. That's why we have waiting lists, and that's why we're doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u162	I have an economic question. What will the Minister mean for all those homeowners who suffer damage as a result of the asylum seekers they get next door? These houses fall in value as a result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr Madlener did indeed ask that question yesterday. If there is damage due to a planological change, the Dutch law provides for a planning damages procedure. This applies here and in other cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u164	I am talking here about the damage caused by cabinet policy. I understand what the Minister is saying, but that's not the answer I'm looking for. Firstly, the planning procedure is complicated for people. That's not random, one-two-three, taken care of. Secondly, it is not always a change of destination. Municipalities are now very flexible in placing asylum seekers, but this also causes damage. These people are causing real damage. Sometimes tens of thousands of euros are lost in housing. I think the cabinet should have an answer for the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u165	If there is real damage due to plan damage, so as a result of changing the destination of a piece of land near someone else, we have a proper procedure for that in the Netherlands. If that damage is awarded, then Community money, tax money, another source of money, is not paid out to the person who suffers damage. That is right, because it has damage. You'd have to have a careful procedure for that. You really have to check whether the damage that affected person claims to have is the result of a planological change, before you spend community money on it. I am glad that we have a careful procedure for this. It is open in cases where this applies, but it must be a careful procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u166	Well, then we're gonna get to the part where we shrink. I would ask colleagues to exercise some restraint in the interruptions. And the Minister will respond briefly and succinctly to interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mr Ronnes, Mr De Vries and Mr Bishop were concerned about the involvement of the Empire in the shrinking regions after 2019. I hear Mr Van Vliet now saying that he is also one of the questioners. How could I forget him? I do not think Mr Van Vliet is shrinking immediately, but he did ask questions about it. In the Municipal Fund, money, 11 million euros, has just been made available for five years from 2016. So that's over a longer period. I am also working on the regional plans for the shrinking regions and the anticipation regions. I'll share it with the room as soon as they get there. I haven't included an end date yet. Mr De Vries specifically asked whether the reorganisation of Mr Plasterk's ministry and myself had any influence on this. That's not true. It is true, however, that in the context of an efficient state service, we deal with the Tax Administration in an economical manner. We have said that there are overlaps between the Directorate-General for Housing, which falls under my responsibility, and the Directorate-General for Home Affairs, which falls under the responsibility of Mr Plasterk. This applies in particular to issues such as shrinkage and urban issues, but also, for example, to housing for the elderly, for which Mr Krol and others have rightly drawn attention. Let us not linger in the traditional cookery where every minister must have his own directorates-general who should not cooperate with each other. We now share a Directorate-General which covers both housing and shrinkage issues, regional issues and issues relating to domestic administration. That also makes sense, because these issues affect each other very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u168	The budget states that the shrinking regions after 2019 are supposed to keep their own pants up and take care of the business themselves. I can see some discrepancy between your explanation now and the text in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u169	I do not have it in front of me now, but if I am right, the budget means a financial reserve in addition to the contribution I have just mentioned to the Municipal Fund. That series will indeed end in 2019; that is right. Normally, we'll be in the next cabinet period. So I have to make a proper statement now that no money has been earmarked on this budget line for after 2019 and that a new cabinet, which finds it, can make the decision whether or not it is going to reserve money for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u170	Therefore, where the landlord levy is passed on to the future so as not to leave a next cabinet with decisions that are now being taken, you do not do so here. It is a policy that there is some form of support for the shrinking regions, isn't it? Why would you say, without having done the evaluation first, that they should stop their pants themselves from 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u171	The reasoning is the same as for the landlord levy. In the case of the landlord levy, I also said that a cabinet should show after its own period how the policy is now being assessed, knowing that a new cabinet can turn on all the buttons. We have indeed said about the landlord's tax: continuation seems plausible to the cabinet. A subsequent cabinet can make any decision, with all its consequences. Of this financial contribution to the shrinkage policy, again: this is not the only contribution; there is another contribution; we are now saying that we do not see any money for that at the time. However, this is also true of the fact that, in 2017, if a cabinet is likely to want to raise money again in the year of the new formation, that is a normal financial consideration. However, it would be impure not to show this, because such a cabinet would not know what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u172	Mr De Vries, for one thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u173	There is something really different in the budget. It states that the cabinet will commit to the shrinkage problem until 2019. I read out the phrase that follows: 'The regions are then expected to be able to tackle the problem of shrinkage independently'. That's what it says, and that really came into me like a bomb. I was thinking: now we are going to make a Agenda City and then we are going to leave the countryside and the regions at the borders of the country to their own fate; they are supposed to be strong enough to be able to do it themselves. I really don't get it. I really want to ask whether the Minister really means this and whether it is really going to happen that we are going to withdraw aid to the shrinking areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u174	In any case, there is no withdrawal, because the benefit from the Community Fund is longer. Mr Ronnes and Mr De Vries both refer to a sentence which has given rise to concern. I thought that phrase was purely linked to the financial side, but Mr De Vries now read the sentence with an explanation which I understand. I am going to take that line into account in the suspension and then I will check in the second period whether it is there as I intended it to be. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u175	The Minister is now moving on to the block on shrinkage. Then at the end of that block let's see who has any questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u176	This was the end of that block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u177	Okay, then you go to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u178	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u179	Mr Van Vliet, briefly, because you have already spoken a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u180	Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u181	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u182	Well, I'm shrinking right here. A short question then, about experiments in shrinking areas that can help to create a match between problems on the private housing market on the one hand and a waiting list for social housing on the other. Corporations want to create this match by removing homes from the housing market and then temporarily deploying them as a social rental house below the liberalisation limit. However, they will only be able to do so in a cost-effective way if the landlord levy is not added to that. It's not in the estimates now either, so there will be no loss if you release them. How does the Minister feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u183	The demand for exemptions from the landlord levy is high. In the shrinking regions, one is organized, namely in the form of demolition. One of the main consequences of shrinkage is that there are more homes than there is demand. Mr Van Vliet outlines another possibility, which is rather expensive, I must say honestly. After all, you go into an area where a corporation probably has too many homes, buy private homes and convert them into social housing. That is allowed; it is not prohibited. It seems like an expensive occupation, because the bill ends up with the low-income tenants. Here too, a euro can be spent once. So it's okay. I don't know if it's logical, with the reduction of the landlord's tax. Once again, I really want to include in the evaluation all the options that are on the table here. Mr De Vries also had a request concerning shrinkage regions and the landlord levy, but I do not want to pull all these loose ends right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u184	For example, these are houses in Kerkrade. They cost €60,000. That's a halfway house where you can put a family in. So it's not an expensive solution. It must only be profitable for a corporation to do so. You then help to reduce the waiting list, which exists there for social housing, just like in Venlo. So they're not expensive homes and they're not expensive solutions. The corporation does this in consultation with banks and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u185	If they are very cheap houses, it can be paid financially, but that does not mean that I have to say that we are going to change the landlord's tax immediately. I have now received a whole bunch of proposals in this one debate. And here too, the same euro can only be spent once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u186	I would like to clarify, because I agree with the story of Mr Van Vliet. I asked for this in my first term. In Groningen there is the Groningen Kollen initiative; the Minister also writes about this. But also in Limburg and Zeeuws-Vlaanderen there are plans as Mr Van Vliet describes. The Minister writes in the answer that he is willing to promote knowledge sharing, but knowledge sharing makes no sense if those business cases are not feasible. The real question is: is the Minister willing to look at their plans with the three provinces? They have really great ideas there, with closing business cases provided there is no landlord charge to pay. We're not going to file a motion that says he has to; we're just asking if he's willing to look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u187	I regularly sit around the table with the shrinking regions, just to have concrete business cases on the table and to count on them. So I'm going to do that immediately, and let's include the outcome in the evaluation of the landlord's tax. I come to the questions about the state service. Mr Koolmees asked about reports on the ABP and the collective agreement. First of all, I am very pleased that there is a collective agreement after a long period without a collective agreement in which we have asked a great deal of officials. A great effort is being made, again at the moment. I would have preferred a collective agreement with all the unions, but there is a collective agreement, with a nice wage increase. The messages referred to by Mr Koolmees have come out in the form of leaks. I understand that the ABP has responded to this again. In such a leaking phase, I find it difficult to respond to this, but I can confirm that last week I signed the collective agreement for the Empire with the unions. That's the part I'm talking about. At the end of October, we will pay the new salaries. Mr Van der Linde asked when the ICT Examination Office would start one of the most important recommendations of the Elias Committee. The Bureau has started work and tests are now being carried out and people are being recruited. At the end of this year, the Bureau will be fully operational and I expect to be able to send the first public and final BIT tests to the Chamber. I come to the questions of Mr Koolmees and Mr Bishop about the Binnenhof. I will try to outline it in the right political context. I don't have a huge ambition to build large buildings or build buildings expensively. I am happy to manage the real estate portfolio and consider myself a keeper of the many beautiful and special buildings that are part of it. However, I think it is my job and also a Dutch tradition to do this soberly and efficiently and nothing more than that. The fact that the Binnenhof needs to be renovated was already established by the National Real Estate Company in 2010 when the Rijksbouwbouwsdienst was established as well as the users. At the time, it was agreed with Minister Van der Laan that this process should be started. Then it turned out to be difficult. Not clear on the table what was now the wishes of the users and of course the environment also plays a role. The employees who work day in, day out and often until the small hours, also play a major role as well as the always scarce finances. For this reason, I have asked former Minister Spies to sit down with all the users and map out the wishes. In addition, the legal requirements play a role, such as the demand for good employership and fire safety. Moreover, it is a special and very intensively used building and thus the user requirements, the legal requirements and, of course, the financial possibilities play a major role. In the process all users were represented. At a somewhat later stage, the Chamber also set up the Construction Guidance Committee, which has also been involved. As many questions as possible were asked at that stage and answered in the form of reports that reach man-high on the Internet, as Mr Bishop says. Those are research questions and counterexpertises. They also asked if it could be faster, if it could be more sober and if it could be otherwise. The picture showed that the most sober option that meets the requirements of safety and use is the option I outlined in the letter to the Chamber. Of course, I am open to investigations that can give even greater clarity as to whether those parts are not yet covered, but I would ask the Court to do so very carefully. We need to avoid going into very unfocused investigations, because many questions have already been examined. Now I know that a technical briefing will take place, in which the authors of the investigations and the external experts will be present. I would therefore ask the Chamber, after the technical briefing, to make clear which questions are open, of course preferably through the Building Guidance Committee, because then the Chamberwide questions will be asked. Again, I am ready to answer questions immediately, because it is a large and costly project. However, the questions must be well formulated so that we do not go back and find out what we had already asked for from such an expensive agency. Here too, the euros must be spent economically and at most once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u188	Then let me try to put the question sharply and clearly. The passive public documents which have been kept confidential for inspection show a defect in the process of making an independent assessment which I, as a Member of Parliament, have to make for the journey and the extent of that journey. There are parts of these targeted to: short and with an empty building, then it can be delivered for that amount, although there are also all kinds of costs. My question is, therefore, also with a view to the technical briefing, to provide the Court with the information necessary to enable it to take a stand on its own. What size do we want to choose? Which route do we want to choose? What length of time do we want to accept? Is the Minister prepared to do so? This could greatly facilitate the decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u189	The Chamber shall receive the information the Chamber considers necessary. I think it is right for the process to ask the questions specifically in the technical briefing, because there it is possible to tighten up what research has been done. Moreover, I dispute that a certain direction would have been sent in advance. If all the expert reports had come out that a longer-term renovation was justified and affordable in stages, I would have sent the Chamber that we would choose that option, which is apparently the most affordable and responsible. Now that this option has emerged from all these studies, I think it is logical that, because of security and affordability, I say that this option is on top. I fully recognise that in the technical briefing and then in a public debate, the Chamber can ask for all the information it needs. I hope, however, that Mr Bishop understands from me that it will help to go further in the technical briefing first. It is therefore necessary to formulate follow-up questions on the basis of which they are based.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u190	Thank you for this approach. I understand that, but the technical briefing will show that there is a need to make an independent assessment by the Chamber. The Chamber must be able to do so. Which route is the most desirable? The material that is currently provided does not give the Chamber that opportunity. That seeks to guide those who are aware of this towards this one option. That is not the stage in which I believe the Chamber is at the moment. I would therefore like to broaden the scope of this technical briefing so that the options can be put on the table. From there, the Minister must try to take the Chamber into his own choice. That may not be the Minister's position, but we'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u191	Again, I am not trying to lead this in a particular direction, because I would have liked another result from the studies. However, I must be able to explain to the Chamber, to the taxpayer, to the other users and to the environment why a particular option is being chosen. Once again, additional information is provided without problems, even if additional research is needed. Since other remodeling variants have been investigated, I think it is important that in such a technical briefing good questions come up. What other variants are there? Do I see it correctly that a particular expert has reached a certain conclusion? And why is that? After that phase, we can then map out what we want to know before the Chamber can make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u192	Thanks for the answer. I think it is a workable solution to have a technical briefing and to ask all the specific questions. I very much agree with Mr Bishop. The variations that now exist are for a total displacement of five and a half years and for the amount of 475 million. However, the Court also needs the cost estimate and the distinction between what is really necessary because of legal safety requirements and what is added to that and nice to have. That's not in all those pieces. I agree with Mr Bishop that this leads to one conclusion, namely this variant. Can this information also be made available to the Chamber at the technical briefing, so that we can make an informed choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u193	You need to be able to get that information. At cost, I'm afraid, I always have to ask for confidentiality, because the contractor agrees. However, I think the question is perfectly logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u194	I find that last point difficult: the contractor reads along. There hasn't been any tender yet. I think it is a good idea to invite contractors to think with us, precisely by making these documents public and by asking the question: can it be cheaper or better? Furthermore, the pieces lack the option to simply maintain, so not to remodel the building, but simply to maintain it. That option is not mentioned at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u195	I really have to advise the Chamber not to disclose estimates of construction costs, because this is a matter of great commercial interest. Unfortunately, it is not unusual in the case of construction procurement to say first that it can be for a lower amount and then to force rabbits out of the hat in the form of high bills. So you will always have to make a very critical assessment of what is needed. Again, this can be made available in confidence. The question of whether it can be done in the form of smaller maintenance is very logical, but must be put in such a technical briefing. In fact, this question was already on the table in 2010 when it was widely decided that there was a need for a major renovation. However, this does not mean that this question should be made more critical. Again, on the basis of the documents, I have come to this well-founded consideration. However, I do think that we can take a critical look at all the questions and ask supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u196	Of course, the budget is already public, because 475 million is now being budgeted for the whole joke. That's almost half a billion. Building contractors can see that, of course. Apparently, that's what the House of Representatives or the government wants to spend on the renovation. So I don't agree with this. I believe that we should invite the business community to look at whether there are smarter and more cost-effective ways of maintaining this property. That is why I am once again asking whether an option has been worked out to simply carry out necessary maintenance and no more than that. That option is not on the table right now. I specifically ask the Minister to put that option on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u197	I would also ask that this be put before the technical briefing. This remains separate from the decision-making process, in which it was said in 2010 that this is not a logical option. It is very good to discuss the technical consequences again in a technical briefing. As a contracting party, you will always have to make an estimate of your own, whether it be the House of Representatives, a bridge or whatever kind of building. I fear that we have learned from many major projects that we should not have too great optimism about the possibility of reducing costs and also about what the market can offer. Name and reputation contractors in the Netherlands got into serious problems because they registered in a way they couldn't live up to. This means that you always have to make your own, serious assessment. Then you have to actually make public the part that you can make public and share the other part inside with the Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u198	Does this mean that the Minister also wants to steer the cheaper variant? Of that 475 million, an amount is reserved. The Arcadis report draws up a number of variants, but without costs and without their consequences. I asked yesterday to develop a cheaper variant for the debate. I like to hear more about what's behind it and what's under it in the technical briefing. Some variants have been explored. Is the Minister prepared to work out such a cheaper variant with the consequences for that debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u199	There are cheaper variants developed and they are also included in the reports with the consequences. Hence my proposal: first, explain why these variants apparently fell off in the eyes of the experts and more precisely what variant still needs to be calculated. I would be happy to have such a variant examined, but the question has to be more focused because cheaper variants have already been passed on and this has also been shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u200	I can imagine that this is an important subject for everyone, but I insist that we conclude this slowly but surely. Once again, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u201	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. This is only my second interruption. I appeal to your kindness; it is famous, so it must succeed. What is currently passively publicly available? A report Validation Renovation Binnenhof including addendum Validation Renovation Binnenhof van Twynstra Gudde and a second report by Arcadis. In addition, some casco studies and things like that, but no information that currently allows the members of the Chamber to consider the extent to which the renovation is needed and which list of wishes is added. In my opinion, colleagues' questions are aimed at this: give the Chamber, as early as possible, preferably before the technical briefing, the possibility of orienting itself on the various variants. I am referring not only to the variants within a variant of the product, i.e.: this is the whole package, this must be it, and we can organise it and so on, but also on the alternatives. I want to know what happens if we don't do this. I'd like to receive that additional information with that confidential package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u202	The Chamber shall receive all information that is available and which it considers necessary. Once again, having additional investigations carried out just like that would be a waste of money. We need very specific forms which questions are in addition to the investigation that has already been carried out and in which questions from the Chamber have been included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u203	If that information has already been provided and the investigations have already been carried out, perhaps a few years ago, then it should not be a problem to add it to the information now available. That is what needs to be done; that is what I belong to my fellow Members as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u204	The room gets all the information there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u205	I understand that the Minister has come to the end of his speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u206	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u207	Mr. Chairman. I'm just as excited about a sandwich as you are, but there are two questions that haven't been answered. Perhaps the Minister would like to take it with him in the second term. The first question is whether the Minister is prepared to continue monitoring the results of the Compact National Service Implementation Programme at aggregated level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u208	The answer to that question is yes. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u209	That's good. The second question concerns the coherence between the housing of the Court of Justice Council and the National Housing Master Plan, which will be updated next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u210	In addition, it is laid down by law that the separation of powers, the trias politician, also applies to the housing of the judiciary. The judiciary therefore has its own housing. This is provided for in the Law on the Judicial Organisation. If the Chamber wants to change this, the law must therefore be amended. That means I can't influence the content of those decisions. I've sent this to the Chamber before. After all, I would go beyond the boundaries of the trias politician. I can, however, at the moment when the judiciary takes decisions, it also happens sometimes in other state services with an independent responsibility, whether we can compensate for something in the housing of the state services that I am talking about. All this in the knowledge that the over-all-movement is smaller. Compensating will therefore more often take the form of less less than that something really comes up. However, in substance, I cannot refer to the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u211	The literal question was: see the Minister's possibilities to enter into consultation with his colleague from the Justice Department. I'm just explaining this as a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u212	The Member of the Court of Justice cannot direct this directly to the judiciary either, because all this has been cut off in the context of the trias politicians. That consultation is there, but that relates to the follow-up consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u213	I have a final question in the first term. The subject has just been mentioned in passing: smoke detectors. The minister said he thinks fire safety is very important. The written answer did not really go into this and I would therefore like to draw attention to this. During this period, many companies and people are busy putting together their sintering and Christmas packages. If we go in the direction of an obligation, which I would be strong for, then perhaps it could be added to the sintering and Christmas packages. So maybe the minister can tell us if he thinks we're going that way after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u214	I'm not yet in the Sinterklaas and Christmas atmosphere, but I'm not in the obligation sphere. We have had extensive research on it because the subject is important enough for that. An obligation is also a very radical decision. Then again, the question is how to enforce it and how to control it. The subject is important enough to come back to it in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u215	Is the Minister aware that in the countries around us the number of cases has fallen by 40%, thanks precisely to such an obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u216	We are also looking at the experience in other countries, of course, but Mr Krol is now drawing a very quick conclusion that I am not yet able to draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u217	I have missed an important point in replying to the Minister, and that is the block of energy. The Minister has all answered the questions in writing. I find that special, also in view of the fact that a few hours ago the National Energy Exploratory report revealed that the task was not being achieved and that the problem was mainly related to energy saving in the built-up environment, for which this minister is also responsible. Can the Minister indicate whether he thinks he is going to get the task from the energy cord on his plate and, if not, what he is going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u218	A number of questions have been deliberately answered in writing because at the end of the debate you always have such a moment as this that the President is going to look hard and yet you want to answer all the issues; I do indeed do so a bit bundled by subject. That is why the energy questions have been answered in this way. I, too, read in the newspaper that there would be another leaked report, but as with Mr Koolmees' question on ABP, I am not going to respond to all kinds of leaked reports here. The Chamber is informed about the reports in question, and that is the time to discuss them with the reports on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u219	I do not want to be very faint, but the fact that this minister is doing away with all the important questions in writing does indicate what priority he is giving them. I am not asking for a response to a leaked report that we ourselves have not been able to see. I only asked the Minister whether he was convinced that he was going to get his job and, if not, what he was going to do to achieve that acceleration. It seems to me that the Minister can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u220	The interruption started a little bit with a conspiracy theory. If I were standing here an hour before the scheduled time without the text of the speech, it would be true that I made an incorrect assessment of the issues that have been answered orally and in writing. I really have to say that there were a lot of questions on the subjects I discussed and that they were also at the heart of the debate. I had to make a cut somewhere, and I made it on this subject, among other things. I am not going out of the loose wrist now, because there is a possible leak in the newspaper, presorting on how the energy agreement will work out in my field. We are going to have a deliberate investigation of it, and when the results are on the table, we are going to talk about it. That is also an orderly decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u221	In my first term, I raised the issue of grant-freedom and asked the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u222	Mr Ronnes is right about that. He'd like to get that exemption a year earlier. I think we would all like that, but the budget has taken it into account that it will start from 2017. It is in the Tax Plan, by the way, so it does not concern money in my budget. So I don't have any money in my sights for Mr Wiebes to do that earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u223	We believe that we can amend that neutrally in the budget. So we will table an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u224	Yes, that's the right of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u225	In the second term, we came back to energy saving, but I had also asked a question yesterday about student debt and mortgage standards that I know have not yet been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u226	Yes, Mr Koolmees' question was whether it is right that the study debt should be as heavy in the first year of repayment as it was at the end. In purely monthly burden terms, that makes sense. It's an annuity interest deduction, so the amount is equal. In financial regulation, we have stipulated that a bank, a funder, may take into account future income developments. So if, at the time of granting a mortgage, the student debt still runs for two or three years, then a financier may take that into account and assume that this can be bridged to the left or right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u227	I know. The point is that this is bad in practice. In the second term, I will table a motion, so that we can get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u228	I have one more point on energy saving. I have also expressed my concern as to whether the objectives of the energy agreement will be achieved. I have therefore also proposed that additional measures be taken. My concrete proposal was to explicitly include the energy label in the WPA value. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u229	This option has even been on the table when discussing the energy agreement, but has not reached the list of measures because it is very far-reaching. It is far-reaching for the public that can be faced with a tax increase, regardless of whether people are able to pay isolation measures. Think of older people who have their own home that has been paid back, but who have no income to make additional investments. Of course there is also the tax of the Tax Administration, which has been discussed before. For both reasons, this proposal did not reach the energy agreement at the time. I have no reason to take a different view on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u230	The reason could be that the energy agreement targets are not being met. There will then be opportunities, especially in the area of this Minister, for additional measures to be taken. So that could be a reason. The second point concerns the appearance of energy exploration. That would initially happen today. From the written answer, I understand that this will be tomorrow. Is the play really gonna be in the room tomorrow? Then my colleague who is talking about this knows that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u231	The first question is for research which apparently sings around in correct or incorrect form. That's not what I'm going to presort for. The investigations are coming to the Chamber in the short term, but I can't predict the exact moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-3.u232	That brings us to the end of the Prime Minister's first term. I shall suspend the sitting so that we can have lunch and discuss possible motions.
