ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome all those present, the people in the Chamber, the public gallery and those who follow this debate in a different way. I would also like to welcome the cabinet section of the cabinet, the initiator, Mrs Kuik, and her support, Mr Christiaan Winkel. On behalf of the cabinet, I welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is present today in his role as advisor to the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr De Love of the VVD in the first term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Kuik. She has spent a lot of time and energy trying to solve and remove an irritation that we will all recognize. I'm also annoying paying for parking time I don't use. You'd say you have to pay by the minute. There can't be a human being against that. Unfortunately, however sympathetic the aim is, the way in which Mr Chicken is trying to remove this annoyance is not the right one for us. She shoots a cannon at a mosquito. The problem that Mrs Kuik wants to solve is that about 60,000 of the 1.3 million paid parking spaces in the Netherlands are affected. That's about 5%. It's like when your attic window's broken. You solve the problem by tearing down your house and rebuilding it. What about the autonomy of municipalities, their independence and the confidence we have in local democracy? How consistent is it if you transfer a lot of powers with one hand and take control of part of the parking policy with the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr.De Love speaks about the extent of the problems and says that it plays at only 60,000 places. Where did he come up with that? Can he back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u4	Yes, I can support that on the basis of the figures I have received from, among other things, the VNG, a parking consulting agency and the commercial car parks in the Netherlands. The figures are on my desk and I am happy to give them to Mr Hoogland so that he can see them himself. However, I believe that both Mrs Kikken and Mr Hoogland have the same dates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u5	I ask because Mr.De Love may refer to the possibilities to pay with an app for parking, where you pay per minute. Does he realize that this means that people have to incur additional costs, namely that they have to subscribe or purchase an app, pay texts or log in? Those are certainly additional costs. Does Mr. Love mean those users? He chases them at extra cost because they have to use an app.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u6	No, I don't mean those users. I'm talking about the users of the 120,000 parking spaces in the garages, but you don't have to pay for all those 120,000 parking spaces per hour. There are also lots of garages where you can pay per minute, per two minutes or per 5, 6 or 10 minutes and do not have to pay per hour. As we have calculated, this plays specifically at about 60,000 of those 120,000 parking spaces in garages where pay is still made per hour. Isn't the cure much worse than the ailment? Our assessment is that Mr Kuik achieves the opposite of what she is aiming at, namely that 1.3 million parking people will be more expensive. In short, a sympathetic proposal, but still I had to think about that silly joke: is it policy or has it been considered? Let's be clear that I'm not against paying parking per minute. Far from it, even. Although garages and municipalities charge per second, I'm fine with it. We all agree in this house the goal, namely to take away the annoyance over paying for parking minutes that you do not use. But the VVD disagrees with the author on how. Let's zoom in on the how. I've just indicated a few things in an interruption, but I'm starting from the top. There are 10 million parking spaces in the Netherlands. By far most are free. At 1.2 million places you have to pay on the street and there are about 120,000 parking spaces in garages where you have to pay. The annoyance that Mrs. Kuik wants to take away occurs at the garages; not on the street. There are already the necessary garages that pay per minute or per 5, 6, 10 or 15 minutes allow. The majority of the garages, according to the figures, use time units of less than 30 minutes. Is legislation, which is, after all, a heavy instrument, really necessary? No, this is, as far as we're concerned, shooting a cannon at a mosquito. Mrs Kuik's proposal is ineffective and the additional damage is greater than the intended profit. The medicine is worse than the ailment. These proposals only work when paying for parking afterwards, so in garages. For parking on the street, this proposal doesn't change anything. Motorists who now pay with coins or debit cards will have to continue to pay in advance. They make an estimate of how long they put the car somewhere on the street: 39 minutes, 1.5 hours? These parkers make that estimate and pay in advance. Mr Kuik's proposals do not therefore benefit the 1.2 million drivers who park on the street every day. For street car parkers who pay by phone or with an app, it doesn't make any difference either. They already pay afterwards, per second, per minute or per currency. The Chicken Cannon shoots at 1.3 million parkers, but the annoying mosquito is only 60,000 parking spaces large.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u7	The VVD uses really nice, big words: the medicine is worse than the ailment, the Chicken Cannon. I'm sure the VVD-spin doctor did a great job on that. Whoever pays in advance on the street for that one five-minute message we probably all know must always pay for 20 minutes. I can tell you that could be in the papers. A study carried out by the ANWB shows that the people who pay up to one and a half hours would indeed be cheaper. Then the trick with numbers is a bit tricky. What does Mr. Love do with the fact that the people who have to pay in advance are always stuck for 20 minutes or half an hour? He doesn't have an answer for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u8	Few places in the Netherlands are known to me where you have a minimum of 20 minutes if you pay in advance at a vending machine on the street. It may be a currency of a dime, 20 cents, or maybe even 50 cents, but 20 minutes of compulsory advance payment on the street I don't know any examples. Perhaps the SP Group has these examples on paper and can identify the relevant locations in the cities. Now I'm going into the ANWB numbers. Indeed, the ANWB indicates in a table, which has been sent to many of the colleagues present here, that the turning point, as the ANWB calls it, is above the average parking time of 90 minutes. That figure of 90 minutes was given to the ANWB by Retailers Netherlands. I have called Retailer Netherlands and asked on the basis of what facts and figures one came up with on the average of one and a half hours. Turns out what? Retailers The Netherlands has no figures for this or support for it. It's an assessment. For the past four years, Retailers Netherlands had an estimate of 60 minutes. The organization has now made that 90 minutes. That 90-minute period is intended to make the rates in the garages they are investigating comparable. I understand that, but there's no numbers underneath it. I have received figures from other parties. A parking consulting firm assumes an average of 1 hour and 45 minutes throughout the Netherlands. I checked with the VNG and a number of municipalities. The average parking time in Rotterdam is 1 hour and 52 minutes; in Arnhem at 2 hours and 55 minutes; in Amersfoort at 3 hours; in Nijmegen at 2 hours and 30 minutes; in Maastricht, depending on the location, at 3 to 5 hours. I once introduced those averages into the ANWB's taps. Then the turning point is at very different times and you're going to pay more per minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u9	That's assuming an increase, like the ANWB did. It already assumed an increase of 25%. Of course, that does not have to be the case. We will also ask questions about this to the author. However, I notice that the VVD is talking about averages. Of course, it's also about people who park briefly. This proposal is made on the assumption that you park briefly and then pay a lot. It would be a credit to Mr De Love to emphasize that, especially since it is about own-initiative legislation. In her reply, the applicant will undoubtedly refer to all the figures mentioned by Mr.De Love. She'll have them, too, and she'll probably be able to refute them. However, this concerns the short-term car parker who pays too high a price. From the VVD Group I expected a little more that she would be on the side of that parking lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u10	To be precise: it is about the short-term car parker who pays too much in the garage and not in the street, because that is not what this problem is about. You don't pay afterwards on the street, except maybe with an app or via a text message. Basically, you simply pay with an ATM card or throw a few coins into the vending machine. I can already see Mr Hoogland walking to the interrupting microphone to repeat his question. I'll answer it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u11	I was flabbergasted for a moment by the answer just now. That's why I'm gonna try again. It's also about parking on the street. That's 35 million a year. It's about people who pay for a service they don't use. I know the VVD as a party in favour of tax cuts. In a formal sense, this is a parking tax. There's a hand-out now. Why doesn't the VVD go along with that? It's not always about big amounts. In Amsterdam, for example, people throw an average of 11% too much into the meter to be safe and not get a fine. There is €1.83 per transaction there. Do that a few times and you can do nice groceries. So can Mr. Love explain why he totally ignores this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u12	Because the situation that Mr Hoogland is describing cannot be solved by introducing a law for paying per minute. As I said earlier, the driver pays in advance. He makes an estimate of the time during which he has to park his car in Amsterdam, in Assen, in Hoogeveen or anywhere else. He'll pay in advance. He does it himself. He throws coins in the vending machine himself. He himself puts his ATM card in the vending machine and settles for a certain period of time. This bill does not provide a solution for the driver who returns earlier and has unused minutes. The driver himself made that assessment and settled it on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u13	I've just tried it on the macro level. I'm going to the microlevel now. Let's say I'm coming to Amsterdam. I'll buy an evening ticket there that starts at 8:00. However, I will be there at 7 p.m. Buying parking for an hour won't do, because I can't buy a ticket by the hour. I can't buy a ticket per minute. So I always end up at more than an hour. In short, I pay too much. I pay a regular ticket until a few minutes after 20.00 and then my evening ticket only goes in. That's the problem. That's all put together about a lot of money. What does Mr. Love say to those people who pay too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u14	I can imagine that there is a great deal of annoyance about certain parking regimes and parking rates in various cities. I agree that the rates in Amsterdam are considerable and that some constructs and systems are complicated and perhaps unnecessarily expensive. However, do we have to arrange this from this house or do we entrust it to the local council? I note that the Labour Party has been represented for many decades in the city council and also in the college in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u15	The big problem with the PVV is that the rates are getting even higher. I'll make a proposal in a moment. The same retailer, the Netherlands, has found that the inner cities are drained, in particular because of the high parking rates. We will, if necessary, table a motion to ensure that parking rates are up to €1 per hour. How does Mr. Love feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u16	I know that the PVV is not represented in many municipal councils in the Netherlands, but I recommend that Mr Graus submit such motions in the municipal councils where the PVV is represented. I think parking policy belongs at the local level, so in the city council. That doesn't belong in the Lower House. I understand where Mr Graus' idea is coming from, but that does not belong in this house, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u17	Retailers The Netherlands is really calling the bell about this. Moreover, municipalities often use high parking rates to close gaps in their budgets. That's the whole story. Mr. Love knows that, too. It doesn't matter whether we're represented or not. There must be intervention by the Chamber. We have the highest office here. We can always intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u18	I do indeed owe Mr Graus a response to the findings of Retailers Netherlands. This organisation places a strong emphasis on the level of parking charges as a reason why people no longer visit shopping malls. I believe that this plays a role for a number of consumers, but I think that the Internet, the web shopping, also plays a very important role in the decline in the number of people visiting shopping centres. So it's not as black and white as Retailers sketches the Netherlands. But I acknowledge that it is one of the possible reasons. I will continue my speech. Municipalities are autonomous. One of the things that municipalities themselves regulate is traffic policy. Easy or difficult to drive into the city, as few traffic jams as possible, a car-low center; these can all be goals. Parking policy is part of traffic policy. Municipalities control the behaviour of motorists by, for example, making parking outside the city free, by making parking in the city centre expensive, by a certain rate setting, by a maximum parking time or by handling certain time units. In The Hague, therefore, we should not interfere with the parking policy of Oldenzaal, of Assen or of Texel. By introducing national parking per minute, Mrs. Kuik wants to take away one of the buttons that municipalities can turn to. Is the problem really so big that we as a national government have to overrule municipalities? I would like to ask Mrs Kuik, but also Mr Plasterk, Mrs Kuik's adviser. The parking market is very diverse and varies considerably from one municipality to another. There is no "one size fits all" approach. Measuring and diversity, that's important. Not a central straitjacket in The Hague, but believe in the common sense of our fellow people's representatives in the town hall. The real annoyance number 1 of motorists is the level of the parking rate. The proposals before us do not address this greatest annoyance. With these proposals, it is not a question of whether parking rates will increase, but of how much they will increase. With these proposals, we are in the rain. Higher parking rates on the street due to the influence of the House of Representatives! That can't be the point of this house, can it? Supporters of these laws will then be co-responsible for potentially higher parking rates in many municipalities. In short, parking policy does not belong in the Chamber but in the Town Hall. If people want a different parking policy, they have to vote in the voting booth at the provincial or municipal elections. Nor is there any basis for us to introduce a law regulating the private parking market. According to the ACM, there is no market failure. I'm not familiar with any cartel agreements either. Public intervention in the market must therefore be handled with caution. The parking market does not function perfectly everywhere. I, too, am annoyed by paying for unused minutes, but with this law, Mrs. Kuik is trading one annoyance for another. The expectation of VNG, Parking Consultancy Office Spark and some large car park operators is that many municipalities and private operators face lower parking revenues. How does Mrs. Kuiken estimate the risk of tariff increases? She is familiar with the dates of the ANWB, the VNG and the other parties I mentioned. At the end of last year, the municipality of Haarlem examined whether payment by minute could be introduced at the request of the city council. In Haarlem there was a loss of sales of 1 million euros. If the municipality were to leave the rate unchanged, it would have to save EUR 1 million elsewhere or increase the burden. This is the kind of issue that local authorities have to deal with thanks to Mrs. Kuik's proposals for legislation. What's she gonna say to these congregations when they report to her? Private parties may recoup investments. They can also make a profit in this country. I'm assuming Mrs. Kikkie will leave that entrepreneurial freedom alone. It's gonna be a little bit more difficult to take on by these laws of Mrs. Kuik. As a result, parking garages are likely to increase their hourly rates, precisely in order to compensate for the loss of turnover. Municipalities with an active parking policy will then have to follow with a rate increase for street parking. Most municipalities want to keep cars and search traffic from the streets. These proposals distort the local parking policy and, we fear, lead to price increases for street parking, which is not a problem at all, as I mentioned in the interrupting debates. After all, the problem is only in garages. How does Mrs. Kuik look at this? Isn't it better to exclude street parking from these legislative proposals? It makes it unnecessarily more expensive for many of the 1.3 million daily street parkers to park, while the problem it is trying to fight does not play there. I understand from the correspondence with Mrs Kuik in the written preparation that she accepts that, in the case of payments with coins, her proposal can be deviated from and that a unit of 10 cents is also accepted. As far as she's concerned, does that also apply to paying by phone or app? In addition, parking per minute, we fear, will yield very strange prices. How much does it cost you to park 43 minutes at a rate of 5,833 cents? This has been converted €3,5 per hour. Those 43 minutes would thus cost around €2.50. Can municipalities and private operators continue to communicate with hourly rates if it is up to Ms. Kuik? I had already gone over the figures of the ANWB. I would also like to hear the reaction of the applicant to those figures from the ANWB and the average used by Retailers in the Netherlands, which is not based on figures. I'm gonna close up with what I started. I would like to sincerely thank Mrs Kuik for the commitment she has made. I am sympathetic to the fight against the annoyance that I sometimes experience, but we cannot support the proposed solution in this first period. The cure here is worse than the ailment. Unfortunately, with this proposal, we are going to be not only an annoyance poorer but also quite a few euros poorer. Do we really think that municipalities should be placed under curately when they have more responsibilities than ever before? I look forward to answering these questions by Mr Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with what Mr De Love started with, namely the compliments to Mrs Kuik of the PvdA Group for taking up this glove. I myself once had the pleasure and had to make the effort to get an initiative proposal through the Lower House and then the Upper House. That was an initiative bill that has some parallels with this bill. It was about the opening hours of shops on Sunday. In doing so, D66 chose the solution to lay it down with municipalities; on this later more. Let me say first of all that it is nice when Dutch MPs take the trouble to fill in their role as co-legislator. That's what Mrs. Chicken did. No matter what you think of this bill, I think she deserves praise for it. In fact, she has tabled two legislative proposals, which we are dealing with at the same time. One is about municipalities and the other is about private parking companies with their garages. Let me say first of all that the principle of paying by usage, paying for what you have taken is a principle with which, I think, almost the entire House of Representatives will agree. To take the example of mobile telephony, we have always worked together with the Labour Party to ensure that providers are unable to complete the call minutes. The idea of paying per minute, according to usage, is a logical and sensible idea. You would actually want people to be able to pay per second or millisecond; to the smallest possible, imaginable and palpable unit. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, the minute is small enough as a unit. As far as I am concerned, that is not the problem. What I have a little more concern about is actually three points. Unlike Mr De Love, I do see the problem that Mrs Kuik is describing. However, I find the chosen solution of the Labour Party, which has tabled this legislative initiative, somewhat more difficult on a number of points. The first point is to throw public and private garages into one pile. Centralisation is chosen for subjects where you could also opt for local autonomy. It concerns in particular the role of the municipality. The second point is that this bill ignores technology and practice on a number of points. There is progressing technology, which will solve a lot of the problems that exist today. There are also practical situations in which this law will ultimately not lead to the solution that Mrs Kuik wants. I'll go into that later. The third point is that we think there is also a gap in this law. I think Mrs Kuik will be able to put that into her first-term response, but I will put it forward in my contribution. The first point is also the most important one as far as D66 is concerned. We are going to impose on municipalities from above how to deal with their payment rates and units. Municipalities apply parking rates because they can steer the space that is often scarce, especially in urban areas. Through the parking rates you can influence the use of space. Each municipality has a different pressure on public space, so each municipality will want to use these rates in a different way. This causes the differences in the level of the rates that are always there. I've called a number of aldermen and councilmen from our party in different cities to ask what's going on with them. There are all kinds of different regimes. Actually, it's different from one city to another. To mention some examples of larger municipalities: here in The Hague you pay per unit of 10 cents. So this is an amount unit and not a time unit. In cities like Utrecht and Amsterdam, but also in many cities in Noord-Brabant, you already pay per minute. Especially if you park on the street, there is the possibility to pay per minute via the app. In some municipalities you pay every 5 or 7 minutes if you pay via the meter, but via the mobile phone you can already pay per minute. In Rotterdam you pay every nine minutes. That is exactly what Mrs Kuik is talking about, because that is what will be completed if you have not used exactly those 9 minutes. The question is of course what you do now in case you pay per 10 cents. If the minute becomes the unit and 10 cents is the minimum, you must have a minimum rate of €6 per hour. You can't sit lower and then make it possible to pay per minute. This would mean that the rates would have to rise enormously in order to implement Mrs. Kuik's law. That is absolutely not her intention, I think, but it is a consequence in practice. How does she deal with the municipalities where you pay per unit of amount, in this case the minimum of 10 cents? Another point is that many municipalities would have to set up new devices by this law. That would lead to all sorts of costs. How does Mrs. Chicken deal with that problem? I quote the municipalities and the situation in the municipalities to show that there is a large variation. That variation is a great thing. I know very well that business organisations, such as Royal Horeca Netherlands, SMEs Netherlands, Retailers Netherlands and the ANWB, say: that's very good, because you just want to have centrally arranged that there can be paid per minute. However, local democracy, the position of the city council, is a very important aspect. Because if you think there's another way to settle or finish in your municipality, you can just tell the city council and make sure that city council takes action to get that started. We do that in many areas. This cabinet decentralises all kinds of important tasks to municipalities, because the government has confidence in the municipalities. At the time, D66 introduced the initiative legislative proposal on shopping hours. I always had a discussion about this with Mr Dijkgraaf, because he said: you just want to shop more on Sundays. I said no, I want more power to the municipalities so that they can match the wishes and the specific situation on their territory. D66 considers local autonomy important. The passing of the city council therefore does not think D66 is wise. Local democracy must really be at the forefront. As far as we are concerned, centralising all kinds of issues from The Hague is not a sensible direction. I would like to receive a response from Mrs Kuik on this matter of principle. The second point I would like to make is the question of technology. There are more and more possibilities to pay per small payment unit, and therefore better to use. That's Yellowbrick, Parkmobile and APP-Parking. So there are all kinds of forms that make it possible to pay more and more accurately for what you've used. However, you have to be careful that you use a law to settle something that is ultimately solved by advanced technology. During the examination of the budget for Economic Affairs, D66 called on Minister Kamp to modernise legislation, as it became obsolete on all fronts because of the technology that has progressed. Deprecated laws are often a liability to us. We run into borders and barriers that we suffer from and which we say: what a shame that is, we have all kinds of initiatives from the bottom up of society and they are blocked by outdated national laws. My fear is that we are now adopting a law which, although it has a high level of sympathy, has been blocking the progress of technology in a few years' time. Or the law is going to overlap with the technology, which makes it totally unnecessary to introduce it. As Mr. Love pointed out: if you don't enter it, you don't have the disadvantages either. My question to Mrs Kuik is whether you should be careful when introducing a law that is already obsolete when it comes into force. We can see that progress is being made on many fronts and that the problem has quickly diminished in recent years. We also see that, under pressure from municipal councils, smaller rounding units are already being used in many parking garages. Doesn't the law become a liability because the problem has already been solved? The third point concerns tariffs. Many people do say that rates will rise. As far as I am concerned, it is important that there is transparency. I can even imagine that people don't mind that they might have to pay a little more if they can estimate in advance what they're going to have to pay. I do not think this is the most important argument, but it is something we should look at. After all, many people will say: we simply want lower rates. Is the purpose of this law that people are going to pay less? Or is Mrs Kuik so real to see that there will be a redistribution? If there is a redistribution of payments, we come to the turning point and the question of who is going to pay more and less. How does Mrs. Chicken see that? You can do it even wider. If municipalities have to incur new costs or have less parking revenues, they may be looking for it outside parking revenues, for example in the OZB. That's another way of redistributing. In her reply in the first period, can Mrs Kuik refer to redistributing both within parking costs and more in width, namely in terms of the total revenue of municipalities in different areas? I think it will lead to a redistribution. The question is whether this redistribution is desirable, for example for entrepreneurs who always get angry about the increase in OZB. If that OZB rise is a result of parking charges, it's just a pocket pocket. It is then a question of pumping money around, and that is something entrepreneurs do not like. As far as private operators are concerned, action has already been taken in many municipalities by municipal councils that want the garages on their territory to operate with lower units. Then you no longer have the traditional problem that you have parked 61 minutes and pay for 120 minutes. So that's already being solved in part. In addition, doesn't Mrs. Kuik think that this will again be a matter of passing on to the customer? Along another road, the costs will still be the same. If parking operators earn less because they can't finish, they'll throw the rates up. That will be the result almost immediately. The question is whether this is desirable. I would also like to hear a reaction to that. I'm here to pay in advance or in advance. It is true that on the street you make an assessment of how long you stay. I think that in very few cases you can make that assessment so precise that you are harmed by the fact that there is a rounding. It will be very often that you make that assessment yourself and that you then turn out to have twenty minutes left, or that you run out just a short while to throw in some more. I think those margins are greater than the rounding margins. Finally, the hole that we think we have seen in the law. It's not such a big law, then maybe you can find a gap a little faster at text level. It says in the text that it must be fixed per minute. The word "defined" means that you determine that it should be this way per particular unit, but it is not just about fixing the price per minute, it is also about calculating the final price per minute and passing on that price per minute. Doesn't Mrs Kikken fear that municipalities can comply perfectly with this law, but then continue to work with other payment units than the minute? After all, they have established it, but not passed it on to the customer in such a way. If that were the case, at least that word would have to be changed, because otherwise the law would be a completely empty shell and I have absolutely no idea that that is Mrs Kuik's wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. First of all, the Christian Union Group would also like to congratulate the author on submitting this bill. The explanatory statement and the note on the report provide a great deal of information to the Chamber on the current parking policy and I thank the author for the answers to the questions that have also been asked by our group. The complainant notes that settlement per unit of time of 10 to 60 minutes is still the norm. However, the VNG points out that there is a development towards smaller time units. Call parking is also being used in more and more municipalities, with payment per minute. My first question to the author is whether she would like to explain again the need for this legislative proposal in the light of the developments I have just outlined. I've had a lot of reactions to this bill. Many citizens, but also for example catering and retail, have an opinion on paid parking. That's not crazy either, because I think everyone's involved. The common thread in all these reactions is that the biggest annoyance of people is at the level of the rates and not so much at the rate units. My question to the author is whether she shares this conclusion. Let us be clear: the Christian Union also attaches great importance to fair pay. The petitioner rightly states that people often pay much more than is necessary because they do not complete the tariff unit. Mrs. Kuik estimates that municipalities receive at least 35 million per year for unused parking minutes. In accepting this law, the municipalities will undoubtedly adjust their rates. Parking revenues will therefore not be reduced, but will be collected in a different way. I have two questions for the author. First of all, on communication to the citizen. In order to get real transparency in tariffs, it would be good if municipalities not only pay off per minute, but also communicate their rates in clear units so that they become comparable. So no more a rate per 39 minutes I'm just going to mention a little bit of "b" but, for example, an hourly rate. I notice that the initiator does not say anything about this communication of tariffs. I believe that this is in line with what the D66 Group has also put forward. I would like a response from the author. My second question concerns the amount to be paid in the end. A survey by the ANWB shows that people are willing to pay a little more if they can pay per minute, but that should not be much more. Is the author of the bill sure that motorists will ultimately not be more expensive by paying per minute? I would like to dwell on the response of the Council of State. The Council was quite critical of the initiative proposal. Municipalities are free in their parking policy and free in the parking rates. The city council makes decisions about this. The Council of State raises the question of whether the annoyance over the lack of payment per minute is so great that this justifies an infringement of municipal autonomy. After all, people can appeal to their city council on this. I would like to receive a response from the author. Ms Kuik claims that the municipality keeps tariff freedom and that the bill is only about the method of settling the rate. That is true, but the applicant does not rule out the need for municipalities to invest more quickly in new equipment. According to the complainant, this would hardly occur, but there are no figures. Why has it abandoned the initial intention of a longer transitional period and is it now being chosen for a one-year period? Can the petitioner tell us a little bit more about the possible financial consequences? I'm rounding up. My group has many questions at the moment. We look forward to answering the questions raised by the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u21	Madam President. First of all, all the compliments from the CDA to the petitioner and the assistance they have provided. However, the CDA wonders whether the problem identified by the petitioner can only be resolved by law. The CDA agrees with the Council of State that the problem analysis is incomplete. For example, the applicant indicates that it is not known how many percent of the regulated parking spaces can be settled per minute afterwards. To what extent have the alternatives been adequately identified? Has the initiator also thought about a pilot project? For example, it is very likely that with mobile payment the billing per minute will increase. Consumers can then easily pay by an app per minute or via a city pass. The smallest currency that parking machines accept is usually 10 cents. For this amount can usually only be parked for a few minutes. Research by the VNG shows that calling parking is already possible in almost all municipalities where parking on the street has to be paid. The bill for paid parking per minute on the street seems to be overtaken by reality. The CDA also sees opportunities for this in parking garages. Another major objection to this bill, according to the CDA, is the fact that the bill infringes municipal autonomy. In its criticism, the Council of State points out that by introducing parking per minute rates will continue to rise. We have read the critical input of the Council of State well. With the Council, we believe that this proposal should be assessed on the following points: the obvious failure of the market, the question of social interest, its side effects and its effectiveness. The CDA Group has come to the conclusion that the legislative proposal is not yet sufficient. This is explained in the future of my contribution. To what extent has the obvious failure of the market been demonstrated? The CDA Group considers that the applicant has not sufficiently demonstrated obvious market failure. For example, it is not clear why the results of the initiatives resulting from the letter from the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations following the Dijksma c.s motion for a resolution. do not wait. In addition, the Council of State indicates that private operators have taken initiatives in recent years to calculate rates per smaller unit. The author also writes that there is indeed a trend towards smaller time units. Perhaps this development is not going as fast as we would like, but the trend is there. So there is indeed a trend towards those rates per smaller units. Furthermore, market players offer parking per minute via mobile parking services. The VNG states that currently 100 out of 155 municipalities using parking charges allow mobile payments per minute. The VNG expects that, in the short term, parking is possible in all 155 municipalities which levy parking tax under Article 225 of the Municipality Act. Consumers themselves will also continue to be able to exert pressure on providers by adjusting their behaviour. The CDA Group therefore does not agree with the applicant that it can already be established that the market is completely failing. Maybe it's a bit slow, but it can't be established that the market completely fails to arrange parking per minute itself. Let us look at the second point, namely the social interest and the side effect. In the legislative proposal, the consumer interest is leading. The importance of residents and local residents is hardly taken into account. The CDA Group believes that the legislative proposal is relatively more concerned with the importance of consumers, less about the general public interest and therefore the need for this law. The CDA Group believes that in determining the parking policy an integral balance should be made between the interests of visitors, residents and the municipality. According to the CDA, the municipality is best placed to make this assessment. Parking policy cannot be separated from policies such as spatial planning, the environment and the economy. The optimal mix of instruments in these policy areas depends on the local situation. This mix is therefore an area of the municipalities. The CDA Group therefore does not see why there should be a breach of local autonomy. The author himself writes that tariffs will increase if this legislation is introduced. The rates will be increased to compensate for the loss of turnover. That loss of revenue is a result of more accurate calculation and payment, namely per minute. In fact, the bill merely causes the problem to be moved. The real problem is the annoyance over the level of tariffs. This anger will therefore increase among consumers, which will in fact result in little progress being made with the law. With this side effect, the initiator misses her well-meaning goal of paying more fairly for parking. That objective is expressed in the Dijksma c.s. motion. Furthermore, managers and municipalities will come to ask for subsidies for the acquisition of the necessary technology and for the enforcement of the obligation imposed by the law. That's what the taxpayer pays for. We're gonna give you that grant? If we do not do so, the costs will be passed on to the car parker, increasing the price per minute. I come to effectiveness. The CDA Group wonders whether the reasoning is always that the rate per minute does not have to be paid for a longer period of time than for the actual parking time used. This reasoning only applies in cases where the consumer pays afterwards for the parking time used, and not in the case of paid parking on the street, where payment is often made in advance. The investigation of mobile parking provider Parkmobile shows that parking providers always buy extra minutes in advance for security. As a result, payment per minute will still be made for parking time that is not used. So today the CDA Group is also questioning the effectiveness of the legislative proposal. What's the conclusion? The CDA Group considers the initiative law superfluous because research by the VNG shows that in many municipalities where parking in the street is to be paid, call parking is already possible or will become possible. Moreover, the law does not sufficiently capture the facets of market failure, social interest, side effects and effectiveness. Action through legislation is therefore unnecessary and unwise, even though the goal of paying per minute for parking seems very sympathetic at first sight. The effects and consequences are not. In addition, municipalities already have a lot of work to do. So the timing isn't exactly convenient either. In fact, we say to the alderman: if you take care of the Wmo and youth care, we'll decide what your parking meter should look like. The CDA believes that municipalities themselves are about parking policy and does not feel that it is appropriate to determine from the Haagse kaesstolp how every municipality and garage should collect the parking fees from now on, especially in a country where we need fewer rules and laws, and from which even a European Commissioner has been sent to Europe to abolish rules. In addition, it will only be more expensive, as the petitioner himself and the Council of State say. If the petitioner comes up with a proposal to reduce parking rates, we think that, although municipalities deal with this, it is certainly so sympathetic that we want to take a serious look at it. After all, the real irritation is because of the amount of parking money, which means you have lost many euros. If you get the question in a survey whether you find it annoying that you have to pay for a minute you haven't used, the answer is: yes, of course I find that annoying. But if you're standing at the vending machine, you're annoyed by the amount and not by the number of minutes you may have wrongly paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u22	At the end of her speech, I think that the CDA Group is taking a bit of a turn. About the whole story is covered with "municipalities have to decide for themselves," but at the end of the story Mr Van Helvert says: if there is a law that reduces parking rates nationwide, we support that. I think that's weird. Was this a kind of frivolous remark which Mr Van Helvert did not mean to make, or did he take his speech at the end? I thought it was a good argument, so I'm disappointed he did this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u23	I did not say that we would support that proposal, but indicated that the real problem lies in the level of tariffs. If the author comes up with a proposal to bring it down, we find it so sympathetic that we want to look at it. Of course, I said that the municipalities are about it. I made that remark to make it clear that the real problem lies in the level of tariffs. That is painful and not so much the point we are discussing. We believe that this is what municipalities are about, and we have made it very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u24	Clear. May I conclude, then, that for the CDA group too, local autonomy and local democracy are critical in its assessment of this initiative legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u25	In all the speeches I have made so far in Parliament, I have stressed very clearly that I consider subsidiarity to be a very important right to do it myself. That is also the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u26	I'm coming up with a proposal to bring the tariffs down. Will Mr Van Helvert support that? This is, of course, a matter of municipal tariffs, but that is very clear, and not that of private companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u27	The proposal is sympathetic in any case. We are absolutely in favour of lower rates. However, we are not in favour of moving through the autonomy of municipalities in an amendment as quickly as possible. Although I find the proposal to reduce the rates sympathetic, I would be direct in favour of it, I still think that municipalities are about it. Mr Hoogland asked me what we are saying to the people who have to pay a lot in Amsterdam. At the moment when we decide that rates should be reduced in Amsterdam, the city council, and certainly the alderman of Finance, has a major problem. So we shouldn't be determining that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u28	Yesterday I sat with Mr Van Helvert in a debate on the KLM. In it we also decided everything about things that we may not always be about. We're gonna have to show our teeth once in a while. The high rates are the big stumbling block for people. A lot of people can't even afford it anymore. If Mr Van Helvert, on behalf of the CDA, says that the tariffs should be lowered, he must also show his teeth and go along with initiatives from the Lower House. The municipalities are really not going to do it, because they have had years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u29	Yes, but I would say that we should be with the municipal councils, with our political groups in the city council. That is why I strongly encourage the PVV not only here in the Lower House to shout out everything that municipalities have to do, but also to actually participate in municipal elections. That is where the real challenges lie at the moment. When it comes to real challenges, such as the Wmo, youth care and parking policy, the PVV does not give at home when it comes to municipal elections. The PVV says: that is too much work for us, that is too difficult for us; we do scream from The Hague what needs to be done. I'm not gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u30	Mr Van Helvert, this is what we call a challenge. That is why I will give Mr Graus the floor once again, but not after I have told you that I would be pleased if you do not do so in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u31	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u32	Thank you, Madam President. The PVV was founded a few years ago. I'm one of the guys who's been at the crib. Mr Van Helvert cannot expect us to catch up with other parties such as the CDA, which has been struggling for decades. First, we need to build our party quietly. We've had enough work here. I don't think that's fair. That's point one. And then point two. Even if we had been in the city council everywhere, we wouldn't have had our way either, because then it would have been defeated by a majority of VVD and CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u33	I note that the PVV considers it more important to look first at party interests and then at citizens' interests. I can at least say that the Christian Democrats were already in the city council before the CDA was established. In that sense, that seems clear to me. The autonomy of municipalities is of great importance to us. If we think that municipalities need to change something, we need to make sure that we can make our voices sound in the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u34	Madam President. It's a good thing there's no microphones in the benches. I would like to sincerely thank Mrs Kuik for this initiative legislative proposal. She's here alone. I haven't seen that very often in the four and a half years I've been here. There are many colleagues who do that on their own. I think that's a brave thing to do. You're standing right there. Now, of course, Mrs. Kuik has a whole party behind her, with a lot of seats, that's true, but, well, we usually do that together. All the more compliments. When I first saw the proposal on payment per minute come along, I had a lot of understanding. It seemed logical to me, because I too am sometimes annoyed by these amounts. The honourable Members have said that it is actually more about the level of the rates, but I think it is about both: the level of the rates you are annoyed with, but also about paying per minute, as the applicant rightly says. I'm afraid I have a little original input, except in length. If I were to work it all out, I would repeat what four colleagues have already done for me. To be honest, I had a bit of an appreciation of that, given the list of speakers. I would just like to list the two objections we have to these legislative proposals. They've all been worked out by the colleagues. It's actually very simple. Do you want municipal democracy to solve this problem or do you want to say that it has had enough time to work on it, but it has not done enough to your liking and that the House of Representatives in The Hague therefore seizes power and tells the municipalities that this is how we are going to do it? We will then be on the side that this power lies on the board of the municipality in the case of decentralised tasks, that municipal democracy must do so. So far, I do not find the arguments put forward by the applicant convincing. This municipal autonomy is a very important element, especially when we see that we are more decentralisation. As far as I am concerned, then the power of the House of Representatives is to follow a number of things, but to stay as far away from them as possible and leave it to local democracy. Much has already been said on the second point. I also have an app on my phone, with which I can pay at various parking garages per minute. The bill came up, it was recess anyway, so you'll have some time to install that sort of thing. It'll take some time to figure out how that works. I've got one of those IDs behind my windshield. Some car parks are automatic and sometimes you have to do things through your app. I don't have any subscription fees or texting fees, as was just said. There are no charges at all. I only pay by the minute. As a result, I say that these developments in the private market are already taking place with regard to those parts of the legislative proposals. I can see them moving on. I see an ACM report and an opinion from the Council of State, which says: there is no obvious market failure, why do you do that, just let that market do its job. These are the two most important points to assess this law. Do you want to traverse municipal autonomy? For now, our answer is "no." Do you think for the other part that the market is gonna fix it? As far as we are concerned, the answer is yes, because you see that development taking place. We do not see enough reason at present to vote in favour of this proposal. We are not here yet, because we are going to listen to Mrs Kuik, of course, and she will do her utmost to convince us that we are wrong. Until the vote, we are open to all her arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mr. Chairman. Before congratulating Mrs Kuik on all the work that she has done and that I appreciate very much, I must address my colleague Van Helvert. I'm sorry to have to start with that. I didn't want to do it, but I'm gonna do it. And why, Madam President? Because the Acts are recorded. There are always people listening and they should not have listened to this nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr Graus, in all honesty, you have had the opportunity to respond to the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u37	Yeah, but when I sat down, he said something again. I can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u38	No, I've given you ample opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u39	It's in my lyrics. I'm just gonna read it. The point is that the PVV has only been in existence for a few years. I meant to say that we have had a great deal of trouble getting our parliamentary group in order. It took a lot to do that, as well as for the Provincial States. It cannot be that someone from the CDA, who has been involved for decades and has achieved virtually nothing for the people, is going to tell me that we should have been in the municipalities everywhere. You can't do that in a couple of years. That's impossible. I'd like to have said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u40	I'm gonna say something about it now. You've had the chance now...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u41	I want to say what I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr Graus, we are dealing with a legislative proposal. You are going to have a very different debate here. I give you the opportunity to respond with a third interruption to what has been said. Mr Van Helvert has now learned why I spoke to him harshly, namely that I do not want this. It is not nice for the author of an initiative law on parking charges to hear that the debate is about something quite different. I have given you the opportunity to say once again behind the chair why you think you have been treated unjustly. I would now ask you simply to speak and say all the things about parking rates that I am sure you are eager to share with us. I know you have an opinion on this. You have signed up for this debate and I would ask you to do so now. Apart from the sitting, you can resume this debate with Mr Van Helvert, who was not allowed to speak anymore, and who I now urge not to go back to the microphone. I hope you will, because I will no longer allow you to speak on the previous point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u43	I don't agree. It has happened a few times that I have been deprived of the floor. I'm not gonna take that anymore. I'm not gonna take it anymore. You should have taken the floor from him. You take the word away from the duped and you make him sit there laugh. This is outrageous!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u44	I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u45	I am extremely pleased that Mr Graus is here to say the things he wants to say about Mrs Kikkie's own-initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u46	Mr. Chairman. I came back. I have been taken away for the umpteenth time, but I will come back to that another time, not now. I share that with the colleagues who agree. I came back because Mrs Kuik is a very esteemed colleague, with whom I am able to agree. I have a personal weakness for her, too. I like what she's done. She's been working hard, and I'd like to reward her. However, I totally disagree with what has just happened. I'll come back to that another time. I will also discuss this with my group. The author of the bill wants to realize that parking costs are paid per minute. In itself, no one can oppose it. That's what we've been told. Everyone likes it, too. We agree. When I read it, I also thought there was nothing wrong with it. However, it was subsequently found that the applicant was limited to parking less than 4 hours. However, the PVV wants the daily people and tourists to benefit from it. This is independent of the level of tariffs, as has already been said by several Members of Parliament. You can talk about a time limit or a currency limit, but it is important that people throughout the Netherlands feel unanimously, supported by Retailers Netherlands, that the rates are too high. We want to do something about that. I've also tried a few times to get the parking rates down. I have proposed that the municipal rates should be set at €1 per hour as an experimental measure. Then it will turn out that more people are going to park in the inner cities. This counteracts the empty position of shops. So I want to go more in that direction. To arrange the payment of the parking fee per minute, both parking passes owned by the municipality and parking spaces for private individuals are affected. We have a problem with that, too. That's why I want to report the following immediately. Four PVV amendments have just been distributed, but I would like the amendments on item No. 10 and in part No. 11 in. They shouldn't have been distributed. This affects individuals and we do not necessarily want to do so. We just want it to apply to the municipality. We can find something and say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u47	The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (PSE). - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 10 and 11) have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u48	I have a question for Mr Graus. If I have understood him correctly, Mr Graus proposes to limit parking charges to €1 per hour. If that is a correct interpretation, I wonder what you're doing with municipalities that currently have a higher rate because they have a very scarce parking capacity in the centre. That way they want to send a little bit that there aren't too many people coming to the center, because otherwise things will get stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u49	I've been thinking about that. That is why I said and wrote in my motion that this should be done on a trial basis. That test will have to be turned off somewhere. I am sure that there is a municipality or several municipalities that want to cooperate and see how this will work out. Of course, there will also be municipalities which, for the reasons you mention, cannot participate. These are matters that the practice will show. That is why I asked for this to be done on a trial basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u50	Does Mr Graus have any indication of municipalities that would like to do so in themselves? The first reaction of municipalities may well be: Mr Graus or the Chamber may wish this, but in our municipality this is simply not possible, because capacity is very scarce. Are there practical examples that allow Mr Graus to think that this is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u51	There are people in municipal councils or aldermen who want to cooperate, but they don't decide it alone. If I mention names here, I can embarrass people. Those people do have the willingness to think along with Retailer The Netherlands about fighting unemployment in the inner cities. Eventually, that's where the investigation comes from. It is very important for the municipalities to do something about it. A lot of people go to the shopping malls outside the cities, the large shopping centers where they can also park for free. On the boulevards there are also more and more smaller shops. It would be up to many municipalities to do something about the emptiness. Maybe that's why they want to participate in a trial like this. That is why I made the motion so lightly and I did not want to twist the screws with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u52	Please continue with the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u53	That was a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u54	That was a motion. Apologies. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u55	It was a motion, and I might want to file it again in second term. Local democracy has been mentioned a few times. That local democracy doesn't always work. Almost every consumer thinks he has to pay too much parking money, while virtually no municipality is willing to do anything about it. I have already said in my interruption that these municipalities often need parking rates to close budget gaps. It's extra income. We cannot deny that, because those are the facts. The applicant claims that it explicitly does not want to enter the level of tariffs. That's exactly where we want to go. The two amendments that will be put to the vote aim to ensure that it should also be outside the four-hour period for day visitors, tourists and people without a parking permit. We want to tackle the tariffs, but everyone can read that in a moment. I started by saying that it seems like a very sympathetic proposal, but it seems to be an empty shell. My colleague from D66 already used that term. We must, of course, ensure that this does not happen. My advice to our group therefore largely depends on what happens to our amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u56	I have just read the amendments, so I do not have it all fully. Mr Graus stated in one of his amendments that the increase should be limited to the maximum inflation. Why is that necessary? In 2006, for example, payment per minute was introduced in Spain and there was no price explosion at all. In order to make exceptions possible, I can imagine that municipalities sometimes have to increase more than inflation and that this varies from one municipality to another. Why does Mr Graus want to record this so tightly, given that it actually went well in Spain?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u57	That's right, but of course Spain isn't the Netherlands. Countries can always be very difficult to compare with, but they may be good in certain municipalities and not in others. What matters now is that we have learned from the market and from local authorities that certain municipalities will tackle this in order to raise their rates. They will lose income if they are paid immediately per minute. We want to prevent that. Again, it would be a very nice bill if it were to guarantee that there would be no price increases. We have the fear and also the suspicion that most municipalities are going to raise their rates. This can be avoided. We think the rates are too high, so it's already a blow-off for the PVV. We would then be able to avoid another increase if the amendment were to be adopted. That's why. We must therefore be careful that this seemingly sympathetic law does not become an empty shell. I hope for support from the Chamber. Perhaps there are some Members who would like to consider how we are going to prepare this. Maybe we can start with a community that's dealing with emptiness and wants to cooperate with the VNG. Then we'd have to get together and see how it works out. It could just be that by reducing revenue there will be more revenue. Less is more, is sometimes said. You don't know, because a lot of people avoid downtown. I would like to leave it at that for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u58	I appreciate the thought of Mr Graus to solve an annoyance that we all experience in garages. However, I have a question about parking in the street. This bill also covers parking on the street, although there is no irritation there, because you pay afterwards. Does Mr Graus share the VVD's view that street parking should be excluded from these two laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u59	That depends. For street parking there is always municipal rates, because it is municipal property. According to my story, I would like to exert my influence there rather than in the parking garages that are often owned by private individuals. Or didn't Mr. Love mean that and I misunderstand him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u60	About half of the garages are operated by municipalities and the other half by commercial companies. Payed parking on the street is by definition the municipality: with you in the street, with me in the street, in the centers. The problem of post-payment does not matter there, because you make an estimate in advance. So that annoyance doesn't have to be taken away. Can Mr Graus imagine that we leave street parking aside and concentrate on municipal garages?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u61	Sure. There's a lot more pain there. If the municipalities are co-shareholders, we can also exert our influence on them. However, even for street parking, I want the rates to go down. That's what I want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u62	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin by thanking the author of this bill for the effort she has put into tackling a social problem. Last week we also happened to be able to defend a bill. It feels like an honour and at the same time as the core of our work to take control as co-legislator and submit legislative proposals to Parliament. That is why I think it is worth saying that I did not like the big words of the group of the VVD against this bill. You may disagree, but I do not think you should fight a group's commitment to making such a bill with such big words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u63	Let me respond to the factual observation that the Socialist Party is making a comment about big words. In other debates, the opposite could be the case. Flavors differ, styles differ. This isn't necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u64	That's absolutely true. If you are opposed to the government as an opposition or coalition party, I think that is a different matter than when you are opposed to a Member of Parliament as a Member of Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, that's where the difference lies. If you use words like the chicken cannon, I don't think it's so neat. That's what I should have said. Mr. Chairman. Parking is a mess in this country right now. Not only the way you pay, but also the length of time for which you have to pay varies from place to place. Sometimes you pay by half an hour, sometimes by hour and sometimes by minute. To be able to pay per minute, you often have to be connected to a service or have a mobile phone at hand. Admittedly, the number of municipalities in which you can pay per minute is increasing, but as far as we are concerned it is small. This can and must be made more accessible. This bill will ensure that there will be a fair way of paying parking. Well, let's face it, paying half an hour for a five-minute message is annoying everyone. An example has just been given, which happened to be the city in which I live, showing that it would matter a million if it went to pay per minute for parking. This shows the extent to which the car parkers are disadvantaged. You can ask the question of how Mrs. Kicken is going to solve that, but if you're from a government party that lets the municipalities with discounts of hundreds of millions of care tasks do, I think that's a little inappropriate. I think it would be good to have clarity: if you park in the Netherlands, you pay per minute. Because the bill ensures that it is the same in all municipalities, we are in principle in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mrs Leijten says that the VVD is the party that gives municipalities all extra care tasks with millions of discounts, but so does the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u66	And so is D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u67	D66 does not, because it only supports the policy and that is quite different from supporting the cabinet. That's not the point. I would like to say that we have supported this, with all the text surrounding it, but it is not a matter of concern; let us be clear about it. My point is that Mrs Leijten is blaming the VVD for something that the party of the proposer of this bill has done. Wouldn't it be illogical to blame only the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u68	It wasn't meant to be so much as a reproach. I just wanted to say that it's a little double standards. In this bill, it's a problem that your municipalities, possibly, are saddled with financial problems. In other cases, however, the VVD has no problem giving municipalities additional tasks with a discount of hundreds of millions. The thing I wanted to say was about double standards. I will come up with another example in which there is a good double standard in this Chamber. I'll take D66 as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u69	I can't wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u70	However, we still have a few questions about this bill. How does the petitioner view municipal autonomy? Many parties here say they are in favour of municipal autonomy. It strikes me that this argument is used one time and not the other time, for example by D66. That party believes that in the assistance you may impose rules on a municipality that does not allow it to do so much customization, but in this case it believes that the municipality, the city council and the power of democracy should be at the forefront of parking charges. This also applies to other parties in the reception of asylum seekers. It is not for the municipalities or local councils to decide for themselves; it is not for the State Secretary to do so. I would just like to say that municipal autonomy is generally an argument which, in one case, weighs very heavily and, in the other case, is overruled. In this way we would like to point out that we are not opposed to imposing anything on municipalities. If it is necessary to have a law that eliminates municipal autonomy, then so be it. However, I would like to ask the author how she sees this balance sheet. Is it necessary in this case to eliminate municipal autonomy with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u71	In this debate, a number of parties take the same approach. According to Mrs Leijten, double standards are applied, but I would like to talk about local customization. Isn't it true that in some cases the SP also says that you have to opt for local customization and local autonomy and in others you have to impose central rules? Does Mrs Leijten agree with me that there is no party in this Chamber who does not sometimes choose the municipality to decide on something and sometimes for the national government to do so? So that includes the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u72	Sure. That's what I'm saying. I have only heard a number of parties here a negative assessment of the bill because they think, in principle, that this is something that the city council is about, while I note that they consider, in other respects, that the city council should be excluded in principle. I am now asking the petitioner whether it is necessary in this area to have a legislative proposal that violates the powers of the city council and local autonomy. I would like to hear her answer as to whether there is a balance between national and local policies. And, of course, we are not opposed in principle to restricting municipal autonomy, but because a number of parties have said that this is the reason to oppose this bill, I would like to say that double standards are applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u73	That is true, but if Mrs Leijten assesses the choice of putting something in the municipality every now and then, and occasionally something in the national government, in certain parties as measuring by two measures, she does not escape the conclusion that the SP also measures by two measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u74	Sure. Then you have to be able to explain. Take the welfare rules. In this case, we believe that the municipality should be able to deviate more, while a majority in this Chamber imposes on the municipality to reduce assistance if people supposedly fail in the application policy; then there is no municipal freedom. We think that municipal freedom in this area is just a little more important than when it comes to the principle of paying per minute for parking. One of the comments made here is that it is "one size fits all." I don't think that's the case. After all, Mrs Kuik does not insist that it should always be €1 per hour, as Mr Graus wants. Of that we would say that it is up to the municipality. Only the checkout should be per minute. Of course, everyone sometimes says that government policy is about municipal policy, and the other way around. But there are parties who say that's the reason why we're not here. Parking, people's income; I think it's a bit spooky. As I said before, the number of places where you can pay by phone is increasing. Does the petitioner believe that this will lead to full national coverage if the bill does not pass the Chamber? We have a second question: does this bill not lead to price increases? Others have already mentioned this point. A lot has been said about average prices and average duration. We have seen a lot of investigations coming along, but I would like to hear from the author whether the proposal will lead to an increase in prices and, if so, how big that price increase is and whether you can possibly prevent it. We all think it's nice to settle by the minute. I think it is also good if there are no differences between the municipalities in this area. We just don't want the parking guy to be chased at a cost. We are curious about the experiences of municipalities with per-minute enforcement. This is mainly about parking on the street. What about the enforcement? Is that doable? Is enforcement gonna be easier? Can Mrs. Kuik give you any information about that? I shall conclude with the following comment. If the author removes the doubts about the points I have raised, and in particular the doubts about the price increases, then we will have no problem with this proposal. It ensures a fair and clear treatment of drivers. It doesn't matter where you park and you're sure you'll pay for it every minute. I think that clarity is good for the parking guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u75	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the author. It may be unusual, but I also mention her associate Christiaan Winkel for a moment. My compliments on the work you've done. After all, there is an enormous amount of energy in that. Everyone knows the situation: you visit friends in the city center on Saturday night, it's cold and wet and you take the car. Until midnight, it's paid parking. You fill the meter until 11:58 p.m. Then you have two options. You can wait two minutes and then buy a ticket. But it's cold, so you pay till 9:03 on Monday morning. In these situations I sometimes consider borrowing a bicycle from the host, going home on a bike and picking up the car on Monday morning. After all, I paid till Monday morning. Or what if you had to take your mother to the hospital? To put her in a wheelchair and already in front of the door and then drive away, that's a lot. So you have eighteen minutes, otherwise there will be another eighteen minutes and you will lose double parking costs. That's a bit sad if you want to leave the parking lot after 20 minutes. These situations remind me of the time when the mobile phone was introduced. Those were the refrigerators, the big things, where there was always one interest in front, namely no longer call than one minute, otherwise you would have to talk two straight away and you'd be back on the phone in no time. Parking checkout per minute; it seems to be the most normal thing in the world. For us it's a logic: you pay petrol per milliliter, you pay phones per second and you pay parking per minute. Yet, unfortunately, reality is different. Every month we spend millions too much on parking time we never use. That is why it is right now to regulate in the law what is our wish for much longer, with the support of the 4 million members of the ANWB, Retailer Netherlands, who represents the retailers in our country, the Consumers' Association and many motorists. It is time to put an end to the principle of "the user pays for something he does not use." In Amsterdam, for example, people pay on average €1.83 too much per parking transaction. In Utrecht that is €1,62. So we can count on our approval for the bill to be paid per minute from now on. I mentioned just now: a similar bill was introduced in Spain in 2006. It appears that there are no price explosions. I just want to go into the 06-parking. Some steps have been taken in this area in recent years, but not everyone has the right app for the right city and not every app works everywhere. In addition, people are being hunted at a cost. There are subscriptions to the apps: weekly money, monthly money, transaction money. That's not so attractive when you go out with your family or visit a hospital every now and then. In Amsterdam, there is indeed one in two transactions with such an app, but beyond that, the number of transactions is falling rapidly. Only 14% of people in the Randstad use 06 parking. Out there, only 4% of people use it. I would like to end with a question to the author of the bill: how does it look at the costs of introducing this bill to the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u76	The feeling that when I hear Mr Hoogland talk like that is that you can make this bill look very attractive by giving examples of what we all find so annoying. But I am so curious to see what Mr Hoogland thinks of the figures provided by the VVD Group in this case, which shows that the great example that we all recognise very well, but in very few cases is real. How does he measure that against the fact that you are then putting down a law that might produce a lot of new cases that are not desirable? This is actually the question of proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u77	I understand that question, but what matters is that with what was introduced here earlier, the problem of street parking is denied. They said: listen you have an app; with it you pay afterwards and then you pay for what you used. But that is not quite in line with reality. It may be a bit silly to visit all apps, but I'll give you a random example: €5 registration fee, then €1.30 subscription per month and €16 per transaction. In short: it can be up to €70 per year if you park four times a week. That is why we believe that there is a problem and that this legislative proposal is proportionate. The importance of the motorist is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u78	The importance of the motorist is certainly not insignificant, so I would like to nuance it. What I am particularly concerned about is how Mr Hoogland looks at the fact that there are a lot of situations where there is no problem that this bill solves, while this bill provides a solution for a small part of the total parking situations. How does he put that against the fact that you come up with a law that, for example, doesn't fit the parking systems that municipalities have and the fact that municipalities work with different ways of rounding up, for example, rather than with minutes with euro cents, with all the consequences that this entails? Is it not true that, while we are solving a problem that is indeed there, we are creating a new problem that is perhaps ten times greater?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u79	Witnessing the experiences in Spain, I don't expect that. It's been discussed since 2008. Many parties have a local desire to pay per minute, but it is not realized. Then we can do two things. We can wait or say: no, we are now going to regulate this in legislation, so that the driver also pays for the number of minutes he actually uses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u80	Again, as I said in my speech, I appreciate the commitment of the Labour Party to remove an annoyance that is actually there. Mr Hoogland has an overview of payment apps. I assume Mr Hoogland will also be able to find some apps where you do not pay for the purchase, where you do not pay for a monthly subscription and where you may pay a modest amount per transaction, per parking moment. So there are. What I would like to say to Mr Hoogland, with a question mark behind it, is that there is therefore freedom of choice in which app you use. There are apps that have a subscription and there are apps where you only pay per act. That's the market. What does Mr Hoogland think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u81	I doubt I should mention the example. Let me put it to you a little business. You pay left or right, while you haven't stood for a minute, namely for signing up and unsubscribe. I understand that, because these companies have to earn something. But it's more honest if you pay for what you use, namely for the parking lot. You can do that now, but you often take too many minutes. We want to avoid that by putting this bill in place to deal with you by the minute. I think the difference is a bit in denying the costs, which we say are real costs for people. You can't do that to them. A second point is also important. Those apps aren't useful in every city. There's been forced shopping. Suppose I have an app that works in municipality A and I go to municipality B. It could just happen with the car. When I get there, I'm gonna need another app. In short, that leads to a situation that is not desirable and that is why we want to settle it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u82	What I liked so much about Mr Hoogland's interruption to my contribution and now in his own contribution, is that he mentioned in a number of cities the average amount of what a car parker pays too much. I think he mentioned the amount of €1.83 for Amsterdam, if I am not mistaken. That amount is not due to that app, but because people pay too much in advance. There are certain apps where you might pay 25 to 35 cents for signing up and unsubscribe. Then you arrive at a lower amount than when you pay in cash or with a debit card in advance. I therefore ask Mr Hoogland that there be a relativisation, because there are charges linked to the payment per way you pay. Will Mr Hoogland comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u83	I do find it special at all, because there is little relation in this Chamber. That's always good. But let us be clear: it is an amount of EUR 35 million that is spent too much annually on parking minutes that are not used. I think that's a hell of a sum. It may not be much for you and me, but for people who can shop when they park the car several times in a row, it is a lot of money. With the uncertainty margin in it because of the fact that you have to pay for more than a minute in one go, that's just lost money. I can't be any brighter: you flush that money down the toilet, to put it euphemistically. This means that we really weigh the importance of paying for what you are using more heavily than the solution that an app can offer to some people, but which actually entails costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-11.u84	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber.
