ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The police are more concerned with their own organization than with tracking. That's what the President of the Amsterdam Court said last Friday in NRC Handelsblad. Judges indicate that the reorganisation of the police has led to a significant reduction in criminal law. The courtrooms in Amsterdam, The Hague and Rotterdam are increasingly empty. It's a shocking development. Earlier, we noticed that the National Police solves 50,000 crimes less every year. There is also a very low level of willingness to report. Shopkeepers also complain to my group about the functioning of the police. We have been warning ourselves about this for years: police work is seriously affected by this suffocating reorganization. I have the following questions for the Minister. What explanation does the Minister for Security and Justice have for the decreasing number of criminal cases? Is it true that the police can do much less extensive investigations than in the past? Can the Minister refute that this has to do with the reorganisation? How is the Minister going to solve this big problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Bontes for asking these questions in response to the remarks made by the President of the Amsterdam Court. That gives me the opportunity to present to your Chamber that the Netherlands has become safer in recent years, partly thanks to the efforts of my predecessors, but certainly also of the Public Prosecutor and the National Police. The sense of security is rising in society. By the way, I would like to say straight away that it does not do enough for the elderly. The number of reports is decreasing. These figures follow the trend of safety. The number of registered crimes is decreasing and, thanks to the successful ZSM programme, fewer cases are coming before the courts, especially smaller cases, because we have chosen to dispose of them through the Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, the number of judgments is stable and the number of subpoenas by the Public Prosecutor's Office is also stable. Mr Bontes is right to say that the number of declarations is falling. I had an exchange of views with the Chamber on this. I ordered the WODC to investigate that a few months ago. That investigation will be completed in the first half of 2016. Then I'll inform the Chamber. Is the National Police the cause of the decline in criminal law? It follows from all the points I have just mentioned that there are fewer criminal cases. I can't confirm that one-on-one. I assume, however, that the reorganisation of the National Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office will have had an impact on the number of cases they can successfully resolve. Is it as gloomy as Mr Bontes sketches? No. Let us, for example, look at the more complicated cases, such as dealing with criminal gangs. It has been agreed that 950 criminal gangs will be tackled in 2015. At the moment, more than 50% of these gangs have been dealt with. The high-impact crimes continue to fall structurally this year thanks to the police's approach. On average, the percentage of cases that are resolved is still too low, but it is still the same as it has been for years. I can therefore conclude, on the basis of all these facts, that the Netherlands has become safer and that there are fewer criminal cases. However, I cannot establish a one-to-one relationship with only the reorganisation of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Crime figures haven't improved at all. Fifty thousand crimes are solved every year. The police themselves say that the reorganisation has led to a considerable deterioration in the service provision. The failure of the National Police is complete. The current cabinet does not make the Netherlands safer, but more unsafe. I would once again ask the Minister to come up with a credible explanation for the fact that the number of criminal cases is falling. Surely it cannot be that the Minister for Security and Justice does not know how far fewer cases end up in court and that much fewer crimes are resolved? The police themselves say that the service has deteriorated. At least, that's what the policemen and women say on the street. However, the Minister continues to play nicely again. I would like to hear a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'm gonna focus on the National Police. Last week we talked about the review note. I cannot quite follow Mr Bontes' description of it as a note of good weather, when he spoke very critically last week in the debate on that note and used very heavy words in it. So I don't follow that very well. It is our commitment to greatly improve the service provided by the police. It will, in every way possible. But that doesn't mean we're already there with the National Police. Mr Bontes did not hear me say that either. There is one point on which we really do not yet know where it comes from, namely the issue of declaration readiness. All the other facts mentioned logically lead to the conclusion that there is less criminal law. We do not know exactly how that happened and what part it has. It is true that I regularly inform the Chamber as part of the progress of the Strengthening Performance of the Criminal Justice Chain programme, a programme that we have also developed in close consultation with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	My final question is as follows. Does the Minister still agree with the words of the June Chief of Staff? Then Mr Bouman said that the police are performing better than ever. Does the Minister agree with these words from his chief of police, Mr Bouman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	I do not know exactly what Mr Bouman has based this comment on. I can't ask him that now. However, I note the following. Everyone agrees that in the old system it would have been impossible to use 400 police officers from all over the Netherlands to carry out the action against the Bandidos in South Limburg and to crush that criminal motorcycle gang. Two or three weeks ago, I sent 200 MEs to Brussels to assist the Belgian authorities in the peasant protest. Everyone agrees that such matters in the old system would have been unthinkable. I would also mention the development of a number of projects, such as MEOS, which can be registered in the streets or in people's homes, something that many people find very pleasant. On the basis of such data, I find that the National Police are doing very well in many areas. However, if Mr Bontes takes a look at the review note, he will see that it has to and can be done much better in a large number of areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	I disagree with the Minister. He must be careful not to fall into the same mistake as his predecessor, former Minister Opstelten, made. He also had a tendency to keep saying that the figures showed that safety was going very well. The current minister still does not know exactly what the declaration is about. I hear there's been a strong fall in willingness. A lot of people, entrepreneurs, shopkeepers say: we just don't press charges anymore, because it doesn't make any sense. The minister keeps putting up with the numbers. I'm warning him that could be dangerous. Later he has to come back to his words if it turns out that it didn't go well at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	Now I do not believe that what I have just said about this declaration has become quite clear. I don't know why this willingness to report is falling. Since we don't know that, but we do know that, I've had an investigation done by the WODC. I cannot therefore share the conclusions drawn by Mr Bontes on this subject. I say this explicitly in the past, as I did in the past, that I do not know, that I do want to know and that we have it investigated. So I cannot follow Mr Bontes on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr Van der Staaij, in my view and in the case of the Registrar, you were the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would still like to talk about the point in the interview that attracted attention. It has been said very emphatically: 'It is sometimes dragging to fill those sessions'. And: "In difficult police court cases and multiple board cases, it's harder to get those hearings filled." Does the Minister recognize this point? Isn't it a pity if this could lead to the loss of seat capacity or so difficult to fill in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	On that last point, I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij. A number of programmes developed by the Judicial Board together with the Public Prosecutor provide for the so-called control tower approach. The seat capacity is therefore optimally used. The length of the session and therefore the expected time between the arrest and the hearing will be as short as possible. That's in everyone's best interest. On the next occasion, I will certainly be able to understand with the Court of Justice the message given by Mr Naves. I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	It is good that the Minister has in-depth research carried out by the WODC, but that does not relieve the Minister of the need to give the Chamber for the Budgetary Treatment of Security and Justice an insight into the cause of the decline in the number of criminal cases. I would like to inform the Minister that yesterday it appeared again on the radio that one in three farmers in the Netherlands is being robbed. However, when they press charges, they are told by the police that they should ask on Facebook if anyone can find their agricultural vehicle. Surely it can't be that our hard-working farmers get that answer from our police?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	I am pleased that Mrs Van Toorenburg is calling for attention to be paid to the farmers. It is precisely because I am very concerned about the development of crime in the agricultural sector that I recently launched a programme with LTO to enable people to become more aware of the problem. It is true that agricultural vehicles are a good example of this. On the farm where I was, the agricultural vehicle was indeed not sealed off. That stood indeed with key and all waiting for someone to come to drive him to a certain destination, illegally. The farmer in question told me the reason was that his son drove it, he himself and their craftsman. He thought it was so handy that they could drive that thing away as soon as they needed it. It happens. There are great concerns about that. It goes without saying that it may be useful for someone to make known as soon as possible that he is missing the device. This can be done via Facebook, Twitter and so on, but in consultation with the police. It must be possible to make a simple declaration and, if possible, take action. I fully agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	I do not think it would be wise for the Minister to use the mantras of his predecessor: the Netherlands has become safer. That's a container concept. What's "safe"? Is it subjective security? Is it objective safety? I am very curious to hear the Minister's opinion on the whole approach in the criminal justice chain. Now it says here that the police aren't delivering cases, but there's always a public prosecutor between bringing those cases to the courts. What does this mean in the light of the cuts in the D.A.'s office? There's a lot more going on in the entire criminal justice chain. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg's question, although I am expanding it. In dealing with the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice, I would like to see the impact of all these cuts and pressures on organisations made clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	I think that Mrs Berndsen is asking quite a lot at the moment, but I also understand that, because she is leaving the Chamber on 1 November. I'm shocked about that news. I therefore fully enjoy the opportunity to answer the questions she has asked, because perhaps I will not be able to do so for very long. Mrs Berndsen is well aware that in the agreed periodic, rather comprehensive Progress Report Performances Criminal Justice Chain, I provide that information. I do not know by heart whether it is already foreseen for the budget. If that is the case, it will automatically come to the Chamber for the budgetary procedure. If it isn't, I won't bring him forward, because there's a whole process of people who have to deliver information. I just want that to be ritualized so that we can have the debate. Moreover, I have taken good note of the concerns expressed by the Chamber about my budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	During the discussion of the new reorganisation plan for the National Police, the Minister expressed concern about the far-reaching nature of the renovation. "A moving car, where a block must be removed and the wheels must be switched off." We know the whole metaphor. He has expressed his concerns about, for example, the quality of detectives. So there really needs to be a quality impulse. The Minister himself has already put his finger on the sore spots. Now there's going to be an investigation from the WODC. That cannot, of course, be an academic exercise that we are waiting very patiently for, that we are discussing once and that is it. We really need to be informed about the whole criminal justice chain and all the actors involved. That's also about the D.A.'s office, which is very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	How do we get updated periodically, not just once? How is the finger kept on the wrist all the time? How do we keep talking about this all the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	Fortunately, we are constantly talking to the cabinet about this aspect, as I remember my previous capacity. We do so on the basis of the report on the progress of the criminal justice chain, which I send periodically to the Chamber. I'll just keep doing that. We will continue to do so for as long as the Chamber no longer feels like it. I think, given the importance of the subject, that this interest of the Chamber will continue to exist. There is one with me, because I share the concerns expressed by Mr Segers, as he knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you for your answers and thanks for coming to the Chamber.
