ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u1	There were six members present for this meeting. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance, as well as all the others present in the Chamber. First of all, Mr Bashir of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Fraud and irregularities caused the NS to miss the concession in Limburg. As a result, the traveller, the staff and 150 million taxpayers have been harmed. That money is now heading towards the German state treasury. The Minister then needed no less than three attempts to dismiss the director of the NS, with his promise that he would not receive a departure plan and no bonus, not sustained. At the moment, the Minister is trying to get the bottom line. However, we are also curious about the role of the minister himself and assume that he will be included in the investigation. Especially since we are still waiting for the results of the Fyra survey, we are surprised that the Minister is already starting to mortify the statutes of the NS and that the strategy of the NS and the possible rejection of parts will also be looked at. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several serious irregularities have occurred around the NS in recent times;]] [[Considering the ongoing work on adapting the statutes of the NS and the possible sale of parts (such as Qbuzz);]] [[Whereas the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Fyra has yet to present its conclusions and recommendations;]] [[calls on the Government not to take irreversible steps around the NS until the results of the Fyra survey have been dealt with by the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. The AO State participation was mainly about the NS, and in particular about the amateurism surrounding the dismissal of Mr Huges. According to the Minister, Mr Huges would not receive any remuneration for dismissal, and in the summer it was unfortunately necessary to do so. The amount involved is as much as €175,000. D66 really thinks it is a wrong signal to society and really sin, especially because it could have been prevented. I am not tabling any motions today, but I still have two pressing questions, also because the debate on the future of the NS will soon be held. My first question concerns what the Minister has said about Mr Huges. In the letter of 5 June, the Minister wrote that Mr Huges was careless because he had informed the shareholder and the Commissioners too late. He also, the minister wrote, led an organization with a weakly developed sense of standard and did not provide all the information to the truth. However, the Minister then says: 'I still have full confidence in Mr Huge as Commissioner for another state participation'. Were those words appropriate? Does this mean that in February 2016 Mr Huges can simply be reappointed as Commissioner of the Rotterdam Port Authority? My second pressing question concerns the other news about the NS last summer. The NS wanted to sell Qbuzz unexpectedly to the French railways. That came unexpectedly for everyone. From the answers to the written questions I get the impression that De Telegraaf also knew this before the Minister. If so, this underlines the need for cultural change within the NS. Can the Minister tell us when he first heard about these plans from the NS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. The VVD has two points, starting with the settlement around the former top man of the NS. From the written discussions we have had on this subject, it appears that there was no other way. If it can't be done the way it has to be done, it has to be done the way it can. However, the VVD would have found it only reasonable if Mr Huges hadn't gotten a penny, given everything that went wrong with the NS. That's why the whole settlement has a dirty aftertaste for us. I hope the Ministry has also learned from this amateur firing soap opera. The second point is Qbuzz. Recently, the newspaper "Qbuzz was taken out of the window" and "Dijsselbloem sticks a stick to deal." We wonder if the message is true that the Minister has put a stop to this and, if so, why. In the AO we have talked extensively about the activities that the NS should be able to do. The VVD is in favour of the NS withdrawing from its core activities. What does the Minister think of a possible sale of Qbuzz? When has the strategic reorientation of the NS on its role in the regional transport market in the Netherlands been completed? As far as the VVD is concerned, this should become clear very quickly, all the more so since the NS has again objected to the loss of a tender there. How does the Minister assess this objection in the light of the invitation to tender in Limburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party welcomes the change in thinking about state participations. It is now about active management rather than "rejection if possible." However, active management also demands that shareholders' rights be fulfilled, and we note with the General Court that not all possibilities are yet being exploited. This concerns the statutes and control of investments, but also the communication, for example between the shareholder and the Commissioners appointed by the shareholder. The Minister, in general consultation, indicated that he would tighten up the reins on this issue and further fill in the shareholders' rights and make a note of this in the autumn. We're gonna wait and see, so we're not gonna make any motions yet. I do have one more question. The government is considering further increasing the share of our port companies. We are already participating in the port of Rotterdam and there is also the intention to participate in other port companies, for example in Amsterdam. I would like to hear about this, also in relation to the discussions on port corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. As my colleagues have already pointed out, the consultation on state participation was largely about the dismissal of one director. It was disproportionate, but it also happened. There is still a written consultation, so we will come back to the question of how to proceed at a later date. I would like to table two motions today, one on Urenco and one on the foreign holdings of the NS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is still taking steps to dispose of the shares in URENCO;]] [[considers that the holding of shares in URENCO is important for strategic interests for the Netherlands in the context of economic security policy and for the preservation of technological knowledge, innovation and employment;]] [[calls on the Government not to sell the shares in URENCO and to consider the holding of shares in URENCO as "strategic interest' in a subsequent memorandum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-224]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u7	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NS's foreign rail activities are larger than its domestic rail activities;]] [[Whereas foreign activities could involve financial and business risks which could also affect domestic activities and thereby the stability of the Dutch main rail network;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify the opportunities and threats posed by NS's foreign holdings and activities in relation to the risks to the Dutch State and the Dutch main rail network and to report to the Court by the end of 2015 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28165-225]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer a few separate questions first. In the meantime, I'll probably get the motions. There is indeed, as Mr Omtzigt said, a written consultation on the dismissal procedure around Mr Huges. I sent the answers to the questions to the Chamber yesterday. We don't have to beat around the bush for long: it's been extremely unfortunate, sloppy. As a consequence, as I informed the Chamber in the summer, we settled with the former top man of the NS. In doing so, I have my political intention, also expressed in the Chamber, not to give him any further compensation, no money, no money. It's what it is. I can't make it prettier. I think we will talk more about this. Mr Bashir said that the Minister is already starting to mingle with statutes and look at the strategy. We're gonna have to pull it apart for a while. The State participation note shows quite precisely how I intend to fulfil the role of shareholder in State participations. That's a little more activist than in the past. It is more activist in the areas of appointments, rewards, strategy, admitted, that is broad..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Defining exactly what my powers are will require us to go through all the statutes, all the state participations. That's what we're doing. With the approval of the Chamber, I have not heard that the Chamber does not agree with that. I shall continue to do so. Mr Bashir says: the Minister is already talking about statutes. That is all in the light of what we intended in that note, which was made a year ago. We are going to amend those statutes to ensure that the role of the shareholder in very specific areas is very sharp. We will not sit in the seat of the directors, nor will we sit in the seat of the supervisory board. Otherwise, it would be completely unclear who is responsible for what. This is what I wanted to say about the statutes and strategy. Involvement in that strategy is part of that. I come to Mr Koolmees' question on the sale of parts. He asked: when did the minister know this? Apparently, this thought has been explored within the NS. It hasn't been submitted to me. But let it be clear that, in view of the new policy, the strategic choices and the two motions of the Chamber asking for a reorientation of the NS's tasks and strategy, both internally and abroad, it is inconceivable that such a decision would be taken without my approval, outside the political shareholder. And that's what got into the paper that they're not my words. The minister put a stop to it. That's true right now. Was this also the answer given to the question about the positioning and job delineation of the NS? No. There are two motions, I believe one of the VVD and one of D66 and the VVD, in which I am asked to take a broad look at the job definition of the NS in the country and abroad, particularly in terms of stations and other areas and, of course, regional procurement. That's what we're gonna do. I come here to Mr Bashir's question on the relationship with the Fyra survey. I think that's what his motion was about. The trajectory of reorientation on the position of the NS will not yet be completed. However, I do not know exactly when the Fyra survey will be completed. Maybe the Room already knows that. Maybe there's a plan for that. I expect to come to the Chamber in the course of the autumn with that reorientation. If the Chamber says she doesn't want to talk about it until she's talked about the Fyra survey first, I get it. The motion specifically calls for no irreversible steps to be taken. I think that makes sense. Unrecoverable steps in the strategic reorientation can only be taken after we have had a debate on this. If the Chamber wants the survey in first, I understand. So I have no problem with this motion. I can also simply undertake this and then the motion in part No. 223 to be unnecessary. I'll be on the other motions in a minute. Mr Koolmees also asked about the qualifications and the use of words about Mr Huge's actions. When you look back at that act, there has indeed been a real lack of care. At the level of NS you can give heavier qualifications, but the CEO's actions were at least careless. In the quotation, the phrase "weakly developed standard awareness" struck NS. I've been watching that. My conclusion is that the fact that I can no longer trust him as CEO, given the way things are going in Limburg, does not mean that he, with his background from previous years, cannot play a good role in logistics in the Port Company, where he has worked well and still functions as Commissioner. So I have faith in him as commissioner at the Port Authority and that's where it ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you for that answer. I also ask this because the letter of 5 June actually contains two aspects. One aspect is the resignation of Mr Huges. It turned out that this was not correct, or at least the supervisory board had withheld information, which later revealed that Mr Huges had not resigned. That's one part of the letter. The other part of the letter "I happen to have him here with me" contains very harsh words, not only about the organisation itself, but also about the actions of the President-in-Office. I've given you some quotes. The most pressing thing is: "I note that the president-director of NS has not met this standard, quite the contrary." This gives a strange picture when it is subsequently found that this person can still stay as a Commissioner in another participation for which the minister is responsible as shareholder. In this light, the letter of 5 June used too harsh words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u10	No, I don't believe that. Those words are considered. The standards, especially in a company such as NS, naturally concern the careful handling of tenders. That didn't happen. There is information shared within parts of NS that should not have been shared. Also, information that should not be shared is shared with a daughter who herself participated in the tender, and so on. When you talk about the standards of careful management, especially in the case of procurement and the rules you then have to comply with, there are really big mistakes. That does not mean that a person is no longer suitable for any function for the rest of his life after that, and that is the question that is at issue here. Does this mean that that person will no longer be able to perform any function in the case of state-owned companies or public enterprises? Again, that's what I've weighed. I have looked again at what Mr Huges is to blame in this case. That is what he really blames in the case-Limburg; hence the qualifications. That does not mean, however, that he would be unfit or could no longer have the confidence as Commissioner at the Port Authority. That's the trade-off I made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u11	I must say that I always find it very difficult to mention very explicitly the name of a person without that person taking part in the debate. I understand the complexity, but for the Acts I would like to have noticed this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u12	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I will try to avoid it, but that is, of course, difficult in this case. Mrs De Vries has asked whether lessons have been drawn from this at the Ministry on the whole issue of the errors in the dismissal procedure. Yes, with that remark that we are the shareholder and not the supervisor, because that is the supervisory board and not the director of the companies. That is the nature of a state participation. Sometimes that is extremely difficult, because if mistakes are made, the Chamber is right to ask me how this could have happened. This does not mean that, in order to avoid errors, we will have to sit on the seat of the board or of the Commissioners in the future. If that is what we want in order to avoid errors, we must choose a different form of administration and perhaps turn it into an administrative department. I am not in favour of this, but in that case I am directly responsible for the whole business. In this balance, we will be very vigilant about how our state participations are run. I have already said that we want to complete the strategic repositioning this autumn. I hope that we can also benefit from the results of the Fyra Committee. I expect this dossier to produce important recommendations. So that will probably be the order for us as well. Mrs De Vries asked about NS' objection to the loss of a tender in the North of the Netherlands. I have to look at that, because this is a typical example of business operations for which I do not need to be asked for prior approval. If Mrs De Vries wants to know that more precisely, I or Mrs Mansveld can answer that. Mr Groot asked about the possibility of taking shares in port companies, specifically in Amsterdam. A number of years ago, discussions were held with Rotterdam and Amsterdam on whether this would be useful from a strategic point of view. At that time, it was also specifically about the Rotterdam/Amsterdam cooperation and the question whether the government as a shareholder in Rotterdam had a role to play in this. As far as I know, this is quiet. I haven't talked about this with Amsterdam and Rotterdam in the last two years. Once again, I believe that the initiative must come from them, because it was really about whether the cooperation between these two port companies should be shaped in a different and better way. From the public interest, I currently have no independent criterion or cause or reason to become a shareholder in Amsterdam. The approach route was another, namely the question of how this cooperation could take shape differently in the future and what that would mean for the shareholdership in Rotterdam. If there are new developments, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. I now move on to the remaining motions. I have the request in the first motion, the motion in part No. Mr Bashir (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have no objection to that motion being adopted. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. It actually concerns the Chamber, but I am happy to say so. Mr Omtzig's motion for a resolution 224 refers to the sale or non-selling of shares in Urenco. We are currently finalising legislation to safeguard public interests much better. We have really looked fundamentally at the whole complex of public interests around this company. In addition, the German and English shareholders want to sell. This means that we need to rethink our position. I would suggest to the House that we hold the motion and first hold the debate on the basis of the legislative proposal. If, on the basis of this legislative proposal, the Chamber had confidence that we had secured public interests properly, then an independent consideration could then be made. The cabinet will also have to make that assessment final if we are to privatise it or not. If the motion were to be put to the vote now, I would advise against her. I would like to begin with the debate on the law which will shortly be submitted to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt asked the government to identify the opportunities and threats posed by foreign holdings and activities. We take this with us in the reorientation on the basis of the two motions that are already before us. The motion is very negative about foreign activities, while they can also have interesting advantages, including for the NS. We will take the advantages and disadvantages more neutrally and will involve them in the reorientation which will be presented to the Chamber before the end of the year in accordance with this motion. With that explanation, I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-01-tweedekamer-11.u14	The vote on the motions tabled is next Tuesday.
