ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. I would also like to welcome everyone else this evening after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Bullying at school, it could ruin your life. Tim Ribberink's suicide also showed that. I want to start today with a column by journalist Janske Mollen from daily de Stentor in Zwolle. The title of the column is "Suicide for bullying behavior." "Tim Ribberink's suicide hit me like a sledgehammer. Suicide for bullying. Suddenly I was back in that schoolyard from my childhood. "Hey, fat boy!', Took it across the square. I was ten years old and anything but fat. At least that's what I see now, looking back at pictures and wondering, where did it go wrong? Maybe there, in that schoolyard. Between bullies, bullies and a little too tough sixth graders. Over the years I have indeed become the "fat." Despite a few fanatical years of handball and countless line attempts and diets.(...) And all these years it went on, the bullying, the bullying, the belittlement, the discrimination. Because if you're a fat or fat man or a woman, you're discriminated against. People have an opinion and they think they can express it. "Don't eat so much. "You're so ugly." "Is that contagious?" Bullying is of all ages and ages. Schoolchildren, pupils, students and adults do it. Colleagues make each other's lives miserable. On the street and in the pub people are aiming for mockery and bullying. The summum of bullying is called GeenStijl. It has an opinion on everything, but it can change from day to day, especially in favour of themselves. I should know. After an internet movie in a Stentor project to strengthen my umpteenth line effort, I was painfully finished in images, sound and above all many words. I've had nightclub nights ruined by bullies, had nightclubs with friends and been very unhappy with myself. It has made me stronger over the years, but I understand very well how things could have gotten this far with Tim." Mr. Chairman. It is good that bullying is on the agenda of the House of Representatives, because bullying can be life-threatening. The daily course to school is hell for almost 200,000 students every day. 14% of children are structurally bullied in primary school. Their development is sometimes broken at an early age. It is therefore a good thing that there is attention to bullying. The question before us today is: is the bill we are discussing here tonight going to solve this; is it going to deal with the bullying at school? The cabinet proposes to implement a social security policy at each school, to appoint a bullying coordinator and to visualise bullying at the school concerned. The SP fears that this bill only portrays bullying, and does not address the cause of bullying and bullying itself. How is it that in some schools there has been a climate in which bullies have free play? What analysis does the Secretary of State have on the origin and growth of bullying in school? Each school will have to create an environment of tolerance, of looking after each other, of working together. It is precisely the scale increase in education that prevents tolerance and humanity in these large schools. Smaller schools, smaller classes and more support in the classroom allow for early detection of bullying and early intervention. By cutting back on the janitors and class assistants, supervision in the school classes and in the schoolyard has become less and less severe. Therefore, bullying can take larger and more frequent forms. Why doesn't this Secretary of State invest in class assistants, janitors and more teachers? Why doesn't this Secretary of State invest in smaller classes and scale reduction in education? Why doesn't this Secretary of State invest in more guidance and support in the classroom? There is also a crucial role for teachers. If teachers provide good education for pupils and stand in front of each other, if there is mutual trust in the teachers' room, bullying at school can be tackled much faster and better. This confidence in each other and in the school board is sometimes lacking because of the high workload of teachers, because teachers are paid for everything and everything by this cabinet. The quality must be high. The schools need to be excellent. Teachers need to record all kinds of actions. The score on the final test should be sufficient, otherwise the school will be considered weak. Teachers should pay extra attention to children with disabilities through the introduction of appropriate education. Et cetera, et cetera. The checkout culture of the inspection, based on figures rather than on the educational development of children, does not allow teachers sufficient time to focus on the interaction between pupils in the classroom. In the meantime, a teacher must have eyes in his back to meet all the tasks that we send from politics into the classroom. As far as the SP is concerned, we really need to stop doing that. The rigged circus of the anti-bullying methods is also just symptom control. These programmes are only a small part of school bullying prevention policy. Moreover, anti-bullying methods do not address the underlying problem of oversized classes and lack of supervision of the school square and in the classroom. Pedagogue Micha de Winter wrote: "Sander Dekker's anti-bullying programs are symptom control, a pill against excesses of an outspoken competition cult." De Winter also wrote that for humanity you need good education and no anti-bullying programs. The SP is therefore pleased that this Secretary of State has turned. Two years ago, this Secretary of State had to choose schools from one of the 13 methods. That is insane, because the effect of these methods is debatable. That's what we saw the other day in Nieuwsuur. The Kinderombudsman, Mr Dullaert, has clearly galloped by calling for schools to choose from these methods. My question to the Secretary of State is where the moving insight comes from. After all, he was on the same line as the Children's Ombudsman, but he turned away from it. What happened in the meantime in the head of the Secretary of State? Did he suddenly see the light himself or is this purely the result of political pressure? Did the Secretary of State check out Jinek on February 18th? In that broadcast a debate took place between the Children's Ombudsman and Micha de Winter. De Winter put her finger on the sore spot in that debate and indicated why the Children's Ombudsman's anti-pest approach is not working. Does the Secretary of State share De Winter's view that the school is a community? It's clear the Children's Ombudsman went crazy at this point. The question that is still on the table is: is it wise not to leave the function of an independent dispute committee as parents or students with the school with the Kinderombudsman? Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of bringing this Committee of Disputes with another body? I have three short points to make. There are also schools that conceal incidents of violence because of fear of a bad image. As far as I'm concerned, we shouldn't have that. Schools should be transparent about the safety of their schools and about the incidents that have taken place. How is the Secretary of State going to prevent schools from trying to keep incidents under wraps? Does the Secretary of State share the view that schools should be transparent about their security policy and that they should, among other things, be shown in the school guide? The SP is very concerned about the possession of weapons in schools. Nearly 30% of senior secondary school executives report weapons possession at school. That is an increase of 7% over the last two years. The Secretary of State says that he is going to pay extra attention to the possession of weapons, but the question is of course what this means in practice. What concrete measures will the Secretary of State take to reduce weapons possession in schools? I don't think guns should be in schools. 14% of primary school children are structurally bullied. In each class there are one or two children who are harassed, discriminated against or bullied every day and who are subjected to verbal violence. That could be life-threatening. My question to the Secretary of State tonight is therefore: when, according to the Secretary of State, has this law passed? What figures is the cabinet ultimately satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Bullying is painful, hurtful and damaging. In the Netherlands, some 147.000 young people do not feel safe at school. 14% of the children questioned indicate being bullied. LGBT kids even have an increased chance of being bullied. They indicate being bullied at least once a month. There's still a world to be won, at least if we're gonna pick on each other. Teachers, parents, students, students and politicians have a shared responsibility. D66 thanks the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science for his commitment to tackling bullying. I think it really is a milestone that there is a ruler who says: I want to fight bullying. That deserves a sincere compliment. Bullying is, of course, a problem of all times and bullying can never be completely eradicated. The central question today is what we can do with each other. That is also the question I started with at the start of my parliamentary membership, because I think this is a very important subject. Children should grow up in a safe environment; not only at home, but also at school. I am therefore pleased that a number of steps have been taken. There's a Secretary of State's plan. There is a plan from the PO Council and the VO Council. I would also like to mention the Social Security Action Plan at school, following a motion by Mrs van der Burg and myself. Today we are finally discussing the legislative proposal. As far as the action plan of the sectoral councils is concerned, I think it is very good that they themselves have taken responsibility for doing something about bullying. In his legal approach, the Secretary of State opts for three obligations for schools. There must be a social security policy, monitoring and a coordinator; a contact point for young people and for parents. The Education Inspectorate has to monitor this and can act sanctioningly if a school does too little about social security. We understand that this hook is needed in the law, so that the education inspection can be sanctioned. We think that is a good thing. Of course, the question remains whether everything we do helps. How can we ensure that we actually reach that bullied student? A number of good steps have been taken for this, but D66 believes that more is needed. It is important that teachers, parents and children are given the right handles to act and effectively combat bullying. They must also be actively involved. That's what I'm talking about today. First of all, I'm going into the anti-bullying programs. It is good to see that the Secretary of State has done research into the effectiveness of all these programmes. It is also important that we learn from this and that the information is made available to the schools. I do think that in the debate on this, in the media and in communication, too much emphasis has been placed on methods and too little on results. The discussion of whether or not something works in social science is a very difficult one. The context is decisive. The example of a lecturer's hork with an effective method leads to nothing. The communication on anti-pest methods has raised a great deal of expectations. I believe that the idea of harmful methods in circulation has been wrongly raised, and without this being actually investigated, I understand from the answer to my questions. I do not think that is right, looking at all the positive initiatives that exist. Why wasn't the connection chosen anymore? I think that's a bit of a cold payment of those methods. Those organizations and individuals that we are talking about cannot object. They have a negative image and cannot object to it. I'd like an extensive reflection of the Secretary of State on this process. The Bergkamp/Van der Burg motion has been adopted Kamerbreed and clearly indicates that schools have the freedom to choose their own method if they come up with an action plan themselves. They have succeeded, but it remains unclear whether schools are now obliged to choose from that list of thirteen methods, or whether they have the freedom to choose an alternative that fits with the teaching method, the atmosphere, the vision and the problems of the school. We hope that the Secretary of State will be able to answer this question in full. I didn't find it in the answer. The Secretary of State has previously agreed on a question from D66 that the approach against bullying should be sensitive to certain vulnerable groups such as the LGBT young people, young people with disabilities and young people with specific cultural or religious backgrounds. How is it achieved that policy, press coordinator and monitor are sensitive and therefore explicitly look at certain groups of vulnerable young people? I'm going to focus on the LGBT youngsters. We know these kids get bullied more often. That is often very far-reaching. They are bullied twice as often, often with all the consequences for suicide. It is now mandatory for schools to pay attention to sexuality, sexual diversity and sexual resilience. We are very happy about that. I find it strange, however, that this is not yet an integral part of teacher training. Of course, teacher training itself has a responsibility in this, but we do ask the Secretary of State what he will do about it. I also ask the Secretary of State if the education inspection can be sanctioned if a school does not meet the key objectives we have agreed on. So I'm talking about sexuality, sexual diversity and sexual resilience again. D66 believes that every school should pay attention to this, and that is what we have agreed. D66 would also like to talk about the blind spots in the approach. Bullies often take place in the blind spot mirror, just outside the teacher's view on the school square or via social media. How are we gonna get this bill up? We need well-trained teachers who give time, attention and priority to this issue. That's very important. I also see in practice that there are a lot of good things going on in education. D66 is convinced that a good approach to bullying stands and falls with a good teacher, rather than with a method. Can the Secretary of State explain once again how this subject is well anchored in the basic training and further training of teachers? We must ensure that what we are talking about today is only a theoretical model. There must be a proper anchoring in practice, and this must be in keeping with it. That is why D66 proposes to develop a question-baak bullying, in consultation with experience experts, people who have experienced it themselves and who can also come up with examples. A question box where children, parents, teachers and press coordinators can reach accessible and anonymously for all questions and best practices. We note that there is a huge need for this. There are schools that reinvent the wheel. Of course you have it NJi with all the bullying methods, but often it's about what to do in a specific situation. In particular, I consider the focus on parents and children to be very important. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to this idea. I would also like to hear whether the School and Safety Foundation could play a role in this. There is also a digital question mark made for teachers, or it is in the making. Then I'll go into the monitor. The information source of the educational inspection is the monitor. That's what people depend on. Who checks whether the monitor meets all legal requirements? Does the Secretary of State agree with us that it would be good if the choice for a monitor was made in consultation with the participation council? Isn't it very valuable for children and young people to think about the questioning themselves, so that it fits in with their world of experience? After all, we want to work things out. Is it not important for parents to be actively involved? That monitor plays an essential role in the whole of the laws. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this, together with the Christian Union and the SP. We must also realise that bullying does not always become collectively visible. Looking at the proposal, I'm struggling with it. Often a loner suffers from the consequences of bullying. You can't see that in the monitor. It aggregates and anonymizes data. How do you get a look at the individuals wrestling with it? How do the Education Inspectorate and the Secretary of State deal with this? The Secretary of State states that monitoring should be up-to-date. What is the term "current"? Is that at least once a year? We believe that such a monitor should take place at least once a year, but I also hear stories that the PO Council and the VO Council consider it sufficient once every two years. I don't think that's topical. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at the current state of the monitor. Is that monitor transparent for parents and children? My colleague from the SP also asked this important question. It must be a requirement that the outcome of the security policy should be transparent to the groups concerned, children and parents. If that is not the case, I want a ruling on why we did not arrange it. It is good that the student survey is being adapted. It gives valuable insights into the experience of young people. I know schools are free to choose the monitor. I wonder if that student survey is part of that. The sectoral councils are working on the windows. It's a beautiful instrument. If that is extended and deepened, it is very good that schools continue to do so. Will the results of the monitor end up in the windows? Or is it just an obligation to do so? I am pleased that the growing problem of cyberbullying is part of the windows. I don't know if sexting's part of that, too. Cyber bullying must have constant attention. Traditional bullying is shifted beyond the limits of the school. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how we can follow these developments. The law will be reviewed in five years. The approach we are talking about involves much more than just the law. My group very much appreciates being informed in the interim. We've been talking about it for a long time, and there's a law coming up now. We think it is very important that a half-yearly progress report should be drawn up, focusing on the process, but certainly also on the outcome. Is what we agreed on here working? I would like to say a few words about the terminology of the law. The law concerns social security. We think that term is too limited. You should use the term "safety." This includes social security, physical safety and psychological security. It is not a big issue, but it is important that we use the right terminology. Together with the SGP, my group proposes that a correction be made to the law on this point. We therefore want the concept of security to be used. It is very important that there should be a permanent point of contact for parents and students. Does the education inspector supervise that? We're actually assuming that. How are these contact points professionalised? What can a point of contact actually do? Of course, this falls within the freedom of a school and it is also very good that it is so arranged, but I would like to hear the Secretary of State's view on this, because he can stimulate a number of things. I come to the end of my speech. D66 likes to see this anti-bully law passed. Of course, the question remains whether everything we meet here will work. We need to see that. It's a good signal if the Chamber adopts the Anti-Pest Act. Then politics shows that it does a number of things. Each school has a social security policy, a coordinator and there is monitoring. The law may not be the most important thing. It is more about the plan of action and also the plan of the PO Council and the VO Council. I have also made a number of suggestions in my contribution to helping parents and children in particular and to increase their involvement. We therefore hope for a positive response from the Secretary of State to these suggestions. It is important to continue looking for what else we can do to tackle bullying, with each other, parents, children and politics. That way we can set the standard: away with bullying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mrs Bergkamp spoke at the beginning of her speech on teachers. Teachers play a crucial role, so we need to give them tools to signal bullying and to be able to intervene early. I have recently looked at what we all actually ask of teachers. We're asking a lot. Look at what kind of teaching packages and learning lines we all throw in education. They are about finance, radicalisation, healthy nutrition, sexuality, bullying, sustainability, media wisdom and traffic lessons. That's a real shame. The question is how far that goes. Where's the border? I don't want to say bullying is irrelevant or giving it a priority. If we ask so much of teachers, should we not choose to equip them and give them time and opportunity? Should we not ensure that there are more teachers, that there is more support and guidance in the classroom, so that they can fulfil the mission we give them as politicians?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mrs Siderius says a number of important things, and I share them. Of course, you have to be careful not to ask too much of education. I think you should follow it carefully and make choices in it. As a politician, you make choices with each other. The main goal of sexuality has been adopted by majority by the Chamber. We are talking about the anti-bullying law. If we accept it, it is also a subject. I agree with Mrs Siderius. I really think it is a fundamental condition that attention is paid to bullying. It's not for me to argue whether a safe environment for children is a subject that you should pay attention to. In the way that happens, schools are free. However, it is important. My colleague Paul van Meenen, of course, has drawn attention to this more often, and also to money. In addition, with all kinds of other agreements, he has ensured that more investment is made in education and that more support is provided in the classroom. I'll share that. You also need to see if teachers are able to follow that well with each other. You need to set a budget. That's what happened. However, you must remain critical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mrs Bergkamp is going exactly where I want to go, that money: the 600 million D66 hallelujah preaches that we invest in education. I do not want to be silly and ask Mrs Bergkamp here how many janitors have been appointed there or how many class assistants. She probably doesn't know that, because it's not known. No one knows. The Secretary of State doesn't know that either, because the 600 million go into a black box. We transfer money to school boards and they are entitled to know what they are spending it on. Often that money doesn't end up in the classroom at all. It doesn't end up with the student who needs extra support. It doesn't end up with the teacher who says he needs more tools to do his job properly. What's D66 gonna do about it? Will D66 together with the SP secure that money and say that it should be spent purely and exclusively on teachers, janitors and class assistants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u7	I'm a little confused. Mrs Siderius does not know where the money went, but all gives examples where the money would have gone wrong. That's what makes me feel better. We have chosen to make the money available to the schools, to give schools the confidence so that they can make choices. If you give that confidence, you shouldn't say in advance that the money went wrong. That's also a trade-off. I think it is very good that there is tailor-made work per school and that it will be checked whether that money has turned out well. We have given schools the confidence and they can use it very well, I think. We are on top of it together with the SP to make a good evaluation of it at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mrs Bergkamp talks about giving confidence to schools from politics. Can the Commission explain again how this view relates to the desire it apparently supports to ensure from The Hague that schools start to conduct anti-bullying policies in a certain way, with pest coordinators and with a lot of administration? I don't know D66 like that in the Education Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u9	D66, together with the VVD, has said that it is very important for the sector itself to come forward with an action plan. Mr Rog himself knows that there has been a very long discussion about the imposition of methods that would have been proven effectively. We have always expressed doubts about this. With our motion, we have made sure that there is room and that schools are free to choose. By the way, I did ask the Secretary of State to confirm that. So D66 has dealt with this together with the VVD. We made sure that there was room for schools. Of course, there are a number of issues that are covered by this law. We're behind that. So we are not concerned about how schools implement a social security policy, but we are concerned about the need for a policy. To be honest, I think that is a minimum condition. Kids spend a lot of their time at school. That is why I do not find it strange to demand that every school should have a policy on children's safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u10	The CDA agrees with D66 and the VVD when they say that we should not impose state teaching in schools from The Hague. However, Mrs Bergkamp now states that we are doing an extremely good job with this law. However, have not the schools themselves already taken the initiative? Isn't it a little strange that we should get a legal record of that as well? Mrs Bergkamp's action plan contains about everything that includes that part of the social security policy that the Secretary of State now imposes on schools with his law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u11	I know what the CDA's doing. It's trying to gather arguments to vote against this law. But there are actually no such arguments. There is a very clear evidence that 147.000 students do not feel safe at school. Surely that must be enough reason for politics to do everything it can. I say again: if the CDA has a very creative idea that is not in this law and that can solve the problem of bullying in schools, then I would like to hear it. Since we don't have that idea yet, I think it's good to look at things with each other. Something like a point of contact for parents and children is a minimum condition, isn't it? To schools that already have it, I say: fine, very good. They're already up to that. So that's where we'll meet the CDA. What's already there doesn't need to be extra arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u12	I see Mr Rog wants to react again. We are doing interruptions in two, in principle, but Mrs Bergkamp has asked Mr Rog a question. He can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mrs Bergkamp regrets that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u14	It's not the custom to do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u15	Mrs Bergkamp asks what we want. My question would be: what does this law add? The schools are already picking this up on their own. There's an action plan from here to there. That was drawn up in consultation with the Secretary of State. Then why the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u16	I think the CDA knows that this action plan has come about because politics, because Brigitte van der Burg and I have put pressure on it. We said, "Come on, sector, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. That plan should have been there ten years ago!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u17	That plan is here now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u18	That's the plan now. I think that with this law, with the action plan and with the Secretary of State's plan, we are doing everything possible to bully it. But I say again: if the CDA has a good alternative plan, I would like to hear it in the contribution of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. In each class, an average of two pupils are structurally bullied. This can have dramatic consequences, which the victim sometimes carries with him for life. Some children do not go to school with pleasure, are lonely, faalangst or become depressed. Some students even committed suicide. I call Tim Ribberink and Fleur Flowers. Fleur wrote an impressive poem in 2010. I like to read a part of it. I was different from the others. unlike the rest I don't know why. it started as a game It got out of hand. And ended up in hell for me. Not long after she wrote this poem, she died of suicide. The need to take action against bullying is therefore great. The Secretary of State and the Children's Ombudsman have actively taken up this issue. I know that MPs were also closely involved from the outset. I can see them in the room right now. So we took up the subject together. We have made work visits, we have organised round tables and we have been working on them for a long time. Furthermore, in the autumn, the PO Council and the VO Council drew up a nice action plan, also following the motion by my colleagues Bergkamp and Brigitte van der Burg. So we are now a big step further. The Christian Union welcomes the fact that the Secretary of State has withdrawn his previous bill, which would mainly lead to more administrative burdens and would also require schools to work with proven effective methods. We shouldn't fall back on noncommittality. That's how we created a tension field. How far do we go as a government? To what extent can we rely on schools to handle this very well? Some students are different from others, Fleur said. They're often wanted victims of bullies. How do you handle this as a school? As far as the Christian Union is concerned, this is not limited to safety policy in schools, to a method or a document. It is an integral part of the educational-didactic policy of schools. It's about culture and atmosphere. It's about teachers' commitment. It is about highly interwoven identity in schools, an eye for individual students, respect for everyone, despite the differences. In other words, a student who is different from others is just part of it. Is there an integrated safety approach that focuses on all kinds of safety for pupils and staff? This afternoon I had another conversation with nine primary school directors. They told me the same story. Some had 49 students at their school, others had more. They said: we know the students, we know the parents and we have conversations with the parents on the school square; we are not waiting for more protocols and more visits from the inspection, but we are doing our stinking best to keep an eye on the children. Schools of their own must have the freedom to choose their own approach. That is what the Secretary of State has chosen, and we welcome it. Luckily, the mandatory use of proven effective plague methods has been deleted. This is also explicitly requested by the Chamber in the aforementioned motion. The Education Council also advises not to keep schools to the use of pre-approved programmes. There must be room for alternative approaches so that they can prove themselves in practice. Nevertheless, in the explanatory memorandum and in the written reply, I see the list of proven effective methods returning, for example as regards the criteria for inspection. Does the Secretary of State allow schools to come up with their own approach, even if it is not on the list? I'd like a clasp-and-ready answer to that. I am considering a motion in the second term, should the Secretary of State's reply not be clear enough. In addition, there is criticism of the list of approved and rejected methods. 48 out of 61 programmes have been rejected, but how hard is it to prove that these programmes are not working? I hear from schools that they think the Rock and Water program is effective. I checked it out, in 2007 this program was approved by the Dutch Youth Institute. There were strong indications that it was effective. But now the program is suddenly rejected because of insufficient empirical evidence. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to the existing criticism on the inventory list. I would also like to draw your attention explicitly to horizontal accountability. The safety policy at school must be designed together with pupils, staff and parents in order to be truly successful. How do parents gain insight into, for example, security policy monitoring? Together with the SP and the D66 groups, we have tabled an amendment to strengthen the monitoring system when it comes to the influence of the participation council. I am curious to hear the Secretary of State's response to this amendment. I come to the role of inspection. According to the Council of State, the inspection already has sufficient scope to intervene if schools fail to achieve a proper social security system. However, the Secretary of State claims that the inspection does not yet have sufficient possibilities. He pointed out that the lack of a safety policy alone in the school guide for the inspection could be a reason for intervention. In what cases can the inspection not take place where the Secretary of State would like to? According to the explanatory memorandum, the inspection under the new law may impose substantive requirements on policy and its implementation, including on methods. But it goes much further than just a duty of care for schools. I thought schools were about the implementation of their security policy. To what extent should the criteria of inspection be developed? Of course, the inspection must monitor it. It has criteria for this, but to what extent can it increase those substantive requirements itself? I look with interest at Mr Bishop's amendment. In fact, it is not yet clear in the present legislative proposal which criteria the inspection will be subject to. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State to that amendment. Finally, I would like to mention the serious incidents that took place a few months ago at the vo-schools in Amsterdam. There was talk of extortion, threat and abuse of fellow students. The perpetrators were temporarily suspended. Some of the fellow students who were the victims are in safe houses. That's the upside-down world. I have put questions to the House, which the Secretary of State has now answered. It seems as if there is an act of embarrassment when it comes to the cooperation between the prosecutor, the police and the VO Council. Should we not move towards a kind of standardisation of cooperation between these organisations in the event of such serious incidents of violence, cases of extortion and so on? Surely we should think better about this than the Secretary of State is now doing in his answers to the parliamentary questions with reference to the Centre School and Security, especially in cases of violence and extortion? I ask the Secretary of State to examine with the sector, especially with the Public Prosecutor, the police, the VO Council and the municipalities, whether some sort of consultation can be organised, especially in the major cities, where this is more common, in order to intervene more quickly rather than to wait for a police report or a visit from the inspection. Until now, this has not led to major changes in Amsterdam. I await the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. Plagues and bullying will never disappear from the school. These things are inextricably linked with growth, with character development and with the development of one's own identity, which plays a role in peer groups. This will always go hand in hand with the search for borders and their crossing. The border between teasing and bullying is thin. It is the educational professional who has a leading role in this for centuries, but always based on common sense and wisdom. It is interesting to note that in this file the classic left/right sentiments are strongly present. Everywhere there are perpetrators, in this case the students who bully other students, and victims, the bullied students, the left-wing sentiment focuses on understanding the perpetrators. They're being talked to. They are confronted in an empathetic way. What is mainly avoided is actually tackling the perpetrators. It is also characteristic of left-wing wish thinking from the perspective that the school as an organization and the teacher as an individual professional should have the competences to offer society, in this case the parents, the guarantee, even the legal guarantee, to their child's social safety. That is the ultimate form of left-wing wish thinking, because we do not think this is possible. The Council of State agrees with us on this. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. In order to complete the reasoning of the left and right, the left-wing approach to socially unwanted behaviour, whether crime, terror or bullying, almost by definition leaves the victim in the cold. My inbox is full of heartbreaking stories from students and parents who feel like they're alone. They are stories of loneliness and misery and ultimately of the worst outcome for all parties: the bullied child who has to make the humiliating and traumatic course to another school while the perpetrators remain in their familiar surroundings. Mr Voordewind has also mentioned the very serious cases of bullying that appear pregnant in the media, which degenerate into violence or end up in an intensely sad suicide. In those cases, you immediately see that left-wing reflex of talking, consulting real experts, of self-appointed experts who then appear in talk programs where we all pretend to find a solution. That is a ritual form of tea drinking that never leads to solutions, because the left-wing adage remains that the perpetrators, the bullies, have their own issues and that they need that attention and understanding. The victims are referred to a resistance training or a fine course, with the implied message that they have called that fate upon themselves, because they must become resilient, they must adapt. The right-wing sentiment of ours, to put it mildly, focuses on naming the problem. This right-wing approach aims to set limits and cherish the victims, within the limits of our possibilities. We don't make wishful thinking. We don't want to do that either. And especially not wishing we couldn't make it happen. Our adage is that in a school that is truly socially safe, every student, including the student who somehow deviates more or less from the standard, must be able to be himself. Education is about teaching acceptance and respect for that which deviates from the norm to those other students. That acceptance is not self-evident, that makes sense. It must be enforced with educational ingenuity and not with a law that forces schools to make an obligation to achieve results rather than an effort. In my view, legally speaking, this obligation to achieve results is irresponsible. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State about that. This may, in the extreme, lead to the school being held, unexpectedly, liable for the death of a bullying victim. The PVV believes that the focus should be on the bully. The bully has a problem when he's compromising someone else's safety. Schools still deal with bullying very differently. There is no structural work to combat bullying. This is widely recognised. It's important to think about that. Schools already have a lot of obligations to deal with when it comes to bullying, but there is no clear approach. There are even schools that are still not or too little involved in this bullying. How's the bill gonna change that? There is already an effort obligation for schools, in the sense that school boards are required to draw up a school safety plan from 1 January 2006. Schools are already obliged to establish a complaint regime, to appoint a trusted person and to include information about it in the school guide. Schools are already using anti-bullying methods. It's all there, but it hasn't led to safer education. Why is this new law, which, in any case, requires results, going to do so? That's not gonna work. I'm gonna give it to the Secretary of State right now. It can also lead to a legal jungle in cases where things really get out of hand. It's not gonna work because all these other measures didn't work either. The purpose of this new law is three concrete things. There is a social security policy, such as a protocol, anti-bullying methods, and so on. The policy on bullying is coordinated. A person acts as a point of contact in the context of bullying. It is invested with the trusted person to be appointed. Finally, the monitoring of social security. We don't think that's new. The Education Council and the Council of State even advised the Secretary of State not to send the bill to the Chamber in this way. Can the Secretary of State explain to my group why he insists on presenting this bill in this form, while schools are already failing to comply with the anti-pest measures introduced and not even with the agreed list of anti-pest methods? Here's another thing about anti-bullying methods. The associate lecturer normative professionalisation at Utrecht University of Applied Sciences wrote a piece in the NRC in 2014. He stated that general protocols and anti-bullying programmes do not provide a solution to specific cases. Every plague situation is different. He states that no anti-pest method will be effective and that it does not matter whether it has been approved or rejected by OCW. A quote: "It is not surprising that the effectiveness of the anti-bullying programmes has not been demonstrated. Education is not a linear process of input and output. Students bring their own history and psychic condition. They can't always reflect on that in a rational way. Teachers also bring their personal history, experience and worldview. All these perceptions and views interact with each other, they affect each other. Besides, everyone is constantly changing perspective. Sometimes you're a bully, sometimes you're the bully, sometimes you sue, sometimes you walk along. Another time you'll be an outsider. Also the teacher. The idea, that if we do enough research, we will ultimately determine the decisive factors that bully "cause" or "solve" is fiction." I would very much like the Secretary of State to reflect on that. Our conclusion is that there is no ultimate solution to the problem of bullying. Let us acknowledge that; it cannot be prevented. However, there is a great deal we can do. What we can do is signal and make bullying a risky behavior by taking firm action if necessary. We can do that by registering incidents, including them in the student file, discussing them and eventually sanctioning them. By focusing on isolating the perpetrators, we're taking the bullied students best into protection. This bill will replace the repealed bill on incident registration of the Rutte I cabinet. That required schools to record incidents. In 2009 OCW pilots were commissioned. In 2011, this was all so far that it could be incorporated into a legal framework. In October 2010, the Council of State advised negatively, partly on the basis of problems with privacy law. What do we want to do now? One of these anti-bullying programs, the M5 approach, works with its own incident registration system and received the Dutch Privacy Mark in February 2015. As a result, this incident report with personal data has become possible without violating or ignoring privacy laws. What then prevents the Secretary of State from rigging an incident registration system without violating privacy, and to include the mandatory incident registration in this new law under the "monitoring" section? I'd like to hear a reaction to that. What does the PVV want? We would prefer to have this Act on compulsory incident registration back, but that is not going to work. That is why, in our view, it is wise to supplement the law as it stands with the mandatory incident registration as part of the monitoring of the social security of pupils and teachers. We also consider it important to include a sanctioning measure in this mandatory incident registration: the three strikes, you're out. In unsafe situations, in bullying situations, there should be a written and oral warning in the first place. In the second 'infringement', I would just like to mention that by the same perpetrator there will be a registration, followed by another intervention involving the parents, the student and the school management, and a final warning. On the third time, the school moves on to the removal of the bully. Is that fun? No, of course not; that's terrible. But it's been over for years, and it's always the victims who have to clear the field. It is time to make it clear that creating and maintaining unsafe behaviour for others is not accepted in schools. Are we gonna shove away the problem with that? I don't think so. Is that why we take students away from education? Absolutely not. The idea behind the three strikes out measure is precisely that it leads to self-conception with the bully, so that he or others who have seen the example will think twice before they go to bullying. The inclusion by a fellow school of pupils who are sent away can be arranged in agreements, in a neighbourhood or area. In many cases, that's what's happening now. In cases where pupils are more often sent from one school to another, i.e. in the case of real recidivists who do not learn from their mistakes, there is a role for youth care, for Bureau Halt and so on, not for regular education. Just a few outstanding things on the path to this law. The Kinderombudsman has spoken openly in the media several times in favour of the Finnish anti-bullying method KiVa and expressed himself negatively about other methods. In doing so, he exerts pressure on schools that have not opted for that KiVa method. The question that arises from us is whether it is wise for the Children's Ombudsman to speak so openly and explicitly in favour of the introduction of one or the other anti-bullying method. Would it not have been more appropriate if he had used his independent position to monitor the proper and correct conduct of the committee's work? I'd like to get a reaction to this. KiVa received €1 million from OCW for research in 2010. In 2015, KiVa receives 1.5 million euros from NWO (Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research) for research. Does this not put the KiVa method in a privileged position? Does this not create an uneven playing field? I'd like to get a reaction to that, too. I'm rounding up. Why do we not welcome this well-intentioned bill? Because it is precisely that: a bill of good intentions, on paper, which presents everything that is already there, in the form of anti-pest policy and anti-pest protocols. All the reasons why the Council of State advises not to send this bill to the House of Representatives, cut wood. Legal obligations already exist in all respects. However, it is not a question of a legal obligation. That obligation is not going to make schools safer or make teachers more alert. The only thing that matters is culture, the social and educational environment in a school. For that, the school leader is so decisive. That counts. How can there still be so many differences between schools in the approach to bullying? One school does a lot, the other nothing. In the schools that deal with them consciously, it continues to be agitated by changes in staff, by changes in function, by personal unrest, by organizational unrest, by ad hoc solutions and so on. That is the case, although we want schools to be beacons of peace and consistency. Let us recognise that schools cannot cope with the proposed obligations in this bill. Let's share the insight that schools and teachers have their limitations. Teachers are not psychologists. Schools aren't psychotherapy centers. Schools cannot deal with complex group dynamic processes in which all kinds of damaged children play a role. Then don't fake it. Know your limitations and refer at an early stage to the experts. Recognize is beautiful enough. Signaling, registering, talking, warning and tackling the bullies: schools have to do that. There must be a stick behind the door and that stick is called three strikes and you're out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. If this bill is adopted, schools will be obliged to provide the inspection with their safety data annually. If a school reports little to nothing that affects the safety of students and staff, is that a good school or not? Should we appreciate that positively towards that school or not? That question arises in the examination of this bill. With the glasses of science, you often see something different than the citizen sees it. Ask the police. The Centre for Crime Prevention and Security shows that residents experience certain neighbourhoods as unsafe, while according to the statistics they are as safe or even safer than neighborhoods known as safe. According to the center, the experience sometimes says more about the type of person than about reality. An important conclusion is that information about the experience cannot therefore be leading in advance. Another important conclusion is that we should not preach too much about the status of proven effectiveness and the role of science on the subject of security. The SGP would like to take a positive look at this bill, but it is precisely in these areas that it has the necessary concerns and questions. According to the SGP, it is merely a basic pedagogical principle that a school has to take care of the safety of its pupils. That duty of care already has the school towards the parents, because of the responsibility he bears for their children. It is only since 2006 that security policy has been legally mandatory, but then the legislator chose to leave the formulation of the policy to the school. Can the cabinet explain what ground-breaking insights require that this fundamental choice be abandoned in a relatively short space of time in order to steer more towards resources rather than leaving it explicitly to the schools themselves? The SGP supports the government's legal analysis that the scope of the law is now limited. The only question is why, in addition to a duty of care, all kinds of new resources are required at one stroke. The Education Council recently rightly pointed out that the government should focus more on the goals and less on the resources. The SGP has three key points in its assessment of this proposal: a realistic duty of care, no red tape and the position of small schools. I'll start with a realistic duty of care. The imposition of a duty of care is listening closely. We must prevent schools from doing injustice by wanting the impossible, which also means that we are losing broad support for security policy. The SGP notes that the cabinet is making positive movements, but also continues to run counter to contradictory signals. I would like to receive a response to three points. The first point I would like to comment on is this. The cabinet confirms that there is only an effort obligation and has therefore replaced the word "guarantees" with "care." That's good. In the reply, however, the cabinet states that the schools must even demonstrate that they guarantee safety. That doesn't make any sense. Besides, this is an impossible job. How can we set the bar for schools so high, even though one programme has not yet been fully approved by the bullying committee? Then we'll ask the schools. I come to the second point on which I would like to comment in this connection. Luckily, the cabinet clarifies that the duty of care applies to matters within the school's reach, but as an example, the school should also take action in the event of tensions between groups of young people outside the school which could also arise within the school. As a result, the gate of the square becomes proverbial and the uncertainty for the schools increases significantly. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? I come to my third point in this connection. In the objective sense of the bill, schools have to portray security, but the cabinet places a heavy emphasis on the security experience, i.e. on the subjective side. What's the point of this gap? The SGP finds the proposed duty of care for social security somewhat confusing. In the case of security, according to the cabinet, three aspects stand side by side, namely psychological, social and physical security. At the same time, the cabinet states that physical security is covered by social security. The definition of social security therefore includes, curiously enough, social security. You can't make chocolate out of that, can you? The cabinet therefore talks about social security in a narrower and wider sense. In addition, the law creates a difference between security policy and social security policy. Apparently, that's two different things. I would like to receive a response to the amendment tabled by Mr Bergkamp/Bisschop on part No. 9 with a view to achieving a more unambiguous interpretation. No matter how much we think about this bill, let us at least keep the terminology tight, otherwise it will create unnecessary confusion and only lead to a lack of implementation of the legislative proposal before us. Although the explanatory memorandum and the response offer formal scope for a personal approach to schools, this freedom is somewhat overshadowed by the strong emphasis and confidence in programmes, protocols and formalised practices. If we look the government deeply into the heart, it even turns out that she hopes that schools will bury themselves in scientific disputes about social security. However, the bill merely obliges policy-making. I would like to invite the government to comment on these diverse images. Can a school simply continue to implement the policy and be satisfied with agreements and practices that have been functioning satisfactorily for years in the context in which it operates? Why do so-called "proven effective programmes" get some kind of mandatory status in situations where there are security concerns? Once again, I would stress that not one programme has at present been fully approved by the bullying committee. Why, then, is there such a mandatory status in situations where there are concerns about safety? The SGP considers it important that schools have a good idea of safety. However, scientific research shows that it is very difficult to use the results of the monitor properly. The aforementioned Centre for Crime Prevention and Safety gives a nice example: "Various monitors in the municipality X pointed to a rapid deterioration of the safety experience. However, a different method of measurement was found to have been used in the last year. In this way, it was possible that the deterioration observed was only due to the differences in methods." How does the government deal with these insights, for example when it intends to compare school monitoring data? I come to the second part: no extra red tape. The government does not expect much red tape, because many schools are already researching the security experience. The SGP notes first of all that hundreds of schools apparently do not do so in the way the inspection considers sufficient. Moreover, the SGP would like to know to what extent all the schools which according to the inspection do carry out research also meet the government's expectations. Or could it be that many schools have to adapt their way of working through the proposal and have to be unified in this way? The SGP would like to hear how the government wants to avoid red tape on the following four points. The legislative proposal provides for the competent authority to provide a coordinator and contact point. Our first question is: is it true that the competent authority for all schools and establishments can suffice with one person? The government suggests that this bill, contrary to the repealed bill of law, provides for detailed insight at person level. At the same time, it is stated that schools have and supply anonymised data. Our second question is: what exactly is the situation and how do we keep it manageable? The government indicates that the monitor also provides an image of incidents that occur. Our third question is: can it confirm that this bill is not intended to be a separate registration as was the case in the aforementioned legislative proposal for incident registration? Our fourth question concerns the point where I started my contribution. Schools are required to provide the inspection with their safety data on an annual basis. The impression is that all schools must do this within a uniform mould. I'd like to invite the Secretary of State to fight this. Is there room for schools to simply send a copy of the results of their working methods? I imagine we're just making a screen print and schools are using it to justify themselves. We are now used to using screen prints, so that could be very good. Can the government also explain why the risk analysis in the Education Monitoring Act is not supplemented by social security? I come to the third part: the position of small schools. The Merger Review Committee notes that many small schools are putting their heads behind them because they are unable to cope with the increasing obligations. According to the SGP, the reason is that, among other things, the legal obligations often do too little to address the specific situation of small schools. So there is no educational fatigue or inability at these schools, but they are being over-asked. Too little account is taken of their specific situation. More is being asked of them than is useful and necessary. Can the government explain how it takes into account a small school of 40 pupils, for example? How should it operate in the context of the legislative proposal before us? The SGP believes that the use of an instrument in small schools should be widely understood. For example, the question is whether a small school as an instrument needs a questionnaire to get an idea of the safety and safety experience at that school. How much scope does the government have for achieving standardised information for inspection by other means? The Bishop/Bergkamp amendment offers room for this customization. I would like to await the response of the Secretary of State to this point. The SGP likes to see that the legislator is forcing himself to carefully examine what is actually regulated in the law. We should do that more often! With the way the road is paved for this proposal, the SGP is less happy. The government says that many schools already work that way. In recent years, however, this practice has been mainly caused by the improper pressure of the inspection. This is not only based on the experience of schools, but on concrete indications. We can provide them to the Secretary of State. The government's analysis confirms that schools have little obligation to do so. However, the inspection has suggested that schools have more obligations. I will end with the following question: how are we going to prevent this from happening in the future? In conclusion, I would like to ask once again the question I started with. Schools are required to provide the inspection with their safety data on an annual basis. If a school reports little to nothing that affects the safety of students and staff, is that a good school or not? Are we supposed to appreciate that positive or negative?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Chairman. National research shows that 80,000 children in special primary or ordinary primary education and 76 000 young people in secondary or special secondary education do not feel safe at school. The Education Report 2012/2013 of the Education Inspection shows that many schools have a social security policy and are working on such a policy. And yet 15% of the students questioned say they were bullied at school during the school year. This means that in each class an average of two pupils are structurally bullied; sometimes day in, day out. For lesbian, homosexual, bisexual and transgender pupils, abbreviated lhbt pupils, these percentages are much higher. This has a major impact on these bullied pupils in general and on the lhbt children and pupils in particular. Research shows that many bullied lhbt students have suicidal thoughts, as mentioned earlier, and that this even leads to suicide in 10% of these students. It also appears that the number of reports from inspection inspectors has increased in recent years. Finally, there have been several serious incidents in recent years. It is also indicated here that teasing and bullying is of all times. We should not have the illusion that we can remove that as a government. However, these figures and incidents have led the government, with its parents, its pupils, its schools and all kinds of parties in the field, to a plan of action to tackle social security and bullying explicitly within it. It is also explicitly stated that it is precisely those parents, those students, the teachers, the school boards, the school leaders and other stakeholders who are first to tackle this social problem, because that is where it belongs. The implementation of the action lines set out in this plan has already begun. That's good news. The final part of this plan of action against bullying is the present amendment of some education laws related to the introduction of the obligation for schools to provide a socially safe environment. This amendment of these education laws deals with a number of issues. The most important thing is that the legal explica tion of responsibility for social security puts the inspection in a position to be able to enforce those schools that only conduct policy on paper. At the moment, that's not possible. There are some plague protocols, but they end up in a drawer and then it's done. It's a good thing that that's going to change. In many schools, this has to be said too, these legislative changes will not have any effect because these schools are already doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr Bishop has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u24	If I am right, I heard Mrs Van der Burg say that this law would allow schools to be enforced, but schools have been able to do so for a long time. Luckily, it's happened a long time ago that a guy, a junior high or a tough guy "hey, gay!" yells and the other one screams, gets caught in the collar and he's added: that's not how we do this here? What else do schools need to be able to perform? Isn't bullying, first and foremost, a teaching problem? That is precisely what this law ignores. That's also the core objection. Do you share the approach that it is primarily a pedagogical problem, while this law is legalising it and that it is putting the horse behind the cart? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u25	I said that the inspection would be put in a position to ring the bell at those schools that are not enforcing. I have also said that fortunately a lot of schools are already doing well, but there is a category of schools where there are a lot of complaints and where parents are not getting anywhere. That category has also been named here. It is precisely in the interests of the schools that the inspection should be given the opportunity to discuss how things could be different. In most cases the inspection does so, but it is very important that attention should be paid to this and that these students should also be able to go through their learning careers in a socially safe school environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u26	What instruments is the inspection currently lacking in order to be able to enforce such a dossier? Well, I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u27	I've studied that extensively, because I didn't understand it at first either. It works differently from most other policy areas. If quality standards are set in education, it appears that the inspection cannot ultimately impose any sanctions. She can go to that school. The inspection may appeal to that school, but it is also powerless. The only way a sanction can be imposed on schools is by making it necessary. That's what happens with this bill. I think it's a good thing to settle things that way. I would also like to point out that, as far as I am concerned, the schools have to take care of this themselves. I've said that before in this Chamber. It is extremely important that they have picked up that glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u28	I'm gonna let those last sentences work on me for a while. I very much agree with Mrs van der Burg that schools should do it themselves. So you don't need legislation. However, my interruption concerns the opinions we have received from the Education Council and the Council of State. On the contrary, they indicate that the inspection does have instruments to intervene. I would like to mention, for example, the financial sanctions. A school can also be described as weak when it comes to the social security environment. What, then, does Mrs van der Burg think is lacking in the possibilities that the inspection currently has?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u29	I think the Education Council had a different opinion. This was particularly about the imposition of methods. Mrs Bergkamp and I have tabled a motion calling on the schools, the VO Council and the PO Council to deal with this themselves. That part was taken out of the law. I am very happy with that, because I do not think that we should be talking about how. The Council of State is indeed saying that these possibilities already exist. The government is also giving a clear answer to this. The special feature is that the Council of State gives a different opinion on Mr Bishop's own-initiative proposal. I have asked a lot of questions, both from the experts and from our own spokesman. It appears that there is nothing we can do now if it is a quality requirement and not a necessity. That seems undesirable to me if children do not find a pedagogical environment in which they are given some protection at school.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u30	I find it strange that Mrs Van der Burg ignores the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State even says that the bill should not even be sent to the Chamber, as the possibilities are already there. May I perhaps point out to Mrs van der Burg that the Ibn Ghaldoun school in Rotterdam, partly on the basis of the fact that there was a socially unsafe climate, was closed by this State Secretary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u31	I have heard how that has been done, but I would like to leave the answer to the question of how the Secretary of State could have closed that school and whether he actually had the title for it to himself. I'd like to direct that question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u32	There you go!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u33	It strikes me that the VVD here states that the field must solve it, that the schools are responsible and that they should go into conversation with parents and students to solve the plague problem, which is growing enormously, Mrs van der Burg has rightly mentioned the figures. Mrs van der Burg says that the influence of the government will have little effect on this. But shouldn't the VVD group be putting their own hands into their own bosoms and looking at whether politics has any fault that it is constantly increasing, for example by increasing the scale of education, larger classes and less support in the classroom? As a politician in recent years, with the cuts in education, have we not ensured that there is much less supervision of the school square and of the school classes? This has only made bullying worse and more frequent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u34	I believe that the debate is now being extended to the whole of education and what has happened in recent years. I noticed that in your contribution. I do not think this is desirable for this debate. It is striking that a very large proportion of schools manage to create a socially safe environment. But there are also schools that seem to be underestimating this. I think it is a good thing that we have the inspection to discuss this with the schools. But it is also good that there is a point of contact for parents and children and that we have some monitoring to see how a school is doing in this area. Because those are other things that are dealt with in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u35	Sending the inspection everywhere, so repression, of course, is not the answer. I regret that the VVD is avoiding reflecting itself on the question of what politics has done. It is very easy to say that I look at the problem far too widely. You cannot see this problem in the eyes of the SP apart from the other things that happen within education. Sometimes schools are huge learning factories. There are mbo schools where, before you can go in, you have to go through a gate, a safety detector. That's because these schools are so big that otherwise there's no supervision. How can it be that students there are trampled and bullied, bullied and isolated and sometimes eventually come to acts that sometimes scare politics? Suicide has already been mentioned, but there are also students who go into school with weapons and do wrong things with it. Surely the VVD can't look away from that, nor can it look away from its own role? Shouldn't there be much more scale reduction in education to increase the supervision of pupils? Does the VVD agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u36	I have just said that Mrs Siderius is trying to broaden the debate to an entire education debate. The MBO doesn't even fall under this law. That answers this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u37	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u38	Only a point of order, but I cannot imagine that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u39	No, I can't imagine that either. The conclusion is perhaps that the VVD apparently does not have an answer to these questions and very easily mucks them away. You really should reflect on your own political behaviour over the last ten years, I say to Mrs van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u40	That is such a typical SP trick: then we are going to draw a conclusion. You are taking the debate completely out of the subject at hand. This bill does not concern the MBO. That's what your question was about. I think it is good that you are having that debate with the education spokesperson... now you are going to talk through it again, outside the microphone. I don't think that's very fancy. I want to stick to this issue in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u41	I keep it very chic and through the microphone. I have a question about this bill. Mrs Van der Burg said that the obligation is fortunately over. She has tabled a motion on this subject together with Mrs Bergkamp. My question is: do you think in the explanatory statement enough guarantees that the obligation has indeed been removed? When you read the texts formulated on page 7 of the explanatory memorandum, but the reply to the written report, you read that reference is always made to "proven effective programmes." Then I refer immediately to the list we had from the NJi. Do you have enough guarantees and guarantees that this Secretary of State will allow schools to use their own methods with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mrs. Voordewind... uh, I mean, Mrs. Van der Burg. Yeah, it was pretty late for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yeah, I've got plenty of guarantees. We didn't file that motion for nothing. We have discussed this intensively, including with the parties that we have called for this motion to be put to work. Fortunately they have done so; I will say something about that in a moment. I believe that questions have been put to the Secretary of State on this matter, and you too, Mrs Bergkamp, have done so in order to ensure that the list we were talking about is completely gone. The motion meant that we would sort it out, but not the way. I am confident that it will be all right now, but let us be clear: if we have a debate here and the Secretary of State confirms that again, I think that is part of the legal process. Then you too can have confidence in that, if you don't have it now. I've got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u44	Then we're gonna wait and see together. I also hope that if we do not get clear answers from this Secretary of State, we will be able to work together, perhaps with Mrs Bergkamp, in order to obtain that clarity by means of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u45	I am convinced that this clarity is simply in the legislative proposal and that the Secretary of State will confirm it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u46	I explained in my first term that, as far as we are concerned, this bill is not going to add so much, at least that it is not going to add teeth to what is already there. Does Mrs Van der Burg agree with me that those teeth would be there if the registration and sanctioning option were added to this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u47	I got the amendment. I haven't read it right yet. I will certainly do that before the votes. I'll wait for the Secretary of State's response. I can say that my group was pleased that the incident registration bill had been withdrawn. That would have meant a huge administrative burden. That is why we were happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mrs van der Burg's predecessors in Rutte I had a very different opinion on this. It doesn't involve that much bureaucracy. It is a simple registration, which anyone could complete. It's not that hard. The amendment is there, but I explained it quite extensively in my first term. You can respond to that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u49	Sure, I've indicated how we looked at the incident registration law. I think that's what I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u50	It's about the sanctioning option. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u51	...and the sanctioning option. I believe that we have had another debate on this during one of the general discussions, in which I indicated how I felt about it. That three strikes and you're out approach also has consequences for all kinds of schools they have to accept.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u52	I explained that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u53	You have explained all this, but we as a group think differently. I explained that to you at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u54	So it remains a toothless law, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u55	That's your opinion. I don't think it is, because we're dealing with a number of things. I had just indicated what is also regulated in this law, namely contact points for pupils and parents, and also that monitoring shows how pupils experience social security at school. I have three further supplementary questions to this Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to know how the Secretary of State with the PO Council, the VO Council and the schools ensure that parents and pupils also see how pupils experience social security at school and how safe their school environment is. We think it is very important for parents to be able to inform themselves in advance of how a school is in this area, so that they can make a choice. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consult with the PO Council, the VO Council and the schools on how to make that available, for example on the school's website? It's a modern age. Is it possible to make that information available via an app so that parents can easily compare schools in this area? I'd like to hear a reaction to this. Secondly, I would like to know how, given the worrying figures on the safety of IBT children, an extra finger is being kept on the wrist. So I am not arguing for an additional category, because that makes it all very complicated again, but the figures for this group were quite worrying. How are we gonna keep an extra eye on each other? Finally, I would like to know whether the implementation of a social security policy includes the warning of child abuse. In combination with the duties that schools have under the Meldcode domestic violence and child abuse, I also want to know if children who are not safe at home are at school. Can they discuss that they do not have a safe home environment? The school does not have to solve this, but it must be negotiable, so that these children can get help and support from youth aid and youth protection, if necessary. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? For example, the youth task force has indicated that for children who do not have a safe home, the school is the only place where they are safe. If they cannot go there to discuss their problems, we must look at them. This also applies when the parent is called while the child has just reported that it is being abused by this parent, with all the consequences if the child returns home. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to express my appreciation that all parties, parents, pupils, teachers, school leaders, school administrators, together with the Secretary of State and the Kinderombudsman, have sat down to take their responsibilities and come up with a plan of approach to raise social security for pupils at school. I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State for the speed with which the Bergkamp/Van der Burg motion has been carried out and also for the fact that the gauntlet has been picked up by the PO Council and the VO Council with the schools. I'm glad this worked out. Thank you to all those involved. We will be following with great interest the roll-out of this plan. A plan is beautiful, but it is about its impact in practice and its impact on a socially safe environment for pupils. The VVD Group wishes all parties much success and looks forward to the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr. Chairman. Like all other groups, the CDA Group, of course, hates the fact that 15% of pupils in primary and secondary education do not feel safe or are bullied. Every child deserves a safe social environment, especially at school. The CDA therefore finds with the Secretary of State that we should take the problem of bullying seriously. Schools shouldn't look away when children are bullied. Teachers and school leaders, together with pupils and parents, have an important responsibility for creating that safe social environment. The CDA would therefore like the government to encourage this joint responsibility rather than to come up with its own rules again which it imposes on schools. This leads to more control pressure rather than less bullying. That is why we welcome the Social Security Action Plan at school. For the Acts, I would add that this action plan was an initiative of Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Van der Burg's motion, which was widely adopted by the Chamber. It was a push from politics that was picked up by the schools. That's very positive. The PO Council and the VO Council have come up with a concrete, clear action plan - an action plan from society. The CDA wants to embrace this approach instead of further suffocating with new Hague rules and laws. In addition, the law suggests that, as a policy, we will solve the problems of bullying in schools. Schools will have to make an effort to ensure a safe school environment. My question is: do they not now? The Secretary of State has now stressed that this is not a result obligation, but an effort obligation. That's a big deal. But will this mandatory monitoring and compliance with a valid standardised method under the line ultimately not mean that schools can be paid for on the results achieved or the method used? The CDA very much agrees that schools can be expected to make every effort to combat bullying. But also a Hague law will not prevent children from being bullied, no matter how terrible that may be. That is why we do not want schools to be taken into account, but schools to be called upon to do so in the event of social insecurity. Moreover, it is very much the question of whether far-reaching additional legislation is necessary and useful if you are to see what schools already have to comply with. The Council of State has correctly listed this in its opinion. According to the Council of State, schools are already obliged to take care of social security. They should include information about that in the school guide. They must develop and implement policies in this area. Parents can influence this through the participation council and can hold schools liable if they fail to fulfil this obligation. The inspection shall monitor that actual implementation and the school environment, as also emphasised by the Education Council in its opinion. Deficiencies can already lead to the qualification of "weak school" and even to financial sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u57	I hear the CDA say that schools are being taken care of. I read in the legislative proposal that the education inspection can intervene at a time when this is necessary, looking at the results of the monitor, and, in the extreme, sanctioning. Is that what the CDA means, that the education inspection should not intervene if the situation is so bad, evidently from the monitor? Or does the CDA mean something else?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u58	I am glad that Mrs Bergkamp is asking this question. If I haven't been clear about that, I'd be happy to clarify it. I don't want schools to be dealt with by a particular method. That is a question raised by a number of political groups, including Mrs Bergkamp's. I hope, therefore, that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u59	I understand that this is about the method and that the CDA agrees that the education inspection should be able to intervene in a sanctioning manner at a time when this is necessary. Let that be just the hook in the law needed for the education inspection to be able to act sanctioningly, in order to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u60	That is precisely why I wanted to conclude my speech on this point and continue before I had this interruption. I think I have made it quite clear that this possibility already exists for the education inspection. I shall of course be very happy to hear from the Secretary of State who will confirm that statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u61	I think I asked an unclear question. Can we then assume that if it turns out that disciplinary action by the education inspector is not possible, the CDA embraces this bill? That is the essence, as it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u62	That is, of course, a very clever question from Mrs Bergkamp. This bill contains a number of elements. I would point out that the Council of State has made it very clear that the inspection can intervene. We also know that the inspection intervenes and that this also happens if parents complain. Honestly, I'm not afraid of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u63	In addition to Mrs Bergkamp's question. The inspection can now only intervene if the school has not included in the school guide that it is pursuing security policy. This bill ensures that the education inspection can actually fine a school when it is not sufficiently safe. So that's really something else. I don't understand where the CDA is getting that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u64	One of the aspects on which Ibn Ghaldoun was successful was the social security environment at that school. So I do see that opportunity. Moreover, as we have already pointed out, the inspection can intervene if parents ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u65	Then let me draw all the conclusions right away. I am getting the feeling that Mrs Bergkamp has also spoken, namely that it seems that the CDA is simply looking for a vote against. The SP also doesn't run all hallelujah the polonaise through the House of Representatives because he thinks it is such a fantastic bill. We believe that bullying in particular is being portrayed and that it is not being dealt with. It's gonna take a lot more than that. For the CDA, is it really just on this piece, the education inspection and the intervention, or are there any other feelings that contribute to the CDA Group's referring this bill to the trash can?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u66	This bill contains three points. I will deal with that later. My group is critical of a number of points. As far as inspection and the possibilities available are concerned, I have a different view at the moment than Mrs Siderius. In this I am supported by the Council of State. With Mrs Van der Burg, I say: let us just wait and see what the Secretary of State has to say about this. The suggestion that the CDA would be looking for a vote against is far from my point of view. I'd almost say the CDA isn't like the SP in there. Sorry, Chairman. The CDA takes the three elements of this bill and looks critically at it. Are we reassured on one of those elements? Could we perhaps amend them by means of amendments? If that is the case, then of course we will be able to rely on the law on that element. On the elements on which we are not reassured, we will reject the law. I think that's the way it works in this house. That's our role. That is why we are asking critical questions to the Secretary of State in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr Rog just asked me a question about the Ibn Ghaldoun school. The Secretary of State could have intervened there on the basis of the current law. The inspection would have had every opportunity to do so. Mr Rog is very convinced of that. So I assume he too can now explain to us on the basis of what possibilities in the law exactly that could be done. We'll find out later what the Secretary of State's answer is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u68	On the basis of my intervention, we have already agreed that the Secretary of State will respond to this. I think that's very sensible. I have just looked at the conclusions of the inspection on the situation at the Ibn Ghaldoun school. There were four or five points in it. One of the points was the lack of social security at that school.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u69	I note that Mr Rog no longer states that, on the basis of the current possibilities, the Secretary of State was indeed able to intervene at the Ibn Ghaldoun School. I have heard some things, but I think it is appropriate for the Secretary of State to explain this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u70	Yeah, we'll find that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u71	So this means that Mr Rog no longer says: could he just do that? That is actually the conclusion after the answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u72	I think we're repeating ourselves. I don't need that much. I would point out what I said in the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u73	I think it is important for the Acts to say here that the Ibn Ghaldoun school was not studied on social security, but on a number of other points. On that basis, the inspection was able to intervene. It was only on the basis of these findings, for example financial matters, that social security research was carried out afterwards. However, this school was not primarily addressed in the field of social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u74	No, I'm not saying that the school was initially addressed on social security. I merely point out that social security was one of the indicators on the basis of which this school was finally closed by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u75	No, that's not right. That social security was simply not hard work. With this bill, social security becomes a tough ground. That is precisely why my group is very much in favour of it. I hope that the Secretary of State can shed some light on this and that this clarity will draw the CDA's attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u76	We are therefore going to await the answers of the Secretary of State on this point. Mrs Ypma knows that the CDA also voted in favour of perseverance. So we do want action to be possible if it goes wrong in a school. So I can reassure Mrs Siderius once again: the CDA is not looking for a reason to vote against. However, we consider all three aspects carefully. I come back to those three main points of the law. Firstly, there is social security. We have dealt with that point. Secondly, there is monitoring and administering. Thirdly, there is the appointment of this pest coordinator. I conclude once again that almost all schools are already pursuing a social security policy. I also conclude once again that the PO Council and the VO Council themselves have taken the initiative, partly encouraged by the Chamber, to draw up that action plan. That's very important. In addition, the development of that action plan has been coordinated with the State Secretary. Then why are we going to put that back into legislation? Do we have to underline with legislation other sectoral agreements or plans that we adopt in consultation? Doesn't the Secretary of State trust the schools? Or is he afraid that the agreements will not be kept? The remaining two parts of the law mainly involve administrative obligations. They intervene in the freedom of establishment of schools. To speak with Dijsselbloem: the Secretary of State not only determines what, so that there must be a social security policy that actually exists already, but also how, namely that schools appoint a pest coordinator, that they monitor and administer and that they use a valid and standardised method. That raises a number of questions. I've got five. The Secretary of State renounces his original plan for a list of anti-bullying methods prescribed by the State, but to what extent does the current plan for obliging schools to adopt a valid and standardised method differ from what he originally wanted? Are the proven effective methods not the same as the valid and standardised methods? Do schools keep the freedom to choose a method of their own? The Secretary of State states that there are anti-bullying methods that are not effective or even counterproductive. He's said that several times in the media. How many of 61 anti-bullying methods examined have been accepted or rejected by OCW? How much research money has OCW spent on KiVa and how much has it spent on the other anti-pest methods? Can the Secretary of State explain once again what instruments he currently lacks to intervene if social security at school is not in order? The Secretary of State actually confronts schools with a result obligation if there is no more bullying in schools. However, the Council of State notes that the instruments in the legislative proposal will in no way lead to bullying being stopped. Does the Secretary of State think that the adoption of this law will mean that there will be no more bullying? It is good that the Secretary of State also pays attention to social security and citizenship in education. Pupils' well-being benefits from a broader definition of educational quality than the school proceeds from the key objectives of language and mathematics. In recent years, the focus on these yields has been the only factor determining quality in the eyes of the CDA. Good education is more than language and arithmetic, it must also be about the broad education of our children in a socially safe environment. The CDA does not believe in a solution with even more red tape for schools and even more legal obligations from The Hague. The CDA relies on the professionalism of teachers and school leaders and on clear rules of conduct and involvement of parents and students in the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u77	The CDA clearly indicates that it can rely on education, on the teachers. But bullying turns out to be a constant. That's striking. You can see it growing, too. The CDA itself says that under political pressure a plan of action by the PO Council and the VO Council has come forward with which we are very pleased. I'm trying to figure out what's bothering the CDA about this bill right now. Is it so weird that there has to be a bully coordinator, a point of contact for parents and children? Is it so weird that you're asking schools to check on that security thing? Those aren't weird demands, are they? The CDA itself says that a lot of schools already do that. So schools don't have to do anything extra. I'm genuinely trying to figure out why the CDA has so much trouble with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u78	I think it's a good thing that schools take the initiative and take it for themselves. They do. Moreover, D66, the party to participation, can rest assured that the current social security environment is the subject of discussion in participation. Parents therefore have an influence on schools. I would prefer this to be done on the basis of intrinsic belief and a method whereby parents, teachers and school leaders feel happy and in which they themselves have intrinsic confidence, rather than that we impose things and prescribe a bully coordinator. I think that this is an Hague rule reflex that is going to give rise to false safety and does not reflect the initiatives that are currently taking place in the schools. Let us just wait for initiatives from society and see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u79	On the message of waiting, the children who have been bullied out of school for years have nothing at all. Of course, we have a lot of confidence in the plan of the VO Council and the PO Council. It is very good that this is there, but I also think it is a kind of symbolic expression of the regulatory pressure from The Hague. Let me give you an example of what the CDA is all about: the monitor. Schools are free to choose a monitor. All they have to do is keep track of how safe a school is. That's not such a crazy demand for schools, is it? I think there is an image of a lot of rules being added. Because I've never read such a bald bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u80	We usually have another spokesman for D66: Mr Van Meenen. He always tries to impose as little as possible on the schools from The Hague. I recognize that sound from D66. In that respect, I am a little surprised at the choice made by Mrs Bergkamp. That's up to her. I say on behalf of the CDA that we have seen that plan of action with her. What's against giving that a chance? Why do we allow this plan to enter into force if we go through it together with legislation from The Hague? I do not see that reasoning. I am extremely critical of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mrs. Bergkamp, we're doing two-way interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr President, it was a kind of entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u83	No, this wasn't entrapment. We're doing interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u84	My colleague is mentioned. I feel the need to say something about that. The CDA is reacting in a very lame way. We as D66 look at that in one way. Of course, we think freedom of education is important, but we agree with this bill. It's minimal, it's not much we ask of schools. I'm really disappointed...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u85	You're repeating yourself. Mr Rog will be able to respond and then we will continue with Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u86	I think it's important to finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u87	No, we're doing interrupts in half. You just did it, didn't you? If everyone's doing interruptions in half, so should D66. We're all equal here in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u88	I thought it was a form of entrapment, but if you don't appreciate it, I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u89	I think we've had this discussion. Let us embrace this action plan from within the sector itself, let us express confidence in it. Please, let's not go through that with legislation. Mrs Bergkamp co-founded this initiative. Let's see how that works out. I think that's the best way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with a poem by Vera-Lynn of 11 years old. I'm waking up. Through a ray of sun through my curtain. I know I'm... Today should be happy. But that's not gonna work. Every day of school. 'Cause every day Hurts my heart again. It's not spades. But it does hurt. Bullying causes life-long scarring for children like Vera-Lynn. It prevents young people from developing well. They feel lonely and cannot learn well in an unsafe learning environment. Unfortunately, there are 80,000 children in primary education and 67,000 children in secondary education, such as Vera-Lynn, who do not feel safe at school. On average, two children are bullied in every classroom. Only one in five plague situations are detected. There is therefore a great need to improve social security in schools. That is why I would like to begin by congratulating the sector, which accepts its responsibility, on the Children's Ombudsman, on my colleagues, all of whom are very involved in this issue, but also, above all, on the Secretary of State. He has come up with this bill which makes school safety a core task for schools. The Labour Party supports that clear standard and better signaling and tackling bullying. By legally anchoring the responsibility of schools, we set this clear standard and expect schools to put social security and bullying management at the top of the agenda. Through the monitoring, we ensure that the results are looked at more closely. I would ask the Secretary of State if he would also like to have a responsibility through windows or in the annual report. I think it's okay if that gets insightful for everyone. The Labour Party really only wants to add three things. I would ask the Secretary of State to respond. The first is that teachers receive better guidance and training to prevent, signal and tackle bullying behaviour, to create a safe learning environment. The second point is that much more attention will be paid to a secure digital learning environment. The third point is that more attention will also be paid to child abuse in schools. I'll come back to this in great detail. Tolerability, tolerance and equivalence are essential. There must be sufficient attention to this at school, now and in the future. Whether we are talking about lhbt children, about which the figures are really shocking, or about children who feel like second-class citizens and who struggle with their identity, for example through Islamophobia, or about children who are being blackmailed, it is all terrible. Victims can hardly stop bullying on their own. They often hide, but have the right to be helped. In addition, they must be helped by the school. Bullying isn't noncommittal. Behavior of children must be normalized so that school is a safe place for everyone. Children often do everything they can to obtain the highest possible position on the status ladder. Meepers often do this out of fear. Stopping is not an option, because then they will be bullied themselves. At the top of the status ladder is a bully that sometimes shows problematic, but sometimes also very common behavior towards adults. The disadvantages for bullies are often small. Sanctions are rarely imposed. Apologies, a time-out, suspension or in severe situations of school removal can help. But the big challenge is to prevent bullying by early detection and to nip bullying in the bud. The school can do this by setting a clear standard of how children should deal with each other. Teachers can do this by taking the position at the top of the monkey rock and by standing above the classroom. Then it is not a pseudo-boyfriend of the bully who is at the top of the status ladder and takes some bullies, but the teacher who sets the standard. Research shows that bullies are the first to step out of their role and thus deprive the bully of his status. A teacher can set this standard and is supported by this law. That's how bullying is prevented. In addition, the teacher can better signal by asking questions such as: who starts bullying, who helps you, who are the helpers of the bully? By investigating this and then making it discussable, confronting children and not forgetting to involve parents, safety is restored. So teachers deserve our help. Teachers need extra attention to the ways in which they can promote social security in their classroom; through awareness, responsibility in the classroom, in the breaks in the schoolyard, but also outside the school, to and from school. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that there is an important role here for the mentors at school? They should have sufficient time to mentor, for example, so that they can go on home visits instead of having parent conversations at school. A great deal of attention needs to be paid to the standard applied at school in all ages, but especially in junior high.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u91	I hear Mrs Ypma very emphatically not mention anti-Semitism as a ground for bullying, but Islamophobia. I can imagine that those mentors she speaks of, for whom there is so much uncertainty, would very much like to know what Islamophobia is. A phobia means that there is a sick deviation that looks at something. Agorafobie, square fear, is something sick, not real. Can she explain what Islamophobia is, because I don't know that term very well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u92	I mean something as terrible as anti-Semitism. I fully agree with Mr Beertema that this is unacceptable. If you replace the Islamic children for the Jewish children, it is exactly the same. That is what I mean by anti-Semitism, but towards children with Islamic faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u93	I understand that, but I still haven't heard a concrete example. Can you give us some concrete examples? When children say that not all Islamics are terrorists, but almost all terrorists are Muslims, is that bullying or is that just a real observation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u94	I would like to refer Mr Beertema to a very up-to-date report written by the Anne Frank House on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u95	I know, that's that very objective organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u96	Absolutely. It has drawn shocking conclusions, for example that it is still very common that children do not feel safe at school, whether they are anti-Semitism or Islamic children. That report makes it very clear how many times that still occurs and also what teachers can do to prevent it. That is exactly what I am trying to do with this, but I do not think that our paths are different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u97	No, Mr. Beertema, if you interrupt again, we'll end up in casuism. Besides, we're doing two interruptions. I shall now return to Mrs Ypma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u98	Although this bill is a step in the right direction, we are far from there, so recent incidents on social security and cyberbullying prove. With only a legal obligation, we don't deal with bullying. At the same time, we must focus on a cultural change in education. Teacher training should pay particular attention to this theme. This is still happening very little, the Centre notes School and Security. During the course there should be extra attention to group dynamics; especially at the beginning, when the group is formed, with the various anti-bully programs that have proven in practice that they work. There is also a need to broaden the supply of continuing training for teachers already in the classroom. It should pay attention to bullying. We ensure that children are no longer alone when they are bullied, that teachers are well trained and know what to do, and that it does not help to give the child a resilience training and remove the bully, because it has not solved the problem. Bullying doesn't stop at the gate of the schoolyard; it didn't, and it certainly isn't the case anymore. Cyber bullying goes fast and hard and haunts children even after school. Teacher training and continuing training should pay particular attention to this. Bullying is done through social media and e-mail, in a terrible way. There is not enough attention for that. There's gotta be another way. The Labour Party calls for greater awareness, and for the use of technological opportunities to tackle and prevent cyberbullying. Particular attention should be paid to this in the monitoring of social security. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actually include cyberbullying in the monitoring? When tackling cyberbullying, we must strongly support non-profit organisations that bring this issue to the attention of students. I would like to mention one example: the Importunus Foundation, which uses a method that is already used successfully in England at 85% of schools. That foundation indicates that one in ten young people between 11 and 15 years old are being bullied digitally. There are a lot of them, so this really needs to get more attention. And you can. There are many possibilities, for example an analysis of the search terms in all social media used in schools. Fortunately, there are all kinds of technological possibilities to use. I would like these to be used more. Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform the Chamber specifically about cyberbullying, in an information letter that is still coming or in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u99	I was a little afraid that the contribution of the Labour Party would again be super enthusiastic and complimentary towards the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u100	Yeah, it's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u101	This was also the case in March 2013, when the plan of action came forward. Mrs Ypma was also very enthusiastic at the time; she thought that was a good step forward. After this report, the bill was more or less smashed, because the effective anti-bullying methods have been removed. Now there are three things left: the image, the bully coordinator and the policy mentioned. The Labour Party says that we need to tackle cyberbullying and that teachers need to have much better tools, but then you're actually too late. Then you're sticking Band-Aids, because the problem has already occurred. What will the Labour Party do to prevent bullying? How does the Labour Party ensure that we do not even get to the stage where we have to develop all kinds of apps or organise training courses to tackle bullying? What is she going to do in front of the process to make bullying disappear from schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u102	Thank you for this question. There are three things. Firstly, a clear standard must be set at the front. It must be clear to all children how to deal with each other at school. Preferably, there will be a signature or, in primary school, a thumbprint of the children underneath. Then it's very clear how they deal with each other there. Secondly, bullying needs to be better seen. One in five plague situations is detected. That's gotta be better. Thirdly, if something happens, it must be smothered right into the bud. That's how we prevent bullying from escalating. A good educational environment is essential for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u103	I asked the Labour Party spokesperson what she's going to do to prevent bullying and then I get the answer that every child will be treated like a criminal and if he's four, his fingerprints will have to turn in to school. The bullying is detected and when it occurs, it is smothered in the bud. However, preventing bullying means making sure that it doesn't happen, that you intervene in the step before that. What will the Labour Party do? You're not buying anything for fine words about an educational school climate. What is the Labour Party going to do to organise a good educational school environment? Think of smaller classes, more support in the classroom and small-scale education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u104	At least I'm not standing on the sidelines saying that it's all bad. My words about a thumbprint are twisted, like I'm talking about criminals. I'll leave that on Mrs. Siderius's behalf. We want to ensure that enough money goes into education. We have done so, because we have previously, together with the constructive coalition partners, ensured that extra money goes to education. We have made this available for more and better hands for the class. More hands for the class means you can do something with the class size. In every debate on better hands for the classroom, I have specifically drawn attention to two issues: dealing with differences in classrooms and improving social security, indicating bullying in time. I think I have been quite consistent in this. I forgot one more thing about this point, namely that initiatives such as Meldknob.nl should also be on display at all educational institutions on the screen. Via Meldknob.nl you can easily report cyberbullying, in any way that has happened. It's a wonderful initiative. Maybe the Secretary of State Meldknob.nl can take us sometime if he informs us about cyberbullying. Then I come to my third point, child abuse. The Youth Task Force has indicated that there is an important role for schools and teachers in the negotiation of child abuse. Teachers often have a role of trust for children who are abused. They can knock on their door. On average, there is one child in a school class who is neglected at home, witness violence or even experience violence or abuse. That's a lot of them. It is important that schools radiate that they are a safe place where children can talk about this subject. I hope that will also receive sufficient attention. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State on this. I end by expressing my admiration for teachers who decide to make bullying discussable. I would like to give an example of this. The other day, a teacher told me that her class wasn't really a group. The class consisted more of islets of children, separated by large seas. There was one girl who was all alone on her island. She was the girl who came to school with those shoes with lights and wheels underneath, the girl who doesn't belong. She let herself be worked for everyone's cart in the hope of being liked. "Hey, why don't you go get me a sandwich, 'cause you'll be with the baker faster than I am." In the hope that she would make friends, she came back soon, but then she was laughed at, yelled at and ignored. She was alone on her island. The connection was far away and the loneliness was suffocating. Not only between the students, but also between the teacher and the classroom there was a great distance. The teacher decided that this could no longer be done; she decided to make the unnegotiable discussable. She asked in the classroom who was ever bullied at elementary school, who was ever bullied at high school, and then it got very exciting when it became who was still being bullied. The teacher hoped the girl with the skating boots would come true. And the girl dared. She came out and burst right into tears. The teacher asked the kids in class what they thought it was like for her, what it would feel like to be the only one being bullied. One child after the other said to be able to see that the girl felt very bad. The girl with the roller skating shoes sobbed and said that she was very sorry that she didn't have any girlfriends and that she felt very alone. On a number of girls' faces, the teacher saw tears flowing. She saw compassion. The children became aware of their behavior. They knew damn well what they were doing couldn't really be done. The girl was seen, heard and recognized by this. She could finally get off her island. Now she is included in the group and is part of it again. During the prom, the teacher saw her dancing with the other girls in the classroom and the teacher was enjoying herself with the girl. The teacher had learned from this, so she told me, that she should follow her intuition. So it's possible. There are teachers who do this, but it's hard. It takes courage from a teacher to raise this issue; it requires perseverance to name what everyone knows, but no one wants to see. We want to enable teachers to do this. They deserve our support, not only from politics through this bill, but also from parents, educators, administrators and colleagues. It is precisely all those other parties that are involved, so that we can jointly take responsibility for a safe school environment and so that we can reduce bullying, even outside school. This law is a nice first step, for which again a compliment. I hope that it will also be a first step towards a cultural change, taking much more responsibility for this; a first step in making it possible to discuss loneliness and sadness, to tackle bullying and to increase what we call social security. This will enable better educational performance, with fewer absenteeism and early school leaving, fewer homeowners and greater appreciation for school by parents and pupils. I hope it is a first step towards a carefree childhood for children who are still on an uninhabited island, children who are also entitled to a safe class.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u105	I'm gonna check with the Secretary of State to see if he needs a suspension. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are discussing the social security bill at school. That is actually the final part of the plan of bullying that came out almost two years ago on 25 March 2013. We discussed this at length in the Chamber. Following a number of tragic incidents at the end of 2012, there was a wide-ranging debate on bullying and social security. There has also been a political debate in which we all shared the sense of urgency. Doing nothing was simply not an option. I also very much appreciate that we have built up with many different stakeholders at the time, including MPs, parents, students, teachers, school boards, sector councils, the COC, other civil society organisations and experts. This ultimately led to a plan of action that I was able to present together with the Kinderombudsman, a plan of action that has had a lot of nutrition from among others spokesmen from this Chamber and many people involved in education itself. That's important because good education starts at a safe school. The plan has always looked at what everyone wants to say: the teacher, the school, the parent, the student, but also we in The Hague can contribute to improving the social security of pupils at school from our responsibilities and roles. As I indicated, the bill is the final piece of that plan of action. Of course, we are zooming in on this during the debate tonight, but if Mrs Siderius asks if we are only going to solve the problem with this bill, then the honest answer is: no. But this bill isn't the only thing we've done and done. The implementation of the plan of action has begun with awareness. We have worked on this incredibly hard over the past two years, and we will continue to do so. Another important part was the equipment. What can you do to give teachers in the classroom, school leaders and also parents and students more handle? Eventually, you'll get to the formal framework. That is not insignificant, but it is only part of a major approach. I think we should be realistic about the fact that it will not stop if this bill is adopted by the House of Representatives today or next week, I do not know when the votes will be taken by the House of Representatives and later by the First Chamber and when it will eventually be dealt with. In the coming years, we must give real attention to the issue of social security and its implementation. I think this is necessary in view of the problem. We note that at the moment there are three children in every school class who are structurally bullied. That is not, therefore, occasional, but to the extent that it really affects them. I just think that's intense. Added together, it is about 400,000 children who are bullied day in, day out and at some point the fun, the fun of going to school and losing learning. I am even more concerned about children from vulnerable groups. Think of children with disabilities and ltb students about whom some of the spokesmen spoke. The chances of them being bullied and excluded are much greater. This requires careful consideration of what we can do together to prevent this as much as possible, because in the end I find this unacceptable, especially when you consider that children when they are big later can carry with them the negative effects of bullying for a very long time. Some of the spokesmen were present at the round tables. Adults indicated that they also experienced this and carried it with them for a long time. They sometimes talked very real and open about it, but said it took them a lot of time to get over it. I found that impressive conversations that have kept up with me. All in all, that forces us to take a good look at this problem. Good education requires a safe school and every child is entitled to a safe school time. Unfortunately, that is not always the case. I see too many places where bullying is not being dealt with effectively either. Too often I hear the poignant stories of parents and students who do not feel heard or find their way around the school when they are dealing with bullying behaviour. I refer to Dwayne's mother, who wrote on pestweb.nl, one of the places where parents can go: "My son has been bullied at school for months by a number of students who are in his class; I have had several conversations at school and also called school. Then it is often solved for one day. My son still wants to go to school, but he doesn't want to be in his own class anymore." How can you fix that? Of course, it's terrible when a child doesn't want to go to his own class anymore. I also notice that teachers and school administrators have questions. It is difficult to identify social insecurity. Schools think they have it well under control, but bullying also often takes place under the radar. Or as Mrs Bergkamp said, in that blind corner. You should have one of those mirrors you can see that with. If you don't have that, you think it's safe, that nothing's going on, but then suddenly there could be casualties. There are still too many parents and students who feel powerless. In some schools there is not enough or there are teachers, sometimes with the best intentions, who do not always do the good things. This can and must be different. That is why the government has come up with this bill. I realize that a safe school can not only be arranged from The Hague, but that does not relieve us of the responsibility to do what is in our power to ensure a social and safe school. Combating bullying is a responsibility of all of us. Many parties are involved in the plan of action. The sectoral councils have also made a very good action plan that will help schools to tackle social insecurity. I believe that we, as legislators, and I in my role, should outline the legal framework for this. My goal is to ensure that every school takes responsibility, so that it doesn't matter for a child what school he or she is in. All schools must ensure that social security is properly anchored and that bullying is effectively combated. That also means, in those cases where this does not happen, that the supervisor, the inspection, should be able to intervene at such a time. That's actually the basis of this bill. I'd like to answer the questions along a number of lines. I think there are three main themes to distinguish. First of all, why this bill, what is the point and the necessity of it? Secondly, what is the situation with regard to bullying, bullying programmes and the many discussions about it? The third major theme is monitoring. What exactly does it look like, what is asked of schools? Finally, questions have been asked about specific issues such as cyberbullying, the target group lhbt, how we monitor progress here in the Chamber and when we come to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u107	I would have thought the Secretary of State would start an analysis of how the number of bullied students in school could continue to grow. I also asked the VVD Group at the beginning of this evening. He didn't dare give up an analysis on that. Maybe the VVD executive can say something about that. How does the cabinet view that this is constantly growing? How is the school climate becoming increasingly unsafe in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u108	I think we should be real. Bullying is of all ages and of all ages. We know kids can be incredibly hard. I believe that Mr Bertema began his speech. Nor should we have the illusion that we can completely eliminate it. At the same time, we know that bullying often takes place within groups and especially at a specific age, often at the end of primary school and at the beginning of secondary education. bullying is particularly common in the 10-14 age group. It's too easy to talk then in terms of "actors" and "victims." We see that it is often a complex problem, a group process in which you have bullies and victims but where there are also many fellow runners, helpers and bystanders, and that these roles may vary. When I look at the figures, I have to say that bullying has not increased enormously in recent years. Those numbers are pretty stable when you look at the security monitor. I just think they're too high across the board. We need to see if we can do something extra to reduce the phenomenon of bullying in schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u109	What the Secretary of State is doing here is simply raising figures again and not answering the question at all. Yeah, kids are tough on each other; they were when I was in elementary school. I was also sometimes called names, for example because I have red hair. I didn't like that either, but I didn't get any trauma from it, Mr. Beertema. It is, of course, about how the school environment is becoming increasingly unsafe. We have now reached the point in 2015 that we are talking about bullying, about an unsafe school environment, and that we need to take measures here to stop bullying. Does that have anything to do with the scale increase in education? Does this have anything to do with the workload of teachers in education? Maybe that has something to do with less and less support in the classroom? Can the Secretary of State give us a thorough analysis and not come up again with a few figures and say that children are hard on each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u110	Mrs Siderius asked me to explain how bullying is growing so enormously. When we look at the figures, we see that it is fairly stable, albeit too high in my view. This also requires us to consider whether we can do something extra, but there is no huge increase. Mrs Siderius asked the question whether it could now be explained. If there is no increase, could it have anything to do with scaling up education or otherwise? I don't think that's the case. First of all, this cabinet invests in education. For example, Mrs Siderius mentioned janitors. In the autumn agreement, extra money has now been released, especially for concierges, to give more room for manoeuvre through the lumpsum schools to do something about it. But even if you compare schools, you can see that safety in schools is different, even though they are subject to the same conditions, with the same amount of money and the same class size, and the conditions are similar. There are schools that do very well, where the atmosphere is good, where children enjoy going and where bullying only happens sporadically. And there are schools that are doing much less well, where parents complain much more and where pupils also more often indicate that more should be done about it. In fact, you can see that the difference between schools that have the same conditions is huge. This bill can help enormously, as we can look at the outcome of the school and the safety in practice on the basis of this bill. This bill creates a title, also for the inspection, to address schools that are not doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u111	The Secretary of State started the story again that it is a complicated group dynamic process and that it is all difficult. That is true, but let us acknowledge it. Let us build in a simple sanction that might help. We didn't have that possibility in the old system and it's not in the new law either. Why are we walking around with such a big bow? Perhaps in schools where things are going well, there are educationally trained teachers who are able to identify, confront and isolate the perpetrators much faster. Maybe that's why things are getting better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u112	I do not have the impression that schools where safety is well organized apply the principle of three strikes and you're out. I do not know a school in the Netherlands that has had very good experiences with it. I do think that standards can help a lot more in a general sense. For example, the question is: how do we deal with each other in this school? This should be brought in a positive way by giving it a pedagogical dimension in the lessons. But of course it is also necessary to draw a line in the sand and say: it can still be done, but this is no longer acceptable; if you cross that line, you have a problem at school.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u113	Still, I don't understand. Why do I get a fine for every mile I drive too fast? That works. I won't be driving on that stretch for another mile. The Minister for Security and Justice was very much in agreement with that. The Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science probably agrees with that. Why should it be allowed anywhere, but not on very serious matters such as willfully destroying the lives of fellow students? That's when the unsubs are best signable. They're pretty easy to identify. It's not that hard. I've been able to track and I.D. the unsubs a lot. Then why can't teachers do that anymore? What's going on? Why isn't there just a sanction built in for this kind of misconduct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u114	Fortunately, there are a lot of schools that act well in the event of serious incidents, which intervene and which send or suspend pupils in those cases. That seems very appropriate to me. At the same time, bullying sometimes happens sneaky. Then it's not about very big things at all. Sometimes it's very small things, about notes, pushes and teasing, but these things happen every day and very structuralally, which ultimately destroys the student who has to deal with them. Then it is too easy to say that there is a criminal offence. We can also count those things: one, two, three, and the third time it's gone. But that does not do justice to the fact that bullying is often a lot more complicated than that. If someone comes to school with a knife, it's clap-and-clap: that's a criminal offense and then you can act. Then you go to the police and report it. But when it comes to bullying, it's like a little bit more complicated. Mr. Chairman. I come to speak about the need for this bill. You create a social school with each other and it's never finished. This requires a constant commitment and commitment from everyone, clear agreements and clear frameworks. I note that many schools are committed to a socially safe learning environment, because they know that safety is a prerequisite for good education. But some of the schools don't or don't do well enough. These schools, and above all their pupils and teachers, benefit from clear agreements. This legal framework is needed to ensure that all schools start working on social security. Then what changes with this bill? With this bill, we are putting an end to the ambiguity by clarifying the responsibilities of the school. All schools are responsible for working for a socially safe school. Three things jump out for me. First of all, we go from paper to practice. Now schools are only obliged to describe security policy in the school guide. That doesn't mean anything about how much policy actually lives in school. Schools can, so to speak, download a plague protocol and put it in the drawer. They have then formally fulfilled their legal obligation. I think this has to be different. We must get rid of this paper reality. With this proposal we are making a move towards practice. Soon, schools will not only have to have a social security policy, but they will also have to show that it is being put into practice. Where necessary, the inspection schools address this. Secondly, we are going to look at the result. The result counts. To know whether policy really works and where extra commitment is needed, the school needs insight into the results of the policy. In this case, that is the student's safety experience. Now schools too often think "at our school is not bullied," or "we have things reasonably in order." The question then is: on what basis does the school find that? I refer again to Mrs Bergkamp's words: a teacher often does not see everything. Bullying often happens under the radar. Pupils' perceptions sometimes differ from the level of the school's perception that it is in order. We must therefore look at the outcome. Soon schools will have to ask students more actively about their perception of safety at school. The school can then do something with it and intervene before something serious happens. I now come to my third point, namely intervention in advance and not afterwards. Now the inspection has too little insight into social security in schools, which means that people are not actually involved until incidents, often serious incidents, have occurred. Soon the inspection will have access to the safety data via the monitor in schools. In doing so, the inspection has a better and faster picture of where the risks occur. If too little attention is paid to this, the school can be contacted by the inspection. Finally, we are thus appointing a clear contact point for parents. Parents and bullied students have regularly indicated in the discussions we have had in the upcoming approach that they do not know enough where to go when their children are bullied. Soon, every school will have to make it clear who's going to be the point of contact. In short, with this bill, all schools really have to work with social security, and they have the space to do so in a way that suits them on the basis of their own beliefs. The schools need more insight into the actual situation. The inspection keeps a finger on the wrist at a distance. Mr Beertema asked how it was going in practice. The law requires key elements to actively implement social security, namely attention to the promotion of social security as an important task, the appointment of the contact point for parents and pupils and keeping track of the situation. Does it work in practice, too? It is about good information about the results of security policy. Mrs Siderius asked where the revolution suddenly came from. We are now looking much more at the ultimate goal and the ultimate effect of safety in practice. You could say: we are looking at what, when a lot has been discussed at first, including in this Chamber, about the methods, in the vein of: should we not prescribe schools how they do it anymore? I think this is also a process of moving insight. Of course, when the action plan was drawn up, we looked at what should be done. It has been found that there was a proliferation of methods and questions arose. Are schools always doing this in a good way now? Then we asked NJi to identify which approaches are effective. From the educational point of view, it was said at that time that education should be encouraged once more to take more responsibility for effectively shaping safety in practice and also give them more room to make their own choices. That happened with support from the Chamber, by the way. Several members already referred to the motion of members Bergkamp and Van der Burg. With other words: give the space on the how, but then seriously look at the what. Actually, that's the move we've made now. Instead of prescribing what schools should do, we give them freedom in it, but it is also part of this that we are going to see if what they are doing really leads to results. If we don't, we're not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u115	The Secretary of State is here trying to give his spin on the effective proven anti-bullying methods a nice touch. The sector is now on the move, it has a nice plan, we are going to work on it. The sector can bring about this change. However, I also get the impression from the answers to the questions put by the Chamber that this has been done under political pressure. After all, the Secretary of State says: the proven effective anti-bullying methods are an important tool. Next, the note following the report states that the inspection will appeal to schools where social security is insufficient if those schools do not follow an approach which has been proven to be effective. This suggests that the inspection would say to schools: you have to work with these methods, because they have been tested by the committee set up. This way, through a back door, these anti-bullying methods still sneak in. Not in the bill, but in education. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u116	Let me remove all this ambiguity, because I believe that every spokesperson asked for it afterwards. Are schools now completely free to choose whether they are going for a specific approach and, if so, which ones? My answer to that is yes. This is without prejudice to the fact that I still find it useful to have it mapped out, as is the case with other interventions, what we know, from science, what promising and effectively proven programmes are and what are not. This can help schools to make a well informed and informed choice. But we don't check schools on that. We are looking at the results in practice according to this bill, which has substantially changed this bill. We've been asked how that's changed. It has changed on the basis of a motion, so you can say that it happened under political pressure. We'll check on the state of safety at school. If that's okay and it's okay, there's nothing going on in a school and there's nothing to fear. If that safety isn't right, then the inspection will stop by and ask questions. What have you done about that? What does your security policy look like? What are you guys gonna do to improve this? I don't think that's a crazy conversation at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u117	No crazy conversation? The cabinet speaks with two mouths! Today, the Secretary of State says that all schools are free to choose what method they want to use to combat bullying in school. Why, then, is the note following the report that the inspection will appeal to the schools that do not have social security in order if they do not follow an approach that has been proven effective? That's where the problem is. There was also the problem before the motion was tabled. Schools must indeed be free to choose a method. A weak or very weak school cannot be prescribed by the State Secretary which method and method should not be used. Will the Secretary of State correct this piece of text or will the Secretary of State continue to speak with two voices?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u118	I think this debate is part of the history of law. It is always good to clarify any uncertainties in the debate. I say once again that schools have the freedom to choose a method that suits them. I would therefore like to say to schools: take advantage of what is known from science. It's all not compelling. Schools are free to do that. We look at the results in practice. I'll say something. If it is not good in practice, if the school is unsafe and if there is a lot going on at the school, it is not crazy if the inspection asks what has been done about it and how the school intends to improve the situation. If the school says it's going well and goes on the way it's always been, then that's not a strong story, because it turns out to be out of order at all. At a time like this, an inspection must say that a school that doesn't want to change anything runs the risk of real intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u119	I understand the confusion with Mrs Siderius. I'm almost convinced that schools are free to choose a method that suits the school. If there is an unsafe situation, will the education inspection not work with lists of methods that are proven to be effective and not proven to be effective? At that point, the methods, the NJI model or the lists are not included?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u120	What the inspection requires at such a time is what a school is going to do to improve the situation. They'll see if the school comes up with a credible story. If we want to improve safety by running three laps around the school every day, then the inspection obviously does not have much confidence in improving safety at school. As with mathematics or language teaching, schools are completely free to choose which books they use and what methods they use. If it is really below the mark, the inspection says: we see that you are lagging behind enormously, what are you going to do to improve that? Then a school is also asked to come up with a plan that can be convincingly reasoned that this will really lead to improvement. Then it doesn't seem crazy to me that a school should look at what can help with that. There's a lot available. It doesn't say: school, you have to do this or you have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u121	I believe I fully understand the Secretary of State now. I think the passage doesn't add up. In any case, the Secretary of State is now giving a slightly different explanation. That's important to the Acts. It is therefore impossible for the inspection to say that a school is not effectively engaged when a method is used that is on the list of unproven effective methods. So that's really out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u122	You have to imagine that this is how it goes. The inspection does not ask at all what method a school uses. People are asking about safety. The school has to keep track of all this, because that is what is demanded in this bill. If it's in order, the inspection says it's really good. However, if it is not in order, if a lot of children indicate that they do not feel safe at all, that they are not happy to go to school or that they are regularly bullied, then the inspection asks. Then she wants to know what a school is actually doing in this area. If a school does not have a good story, then the inspection will not immediately intervene in enforcement until the end of the year, but it will ask what is being done to improve safety. The school has to come up with a convincing story. Running three laps around the school every morning won't improve safety. Then a school must come up with an approach that it can also say: we think this is really going to work. That is not so much different in that sense than in the case that a school has lagging learning outcomes. Schools are completely free to choose which learning methods they use. However, if, for example, calculation results are really dramatic, the inspection asks: wouldn't it be time for you to get to work on something that does produce good results? That will therefore be the case in the area of safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u123	Indeed, the text gives some reason to believe that the so-called "effectively proven programmes" could become binding in situations where there are concerns about safety. I welcome the clarification given by the Secretary of State, namely that this is not the case and that, at those moments too, the schools, if good results are to be achieved, will be able to make their choices. That is an important fact and an important clarification. Thank you for that. I have also asked another question on this point, which is directly related to it. Does this mean that the school can continue to follow existing agreements and practices that work satisfactorily, as is shown by the reports, even without methods of its own choice? Did I interpret that correctly? I ask this to avoid a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u124	Mr Bishop is quite right. Let's say that a school is just safe and that's what the inspection looks at in the end and maybe doesn't use a method at all or a method the NJi claims to have little fiduciary in. If it's safe at that school and parents and students are satisfied, there's nothing going on. It's possible. The other way around, I'm gonna say right away. The use of a method that the NJi claims to think is good is not immediately the recipe for a safe school. It stands and falls of course also in the way a school does it. This means that the school cannot say: we use this method, the NJi likes it and we are done with it. If it's not safe at school, the school has some explaining to do. The great thing about this bill, which I am also saying to Mr Rog... is that we are actually sending here completely on the back, on the result, on the what. We give the schools great freedom to indicate how they do it. The only thing that makes us deviate somewhat from that is that we ask every school to have a central point of contact. This is mainly due to the fact that many parents and students have always said to us in the last two years that they need the clarity of a point of contact where they can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u125	I fully share the view expressed by the Secretary of State here. I'm very happy about that. It's a good thing schools get to choose for themselves. However, I also notice that many schools find that very complicated. They say that there is a proliferation of anti-bullying programs and that some are incredibly expensive, but have very little effect. Every school is inventing the wheel. Is there still a website such as the one at the NJi that describes a number of methods, so that schools know that a method for which they may wish to choose in certain places has proven themselves to be effective or even scientifically proven?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u126	The answer to that is yes. In fact, we're also planning to build that out. The programme of action of the PO Council and the VO Council also states that it is good to look at promising methods. We are currently investing in empirical research in practice, to see if we can really prove it effectively. There are now methods that are said to have already shown spectacular results abroad, but on which scientific research in the Netherlands is still insufficient to say that they are also paying off in the Dutch context. There is research in progress and I am very curious about the results. When that's done, I think schools can take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u127	That's great, thank you very much. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to urge teacher training to take account of these very methods?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u128	Yes. I believe that the Minister has said very recently that she will also take up this issue with teacher training. She did the same in connection with School and Security, and the Safety Monitor. She will ask for attention to be paid to this type of thing and to ensure that it also gets a place in the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u129	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u130	It is good to hear from the Secretary of State that there are no prescribed programmes, not even on the detour. I welcome that answer and thank the Secretary of State for it. However, the question remains as to what the legislation we are discussing today actually adds to the action plan of the PO Council and the VO Council, which has been discussed with the Secretary of State, and on the other hand the instruments that the inspection now has. That is what the Council of State is saying: not only on the basis of the content of the school guide, but also on the basis of its actual implementation, it is possible to intervene in schools. So what does this law add? Can the Secretary of State explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u131	I think I can give a reply on both parts. Firstly, Mr Rog asks: is this action plan of the PO Council and the VO Council not really enough? In their own action plan, the PO Council and the VO Council state that they consider that legislation can be an important tool for anchoring policy objectives and ensuring their implementation. So that's what this is about. It's up to schools to shape it how. Legislation goes hand in hand with activities in and with schools to achieve an effective approach. The PO-Council and the VO-Council therefore state in their own action programme themselves that it is good to seal this off with a legislative proposal which ultimately sets it down. Mr Rog is also talking about the Council of State. He also mentioned this on a number of occasions in his speech. I have given a very detailed answer to that. I said I disagreed with the Council of State on this issue. I have said that it is not the case that the inspection currently has sufficient tools to intervene. In fact, the inspection can only intervene if the safety policy is not included in the school guide. Schools are not obliged at all to identify the real safety at school. The inspection therefore has nothing to look at in these cases either. Furthermore, the inspection has no legal title to intervene. That is why the legislative proposal is necessary. Mr Rog mentioned it, for example, from the Ibn Ghaldoun school. He told me, didn't you intervene at that school because security wasn't in order? No, that's not the case. A lot of things weren't in order at the Ibn Ghaldoun school. Social security was not in order either, but that was not the point on which we could stop funding. We were able to stop funding on the basis of a very far-reaching article in the Awb, because the inspection on the basis of a thorough report had come to the conclusion that I quote "in the coming years Ibn Ghaldoun will not be able to deliver the benefits for which the educational benefit is provided'. In other words, the funding has ceased on the basis of that general article in the AWB which deals with State aid to be used for the purpose for which it is intended. That funding did not stop because social security was not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u132	Yeah, clear. I shall come back to that first point. The Secretary of State says that the lack of policy in the school guide is the only title. Can he explain why the Council of State is also linking the actual implementation to that? The Council of State states that this is indeed a title to intervene. This is relevant to the assessment of this aspect. After all, I need to know what the law adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u133	What does this law do in technical terms? In fact, the law makes social security and the duty of care a requirement and a condition of funding. This means that the school must give form and content to this in order to be able to give good education. If a school doesn't, there is reason to intervene and intervene in the end. At the moment, there is no such land. This means that although the inspection can look into this, it will do so at some point, and that it can give advice on this, but that the inspection is toothless if nothing happens in the end. With this we give her the opportunity to intervene. In that sense, I think it really adds something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u134	I am pleased that the Secretary of State says that schools are free to choose a method that they favour or even opt for an integrated approach. The inspection may then conclude that there is no need to check for approaches. But I am still a little bit stuck with the explanatory statement and also with the answers of the Secretary of State in the report. It repeats time and time again, both in terms of monitoring and in terms of defining the methods, that the programme's effectiveness must be proven. That is where the inspection will be monitored, and that is also the task of the schools. How does the Secretary of State view the terms he used in the explanatory memorandum regarding proven effectiveness? That's different from showing results, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u135	Mr Voordewind should read it as follows. We look at the effectiveness of a school's approach. A school is obliged to pay structural attention to social security and the reduction of bullying. We are looking at whether it is effective in practice. So we're not looking at the method used, x, y or z. No, we're looking at whether it's safe at school. This is meant by "we look at the proven effectiveness in practice."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u136	That sounds nice. "Proven effectiveness" is also a scientific term, as the Secretary of State knows. It means that empirical, scientific research has to be done on whether a method is successful. The NJi tried to make an analysis. The NJi itself comes to zero programs. After all, none of the programmes are adequate. Then again the question is whether the term "proven effective" has been used so happily in the explanatory memorandum. Shouldn't it just say: demonstrably effective?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u137	"Proven" or "proven" effective, that's almost a semantic discussion. I think we should see two things apart. It is good to continue investing in good scientific research into methods. That's what we're funding from the old education proof scheme. Also from the action plan against bullying some extra money has come to test some promising methods in Dutch practice. I think that makes sense. Perhaps our knowledge of these methods can progress, which schools can benefit from. Suppose you can choose between one expensive method and the other and one has proven itself in practice, while many experts doubt the other. Then I'll tell schools I'm not forcing you to do anything, but use your common sense. That's one. That is our search for proven effective methods. Now we choose a combination in which on the one hand we release schools in their choice of a method. Maybe they do not choose a method at all and on the other hand we examine how it works out in practice. If a school can show that what it does is working, so that students feel safe bullying may happen, but compared to other schools we will all be satisfied, at least the inspection that supervises. I hope that this distinction has been clarified somewhat. We are looking at the usefulness and necessity of this bill. Mr Bertema was a bit critical. He was talking about "left and right" and "you can never prevent it from happening one hundred percent." Safety is not so much a topic of the left or right, but a theme that underpins good education. I believe that this proposal will contribute to this. I have seen several examples, including excellent schools where a team consciously chooses to introduce a broad programme and a broad approach to improving the safety environment at school. The jury who looks at this school is an independent judgment saying that this leads to demonstrable results. It's possible in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u138	I have another question about the previous point: the programmes. It is an answer to a question from Mr Rog................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what I'm curious about. It would be nice if the Secretary of State could tell us a little bit more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u139	Maybe I can come back to that. I have more specific questions about the different approaches, how the NJi has been handled and why certain methods have been or have not been approved. Then I'll come back in the next theme block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u140	I suggest that the Secretary of State finishes first and then we interrupt again, if there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u141	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop asked a question about the usefulness and necessity of this bill. That question relates to the scope. He asked what exactly a school can be held responsible for, even when it comes to what happens outside the school. The mission of a school is to take care of the social security of the pupils. If a monitor shows that pupils are being bullied, it is the school's job to pay attention to this if it is within the school's reach. If it takes place in the school, it's obvious. When students contribute to the dissemination of material and when it takes place between students, this relates mainly to what you see about social media, it does not always happen immediately in the school, but a bit around it and in the same student circle, which is also in the classroom. In that sense, the scope is slightly wider than just what happens in the classroom. What happens on the school square, in the bicycle booth or between students on social media is definitely something that the school could care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u142	I thank the Secretary of State for the explanation. This is a very difficult point. How far outside the fence, to put it in a metaphor, does the responsibility of the schools extend to their pupils? This could be a terrible pitfall for schools, because where does responsibility end? Of course, a school as a whole will, for educational reasons, include those who behave badly at the appropriate time. That's the pedagogical responsibility you take. But how far does the obligation extend? That is not quite enough for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u143	The obligation is that a school should have the task of combating the problem if it occurs within the school's reach. The point is that students do something outside the school but also take it into the classroom. It happens all the time. Bullying doesn't happen in class when the master's nose is on top of it. This often happens when the master doesn't look for a moment, when one is outside the school or on his way home. The next day the students will take the problem into the classroom, because then they'll be sitting next to each other in the school sofas. You have to look at what is reasonably within the reach of schools and what types of bullying eventually radiate to the well-being of students in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u144	Who then ultimately decides whether it is within the reasonable reach of the schools? Is that the inspection, are those the parents or is that the school? That's of some importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u145	It's always complicated with this kind of thing to go all the way into the casuism. It is also difficult to cut it exactly with a pair of scissors. If things happen at the football club, between young people who aren't in class, you can't tell the school that she should have prevented it. But if on the way to school things happen between students who are in the classroom together, if that has a very big impact on the school, with a group of students who are also sitting next to each other in the school walls every day, then I think that the school has a role to play in that. In the end, I think this kind of thing is gonna come up. If you monitor carefully and see if children feel safe at school, if they're bullied in and around the school, what's going on between those students, I think that's a pretty real picture coming out of it. If it is right, there is nothing to worry about, but if it turns out to be wrong, I think that the inspection will eventually look critically at that and also give a first assessment of whether it is within the school's reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u146	May I summarize it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u147	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u148	The limit is: it must be school-related.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u149	Yeah, within range of the school. I think you'll give a good translation of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u150	Another question came to my mind after the monitor. It's very important to get things visible. I spoke in my speech about the blind spot. A lot of things you don't see. The monitor and the experience are figures on a collective level. They are aggregated and anonymized. How does that individual student being bullied find themselves in that monitor, those windows? Who's responsible for seeing that? Adding it all together gives a certain picture. This may give the impression that a school is safe, but it is often about individual students being bullied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u151	I don't think monitoring is a panacea either, and you can see exactly where the problem is, if you monitor it properly. This monitoring is an indication of whether the school is on the right track. I think, apart from that, you need to talk to students and keep the threshold low so that that individual student who doesn't go to school with pleasure also knows that he can go to his teacher or someone else in the school, if he has a problem. Those two exist side by side in that sense. Monitoring can give a general picture of the state of safety at school. What are aspects that we need to pay more attention to? That doesn't relieve a school of doing other things to get in touch with individual students.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u152	I totally agree with that. I think it is important not to give the impression that the individual student being bullied becomes visible in the monitor or windows. I think that the bullying coordinator I have just spoken about, which the Secretary of State will come back to, I think, is important to get a look at. The monitor or window gives the general view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u153	Mrs Bergkamp is absolutely right about that. This is the general picture that enables a school to look at which safety aspects are good and which need to be looked at a little more. How is our school doing in relation to a school on the other side of the neighborhood with similar students? Are we doing better or less good? That is very relevant to the awareness of schools. Then they can work on something. When it comes to the question of how to help an individual student, it is really more necessary than having a questionnaire filled out once in the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u154	Let's take it a little further. Suppose a student really has a serious problem at school and the school doesn't have such a good policy, so it doesn't listen well to the students and the parents. Is it true that this student can also bring a complaint to the inspection if he is not heard? As a result, the individual pupil can alert the inspection. That's what the bill says, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u155	That's right. Disgruntled parents and students can go to the inspection with any complaint or care. The inspection shall carry out risk-based monitoring. If it turns out that there are several things going on at such a school, it may be a reason for the inspection to go on to see if something is going on in the meantime, in that regular four-year surveillance period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u156	I have the idea that a number of issues have already been addressed in terms of approach and monitoring. Given the time I'm asking the Secretary of State if it's necessarily necessary to come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u157	Mr President, I was already eagerly in my papers to see what I can skip.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u158	Perhaps Mr Beertema is making such a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you, Mr President, but my point is in line with Mrs van der Burg's point just now. Can the Secretary of State indicate the exact difference between an effort obligation, a far-reaching effort obligation and a result obligation? I am not aware of the term 'extensive effort'. I'm not a lawyer, but I can imagine that there might be problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u160	I don't think so. In a more general sense, there is a difference between a result obligation and an effort obligation. The bill we sent to the Council of State states that a school has a responsibility to ensure the safety of all its children. I think the Council of State was right to criticise this point, because you can never say such a thing. That is just like when the Dutch state claims to guarantee the safety of all Dutch people, while we all know that crime is never entirely preventable. We have made it a "greater effort" in order to reduce the problems as much as possible. This also applies to the classroom. We need to make sure that the school actively does something to prevent bullying and promote social security. That is not a loose thing, we call it a 'greater effort'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u161	Has this far-reaching commitment also been reviewed by the Council of State? And what was his reaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u162	No, we don't keep pushing legislative proposals back and forth. We have asked the Council of State for an opinion on this. He made a suggestion, we took it over. We have provided a reply to a number of other suggestions, because we did not fully agree with the Council of State on this. You can find all that in the reply. I'll go through the other two themes a little faster. Mrs Bergkamp asked how it went with the NJi approach. She asked me to reflect again on the validation process, because there has been a lot of discussion, which I do understand. We have asked the NJi, and specifically a separate committee, to assess the programmes. That was for two reasons. First of all, for schools, because it gives them insight into which programmes have been effectively proven. There were none at the time, but at least some were promising and well theoreticalally substantiated, while others were not. This can help schools with their current choices. However, it is also done to advise the builders or developers of these programs. Apart from the assessment framework, comprehensive reports have been sent to individual programme makers. They're not public, because that was the deal. The programme owners were then able to develop their programmes with their comments. I have the impression that some of them have done the same. Mr Beertema asked me if it was wise for the Children's Ombudsman to recommend KiVa so strongly. I'm not here to answer to the Children's Ombudsman. About KiVa I think it is wise to wait and see what will come out of the scientific impact study. The NJi will review KiVa in spring 2017. A number of members asked if KiVa has received money to do research. The answer to that is yes. That was in the Education Evidence programme, in which anyone who wanted to do empirical research into effective proven methods in education, not only anti-bullying methods but also calculation methods and otherwise, could apply for money for scientific research. KiVa did this in collaboration with the University of Groningen. This was assessed on the basis of peer review by a committee chaired by Robbert Dijkgraaf. So that's how it all went down the royal road. I still think that is very good, because scientific research can greatly increase our understanding of what works in education. What about the programmes which, according to the NJi, are not proven to be effective or which the NJi does not consider promising? What exactly does that mean? The committee has assessed the programmes submitted on the basis of their effectiveness in reducing bullying, on the basis of the following three criteria. Is it theoretically well-founded? Is it empirically adequately substantiated? Are the conditions clearly defined, so that a school can work well with them? The rejected programs are actually very diverse. A programme has been rejected which has been effective for other purposes. Mr Voordewind referred to Rock and Water. That's a resistance training. In this respect, it can be very effective, but the scientists and the experts do not find the programme convincing when it comes to reducing bullying and its preventive effect. Of course, I'd like to leave the judgment to the people who really studied for it. Mr Bishop asked how many programmes had been approved. How many programs has the effectiveness been proven? Thirteen programmes have been marked "promisingly." They have been given the opportunity to do further research into the empirical part of it. Mrs Siderius asked whether a method would be a guarantee of success if it were applied in practice. She referred to Micha de Winter. He says you don't solve everything by using a method. He's right about that. It's also about the way you do it. I think he's saying some sensible things. He says, for example, that you have to be aware that a school is a living community. You must also ensure that the agreements made between parents, pupils and the school are respected. Mrs Siderius asked whether it is important for parents to be aware of the way in which schools implement social security. That's important. The obligation to inform parents about this through the school guide is set out in the Primary Education Act. We're not gonna change that with this bill. We'll broaden the basis for the inspection. She not only looks at whether the school has written it down properly in its school guide, but also looks at safety in practice when this bill is adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u163	I don't think the Secretary of State fully understood my question. Schools must, of course, be accountable, including to parents. They need to be transparent about what is happening at school in the area of social security. In the answers to our questions, the Secretary of State says that he thinks it is logical that the results are mentioned in the school guide. Now I've lost my question. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u164	Then we'll go for the rebound later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u165	Then I'm gonna throw it in my rebound, too. This question has been put by several Members and I have indeed misunderstood him. It is about whether schools should be more transparent about the effects and safety at school towards parents and pupils.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mrs Siderius has found the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u167	The underlying question was about the image. Schools obviously have an interest in being known as a socially safe school. They may therefore consider not reporting certain incidents, or not writing about them transparently in the school guide. How do you deal with that? Each school, of course, wants enough students to be able to provide decent education. A school doesn't want to be classified as unsafe. What are the Secretary of State's thoughts on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u168	I am very much in favour of transparency, not just in terms of security. What exactly do schools do? What about learning outcomes? Are parents and students satisfied? That's what I promote in all kinds of ways. Specifically in terms of transparency, the PO Council and the VO Council indicated in their action plan that they would like to explore how to use Accountability Windows to show parents and students the state of safety at school. That is a voluntary instrument, so we need to look critically at whether schools are actually doing this. I also see the risk that Mrs Siderius points out: if a school is not doing so well, it is, of course, easy not to disclose that data. However, I believe that pupils and parents are entitled to this. This is what I'm taking with me. In any case, before the summer, I will make a number of proposals to promote transparency in education and to counter this undesirable effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u169	We have to avoid falling into this case, but I would like to refer to the answer to my question. According to the Secretary of State, Rock and Water is more focused on resilience development. However, the NJi (Dutch Youth Institute) makes a different argument; it says that the method is empirically not sufficiently substantiated. On the other hand, the NJi says that it is not primarily aimed at combating bullying, although this is suggested. It's about getting a better picture of this, because it's hard to understand what a good anti-bullying method is. The Kjer training is a resistance training. However, in the analysis of Kanjar training, NJi says that it is not sufficiently empirically substantiated. You would say that the training will fall into the same category as that of Rock and Water, but the Kanjar training will be part of the newly approved projects. I would just like to show that it may be difficult for schools to make something of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u170	The risk is that we're gonna walk through the whole list of projects, but I'm gonna go into this anyway. I have just mentioned the three test criteria. The committee has looked at the question of how far a training is going to stop bullying. Empirically, theoretically, the preconditions must be in order. There was no programme that was empirically proven effective. I think it has been said for that reason: this method is promising........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ A number of other methods were said to be interesting in themselves, but not to reduce bullying immediately. In that sense, therefore, there is some variation in the committee's assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u171	We're running a little out of time. I propose that we limit the number of questions and that we ask short questions rather than speeches. I think Mr Voordewind can start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u172	I'm gonna do my best, Mr. Chairman. I am trying to get the set-up of the provisionally approved programmes. The Kanjer training also states that it has not yet been empirically proven, but this training is included in the provisionally approved programmes. I think that both we and the schools should get a better picture of the categories. I'll give it to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u173	I take this suggestion with me, partly because the PO Council and the VO Council have indicated that we need to consider what we can do to better inform schools about the available methods and their effectiveness. If schools want more information on this, I think that is a valid point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u174	For D66 it is important that the results are visible to young people and their parents. The Accountability Windows are a voluntary tool. If young people and parents don't know how safe it is, you're gonna miss out on this bill, I guess. Is it not a good suggestion, if the Secretary of State does not think so, that we should table a motion to make it compulsory, for example in the annual report? Each school has an annual report. That's a cycle of a year. That could be part of it. I hear Mrs Ypma saying that the annual report is not mandatory either. However, there is a policy cycle. You have to make it transparent somewhere for parents and children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u175	I share the desire to allow schools to give as much openness as possible on this issue. We have an ongoing agreement with schools in primary and secondary education that they themselves are doing so on a voluntary basis through Windows. The vast majority of schools are simply involved. Of course, hanging on to this is a very heavy instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u176	May I ask the Secretary of State to evaluate how this responsibility goes in practice for parents and children? Can he inform the Chamber about this so that it can examine whether that is sufficient on that basis? After all, it is really important that parents and children know how safe it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u177	Maybe I can come back to that in a more general sense? I believe that the question of transparency does not only have a role to play in relation to safety, but also in relation to a number of other aspects at school. I see that some schools are very open and progressive in that, but there are also schools that say: we are not participating at all. Actually, I don't think that's possible anymore today. Therefore, before the summer, I would like to come up with something more broadly about transparency in education. I would like to reach further agreement with schools in primary and secondary education on how we can move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u178	I get the impression that this is the end of the block on transparency, but I asked if this could be on the school website. I actually asked if an app could be developed together with the PO Council, the VO Council and the schools. If they take this approach seriously, this seems to be a fairly normal question, because it allows parents to make a well-founded choice for their child's school. I'd like to get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u179	I hadn't even started, but by now so many questions have been asked that the block has been pretty hollowed out. Of course, I think this should go along with the modern demands of time and that that information should not only be available via a website, but also via a modern app so you can view it on your phone or iPad. This is already possible with Windows. I just have the impression that a lot of parents don't know that possibility yet and that it's not the most user-friendly app. I would like to take these thoughts into account in the letter on transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u180	The Secretary of State is currently spending much more time on interruptions than on his response. So I suggest we listen to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u181	I'm just gonna try staccato. Mr Bishop asked: is one person per board sufficient for all branches as contact points? The answer to that is no. One person per major school board is not enough in my view. This is really meant to be regulated at school level, because the school is the primary point of contact for parents. Mr Voordewind had a question about cooperation between authorities. He referred to the example of the school in Amsterdam and asked: should we not standardise that anymore? I am very hesitant about that, precisely because I believe that good cooperation should be given a place locally. I see that police, justice, civil society organisations, welfare organisations and schools already find each other, especially in the big cities. This happens, for example, in the House of Safety, not only on themes such as "bullying" and "harassment at school," but also on themes such as "loverboys" and "anti-radicalisation." If we go from The Hague and say that everyone has to do it this way, then we are really a little confused. I am in favour of promoting good cooperation at local level, but we may not have to prescribe it. Mrs Siderius asked: what is going to happen in concrete terms to reduce the possession of weapons? At the moment, there is a hand-to-hand on weapons possession, which states exactly what schools can do about it. There's some sort of step-by-step plan in there. This has partly to do with prevention, but also with periodic checks and the way in which you can work well with the police. That plan is currently being adapted and deactivated through the channel we have before it, namely the School & Security Foundation. A little more context was also sent to the Chamber last Monday in the written reply to the questions put by Mr Tellegen and Mr Straus. I can still refer to that. Mrs Van der Burg asked whether a bridge could be established to deal with child abuse. Bullying and child abuse are different things in that sense that one usually happens in the home situation and the other at school. At the same time, of course, it has everything to do with the well-being of children. I can imagine, for example, that someone responsible for social security and bullying policy is also responsible for setting out the lines for a school to identify and report child abuse. The bill doesn't stand in the way of schools either. In any case, we will be working together with the educational councils. In addition, I will take this suggestion with me. Mrs Ypma has asked questions about training and continuing training. I think it is quite right: it is not just about methods, but it is really about good teachers. So that starts with teacher training. In the context of social security, it is really important to deal with bullying on pabos and training for first- and second-degree teachers. I believe that yesterday, in response to written questions, the Minister reported that the training programmes support the School and Security Foundation to implement an improvement process on this part. This leads to two things: a directive on the operationalisation of the social security theme and a digital knowledge base which provides insight into the different methods, good examples and scientific insights available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u182	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer. It is good that the Minister is working on this. I would like to be informed of this by the Minister. Can it therefore include continuing training? I was concerned not only with teacher training but also with the continuing training of teachers who are already in the classroom. Can the Secretary of State promise me that that point will be taken into account in the next letter? That does not necessarily have to be done by letter. As long as I'm informed about it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u183	Yes. A few brief comments on monitoring, which is important first and foremost for the school. A school has to know its own way of doing things. Furthermore, monitoring is important for monitoring, because if you want to know if it is safe at a school and what the effect is, you have to make it visible to the left or right in one way or another. Mr Voordewind and Mrs Bergkamp asked exactly what this monitoring should do. A number of criteria are set out in the explanatory memorandum to the law. The first two are representativeness and topicality. Mrs Bergkamp mentioned once a year. I think that's a good time if you really want to keep it up to date. The third criterion is standardized, which means that you have to monitor bullying using a questionnaire that allows a school to compare it over the years, but also with other schools. For this, several question methods are available that schools can use. The fourth criterion is that the method is reliable. This also applies to the school's freedom of choice, as long as it meets these criteria. As regards the amendments, I will say a few words about them later. Mr Bishop made a distinction between factual safety and subjective. Both parts could also come back in such a survey. Of course, you can ask whether a student has actually experienced something in person. This is without prejudice to the fact that the subjective safety experience is not entirely unimportant. Even if perhaps the number of incidents is relatively limited but children are not comfortable in their skin or do not feel safe, that should be something that attracts a school. Mrs. Siderius asked when you'd be happy to measure this. If it gets any less, of course. We do not adopt this bill to establish in five or ten years' time that we are still at the same level. I believe that this can contribute to improving safety at school, especially in those schools where it is still insufficient. We will never be able to reduce bullying completely to zero. But if all schools are going to do as well as the best schools at the moment, I'm a happy man.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u184	You know that the SP likes to pay off, so what can we pay off this Secretary of State, for example, in a year or two years? The bullying must fall, we agree on that, but perhaps the Secretary of State can give a band of the percentages involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u185	This is very tempting, because I myself have very specific ambitions, but it would be too easy to say now: we are going there. I would like to look at this, but that is a shared ambition with schools of primary and secondary education. If they take a few steps, we can work towards something. That must be a real ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u186	At some point, we must also be able to determine whether it is sufficient for us. Are we satisfied with this, yes or no? Or are we going to say that more interventions or other instruments should be used to bring bullying down? Of course, I'm curious about that. "It has to go down" is really a little too wide. So it would really be nice if the Secretary of State could be a little more specific.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u187	I can't possibly do that right now, no matter how much I might want to. What matters most now is that there are already a lot of schools that are doing well. I want them to still do well in five years. I also see a number of schools where things are not going well. My ambition is that, together with those schools, we will ensure that they are in good shape in five years' time. I find it very difficult to say at this time how this translates into national figures. This also has to do with the fact that at the moment not all schools are monitoring the state of safety at their school. So we don't have reliable data yet on the state of safety at every school. Let's see if we can take a first step to make it clear. Suppose this is a reason to say: it works to link concrete objectives and ambitions to that. Then I'd be happy to consider that, but in that order. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop asked why the risk analysis in the WOT was not supplemented. This bill is not primarily about monitoring or the WOT, but it is about what schools need to do to promote social security as a condition of funding. In fact, this is what the sector law is doing, so that the inspection can intervene even if it is insufficient. That's what happens in that order. Mr Bishop asked whether monitoring should be carried out according to a uniform model or whether the school should, so to speak, also be allowed to make a print screen. We want standardised instruments to be used. There are several of them. Schools can choose from this, but it must be of good quality. In other words, the inspection must be able to identify the state of safety in schools. It must be up-to-date and reliable et cetera. This concerns the criteria I have just mentioned. Mr Bishop also asked about the burden on, for example, very small schools. I think those burdens aren't so bad. It doesn't have to be that complicated and difficult. Even in small schools, you can ask students how they feel at school, whether they are happy to go to school and whether they are involved in bullying. That is why we have made no distinction between large and small schools in this legislative proposal. Is a school that has few problems, a good school? If a school has mapped it out in a good and reliable way, that is actually the situation we are aiming at with this bill, and students indicate that they like to go to school, that they feel safe there and that they are not being bullied much, I am very satisfied. Then I would say that this school has done well for each other, no matter how it has been achieved. I'm worried when a lot of kids report that they don't feel safe or that they get bullied regularly, especially when it happens at that school, compared to other schools, much more often. Then the inspection also has a title to have a conversation there. Mrs Bergkamp asked if the inspection also supervises the coordinator. We are looking at whether someone is appointed to represent these tasks, but of course we are not looking over the shoulder of the coordinator. There are three more specific issues, which I will soon walk by. The first of these three topics is cyberbullying. Mrs Ypma, Mrs Van der Burg and Mrs Bergkamp have asked a number of questions about this. The question is whether more attention should be paid to this. I think this is the case. You can also see it's becoming a bigger and bigger problem. If something used to happen in class, you could protect yourself from that at home. But it's coming into your bedroom now, so to speak, because you're always online. That has a huge impact on children. I would like to deepen this further together with the PO Council and the VO Council. Their action plan also states that this is a specific aspect that they want to take with them. The website ketpunt.nl was mentioned here. I find that interesting things and good examples, which we can spread to other schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u188	I have a brief question: are we going to hear anything about this? Is there a report in the planning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u189	That's my final point. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether the Chamber could be reported on a six-monthly basis. I find that very frequent, I must say. I propose to report to the Chamber on this with the safety monitor that comes out periodically. Then we will have the state of play throughout the Netherlands and we will be able to indicate the progress of the action plan. We are certainly taking this as a point of attention. A few very specific questions have been asked about the lhbt target group. More generally, Mrs Bergkamp asked about schools. It is now in the core goals to pay attention to this. What if a school doesn't? Well, then the inspection can indeed take place, because the school must give substance to the core objectives. More specifically, the Minister has asked the Education Inspectorate to conduct a thematic study on this subject. So it is not a question of monitoring a specific school, but a sort of overview of how this issue is going at school level, at system level. What about the core goals of sexuality and sexual diversity? This is included in the annual work programme of the 2015 inspection. A representative sample will be drawn for this purpose. I expect the findings of the investigation to be sent to the Chamber in the first half of 2016. In the meantime, we're not sitting still. More on the supportive side, we are working from SLO, the body that develops the curricula and supports schools in them, to indicate what schools can do and how they can give good form and content to this, in other words how they can make the theme well discussed at school. Those forms of work, methods and instruments are available. I now come to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u190	I had asked two more questions about this block. One question is very specific. In the end, teachers have to deal with the core objective. They must implement the core objective of sexual education and sexuality. In training, however, it is not a fixed component. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he wants to promote, in conversation with the teacher training courses, that this becomes part of it. Otherwise, you have the situation that the school is obliged to do something, while the teacher training does not pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u191	The curriculum for teacher training is made by the university. It is not, therefore, something that is taken into account in the main objectives of the programme as opposed to primary or secondary education. I can only imagine that professionalisation in the field of safety and the discussion of these issues will be discussed in the discussions we are having with the colleges and universities of applied sciences. I'll ask the Minister to take this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u192	Fine. If the Secretary of State wants to put that back in the letter, I'm totally happy about that. My second question was about the broad group of vulnerable young people. My colleague Ypma has also asked some questions about this. I am talking about young people with intellectual disabilities, Ibt-young people or young people with religious cultural backgrounds. The law contains three things: the policy, the monitor and the coordinator. How do you make people sensitive to these particularly vulnerable young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u193	It is a part of the PO Council's and the VO Council's action plan that states: it is a specific focus; we want to include it with methodology makers. I can imagine, for example, that if you're trying to stop bullying or make it negotiable in class, you're not just doing it generically, but you're also asking attention for that one student who's just as different, no matter why that student is different. I imagine you're asking for specific attention for children with disabilities, for children who have different cultural backgrounds or for lhbt children. I do not want to prescribe this very specifically immediately, but I can imagine that methodology makers say: we are going to incorporate it and at least we are going to have discussions about it. The same applies to monitoring. We do not prescribe that very specifically, but I would like to know as a school. The questionnaires made by ITS, for example, or by other bodies, are good tools for identifying the state of safety at a school. I can well imagine that it specifically asks for this kind of thing. Again, we don't make methods, so I can't say we write it in, but I want to encourage it by talking to the people who do make methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u194	I heard the Secretary of State say he's not about the Kids' Ombudsman's words. Did I also hear him say that he is going to put the Disputes Commission with another body?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u195	The Disputes Committee doesn't tell me one, two, three what. The action plan states that when parents run into something and feel that they cannot be heard at the school, there are a number of bodies where they can go. One of them is the Children's Ombudsman. That's like some kind of counter that's pretty wide. Parents can go there with a lot of things. I would not want to close that route immediately, because that is precisely the essence of the Children's Ombudsman. However, there are also other routes available for parents and they are not obliged to just contact the Children's Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u196	It's not useful if an agency that has to solve complaints has played a huge role on such an important theme, which has a huge impact on people's lives. If you have to report your complaint to such a body, it's just unwise. That makes sure people can't move on if they don't get out with the school. Then they'll have their hands in their hair and they'll just have to worry about it. It would really be desirable for the Secretary of State to say: it is not useful to point out, among other things, the Children's Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u197	Parents can also go to the inspection. Parents can also go to the school board if they have a problem at an individual school. There are several places they can go. We have the Kinderombudsman in the Netherlands. I think we have one for a reason. I actually think it's a good thing that it's someone who's tough on students' rights. Some firm statements may have been made. I happened to speak to the Children's Ombudsman myself this afternoon, also on this subject. In any case, I am pleased to hear from him that he has made agreements with the PO Council, with the VO Council and with the NJi to get the heads together quickly when the bill is passed. We should not clash in the trenches, but have a common interest in promoting the safety of students; I believe that we can also strengthen each other. I thought that was a very positive message and a positive approach. I think this gives confidence for the future, too. I came to the end of my answer to the questions. There are a number of amendments that I would like to comment on briefly. The first amendment is that in part No. 9, on the specialization of the concept of social security. Mr Bishop and Mrs Bergkamp advocated in their joint amendment not to talk about social security, but to say more specifically: social, physical and psychological security. I have already done so in the explanatory statement and in the answer to the questions. My objection to this amendment is that it is not entirely consistent. It changes the term "social security" in the three strokes mentioned, but in other articles of law this is translated into safety in general. That is risky, because then you are talking about far more than we mean by social security in this context. This includes, for example, the safety of play equipment and fire safety. That is much wider than the law we are discussing today. In that respect, I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u198	I'm afraid there's been a misunderstanding. Under this law, it is a matter of physical, psychological and social security. The problem with the term "social security" in this law is that it is confusing. This includes physical and psychological safety. This gives you the strange confusion of the term "social security" in a broad sense and in a narrower sense. That's why you're confusing yourself. In this law, "safety" should be defined as "physical, psychological and social security." That's what you call security under this law. That is separate from arbosity or from all kinds of other regulations. These define "safety" on specific aspects. In my view, our amendment is an improvement on the terminology used. That is at least the intention of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u199	I don't have much of an intention problem. If you want this, you could include in the terms of the law what is meant by "social security." This amendment amends this into specific articles. One time it is described in concrete terms and it is about social, physical and psychological security, but other times it is drawn much wider and it is only about security. This creates uncertainty about the scope of the law. I would advise Mr Bishop to take a closer look at the amendment. With what it says now, I can't get out of my way. However, a good definition in the terms of the law is a different story. If the amendment is amended to that effect, I will look again at the advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u200	If Mrs Bergkamp agrees, we will take a look at that together with your people. We will look into how we can make this improvement in terminology.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u201	In the amendment to item No. 10 is requested for a General Management Measure in relation to the basis of the monitoring. I do not immediately object to this amendment, but it is not really necessary. Good agreements have been made with the PO Council and the VO Council that this will be further developed in the inspection frameworks. The amendment will not add so much to that practice. I have no objection in principle to it. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is the Bergkamp amendment c.s. in piece No. 13, on anchoring the right of assent in the Law on participation in schools. I have some reservations about this amendment because it makes a section very specific. I am referring here to the fact that the participation council already has the right of assent to the school's security policy. This is provided for in Article 10, section e, in the Law on participation in schools. I actually think that's what this is all about. You make it so specific that it almost becomes a kind of fremdkörper in the Wms and the question is whether it is really necessary in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u202	It's not a matter of security policy. That is why the SP, the Christian Union and D66 have explicitly appointed it. We think it's important, because that monitor plays such an important role in the entire bill. The education inspection depends on the information from it. We lack a little the involvement of the people who are involved, the young people and also the parents. When it comes to primary education, we are talking about parents and teachers. We are talking about young people and teachers. So we're missing that involvement on this part. So it is not part of the security policy. With this amendment, we have made that explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u203	I would almost say that I think it is part of the security policy. After all, this requires how to promote this and how to identify whether the policy is effective. So let me give a slightly different explanation of the breadth of the security policy. If we go down the road of making the Wms very detailed for very specific things, we will immediately get the flexibility out of the legislation. Perhaps I can reassure Mrs Bergkamp by saying that I believe that security policy not only hears what you do, but also how you map out whether it is effective and how the school monitors it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u204	For the history of law, this statement by the Secretary of State is important. I will have a moment with my co-sponsors to see if the amendment is still necessary. If the Secretary of State also wants to make that point explicit in the communication to the schools, so that it is also about the monitor, I think I will also look at Mrs Siderius...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u205	Has the amendment been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u206	Sorry, Chairman. I asked another question, namely whether the Secretary of State would like to take this explicitly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u207	I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u208	The Bergkamp amendment c.s. (Part No 13) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u209	I think that we have one more amendment, namely that in part. 12 by Mr Bertema. I'd like to advise against that. There are two elements in it. The first is the three strikes and you're out principle. I actually see that very difficult to implement in schools, regardless of whether you consider it desirable at all. The second is re-introducing the incident record. That is precisely what has been said, with reasons, that it does not provide sufficient comfort and leads to a great deal of bureaucracy. It's better to monitor the situation properly and that's in the bill. Re-introducing a whole administration leads to a lot of unnecessary paperwork. Mr. Chairman. We're ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u210	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first deadline for dealing with this bill. Given the time, I suggest we keep a short second term. At least, if there's a need. I'll ask first. I see that Mrs Siderius is already standing, so I am happy to give her the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u211	Mr. Chairman. It is nice that we can have a second term, because I am a little disappointed with the answers of the Secretary of State. He has no analysis of how bullying has become such an important issue that we should even talk about it here in Parliament. When asked for an objective, the Secretary of State says that he finds it difficult and that it should be reduced. However, what we can charge him for is not clear. Then he says that there are no clear figures at all. If there are no clear figures and if the problem is not clear, what are we doing here and what is this bill based on? We get the impression that the Secretary of State is still trying to keep a little in the air that he wants to recommend the anti-bullying methods that are proven to be effective. We've been interrupting a lot about this tonight. Finally, however, the Secretary of State said: yes, you know, just use your common sense, because then you listen to scientists. In the end, the Secretary of State is trying to steer a bit towards those anti-bullying methods that are proven to be effective. And I think that's exactly what the Chamber doesn't want. I have two motions. The first is about scaling up education. According to the SP, this is one of the reasons why the climate in schools in the Netherlands is becoming increasingly unsafe. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that the scale increase in education has not contributed to a safe school environment;]] [[calls on the Government to present a plan of approach to scale reduction in education by 1 January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34130-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u212	I'll be on the Disputes Committee and the Children's Ombudsman. The Secretary of State presented his plan of action on bullying in March 2013. On page 5, you can read: if there are cases where parents or pupils have complaints, they can contact the Children's Ombudsman. According to the SP, however, that Kinderombudsman is not objective, at least when it comes to this subject. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that parents and pupils with complaints about social security at school should initially turn to the school itself and subsequently to the Children's Ombudsman;]] [[noting that the Kinderombudsman continues to defend the questionable effects of anti-bullying programmes;]] [[calls on the Government to place the Disputes Commission with an (other) independent body,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34130-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u213	There have now been several talks about the Children's Ombudsman. Several spokesmen said that they did not consider the statements of the Children's Ombudsman to be correct. Now, however, Mrs Siderius is tabling a motion which really wants to relieve him of his duties. The Kinderombudsman is appointed by this parliament. Is the SP coming up with a proposal to relieve the Children's Ombudsman of his duties? Mrs Siderius, with her motion, is actually suspicious of the Children's Ombudsman. I am happy that we are making critical comments, but I find it difficult now. I believe that the debate on the functioning of the Kinderombudsman always takes place with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u214	The VVD Group has clearly not listened carefully. I have said that the statements of the Children's Ombudsman on this subject are very debatable and that we do not have the confidence that the Children's Ombudsman on this subject is the right independent body for resolving disputes between schools, parents and pupils. It must be clear and there must be no doubt about it. That is why it is just better to refer this to another independent body, so that pupils who are bullied and their parents feel free to turn to that other body in the last instance for a binding ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u215	I myself am critical of the Kinderombudsman's statement, but we have appointed him. The Kinderombudsman is the body where parents and children can go for all kinds of points. Mrs Siderius is actually saying that I do not agree on one point. I find that very difficult, because if everyone is going to do so, their position will of course be seriously undermined. I think we should discuss this in the debate on the position of the Children's Ombudsman. I expect the SP to do the same. That way we can have the conversation there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u216	Yes, I think I have already made it clear what my group's position is. In my group's view, if the Children's Ombudsman makes such disconcerting statements on such a difficult and vulnerable subject, it is simply sensible to remove that doubt. The Children's Ombudsman will direct the Disputes Committee. Let's just move the Disputes Committee to another independent body.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u217	Thank you very much. On behalf of Mr Bishop and Mr Voordewind, I should like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I call Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u218	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. We talked today about what you can do to deal with bullying. We talked about schools, parents, children and politics. I'm glad there's a Secretary of State's plan, there's an action plan. I'm glad there's a law, too. I think that as a politician, we have done everything we can to stimulate things. It has become clear that schools are free to choose an anti-bullying method. I don't have any more doubts about it. I think this is also very important. We have indicated that transparency about the results for parents and young people is important. The Secretary of State has indicated that he agrees and that he will pay attention to this in the progress report. He will also discuss Windows. It is important that parents and young people are informed. I am glad that the current monitor takes place at least once a year. It is important that the discussion stops on how often this should happen. Once a year is the minimum you can expect. The Secretary of State has undertaken to stimulate two things in relation to the key objectives of sexuality and sexual diversity. He will engage with teacher training courses and also consult with the PO Council and the VO Council to promote attention, sensitivity, for vulnerable young people. Can the Secretary of State explicitly include these points in the progress report to the Chamber? I have another motion. I think it's important to submit these anyway. We're talking about young people today. We also talk a lot about parents who wrestle. Often they don't really have an independent point of contact. Of course we have the plague coordinator, but I think it is important that there is a point where parents and children can go easily and where experience experts are also used. Those are people who know much better how to deal with certain things. In the whole story, that's been a little lacking. We are talking about abstract concepts such as "Windows" and "monitors," hence the next motion. I hope for a positive response from the Secretary of State. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a great deal of knowledge in the Netherlands, that it is a shame to reinvent the wheel, that it is often for parents and young people to find the right information and that a digital knowledge base is available for pabos and teacher training;]] [[Considering that combating bullying requires low-threshold facilities, that bullying needs tailor-made work, that best practices for parents, children and bullying coordinators should be available and that experience experts can make a valuable contribution;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a challenge in cooperation with experience experts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34130-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u219	Yes, Mr President, I need a second term, even though the PvdA thinks it can all be hammered off because it's already inside. But it's not like that in parliament. There is another opposition that has something to say and which attaches great importance to it. I would like to ask the PvdA's lady to have the patience to hear this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u220	It is always a pleasure to listen to Mr Beertema. Of course I'd like to give him the opportunity to speak. I'm just a little tired. Perhaps you too, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u221	We're all tired, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I heard a remarkable question from Mrs Bergkamp to the CDA group, namely why the CDA has so much trouble with that law. I didn't get that question. I don't know what that means. Everything here means something, but just to be safe, I'm gonna give you my own objection one more time. Our objection is that this law does not add enough to what is already there. The existing obligations lack the sanction for the bullies, but they are also explicitly lacking in the law that is now before us. Although this law provides a framework for the inspection to take action if it is necessary, I would like to say this to myself, but there is now such an excellent opportunity to provide for it and to introduce a proportionate, balanced sanction to tackle the bullies. This can be done by embracing our amendment. I'll make that call for the last time. I would like to read one thing from the reactions of parents I once read about a stabbing at a school: "I don't always agree with the PVV either, but here they have a very good point. Parents of the bullies often don't see the problem because they don't see the grief and impotence of the bullied and his or her parents. This act cannot be approved, but apparently it was his last'remediation'. That's how you see some bullying. I, too, once told my son's bully's parents, "One day, he's gonna hit back. One day he's gonna make it stop. Then it's too late. Then you can take your son away in a coffin and put my son behind bars." I was laughed at. I was out of my mind. Fortunately it has stopped over time, but the scars always remain with my son, but certainly also in our family. A piece of paper can also be smoothed after the crumple, but the wrinkles remain. Whatever you do, it'll never be as smooth as it was. So are the scars on the bullied and his family. Take the bullies harder and better, because the way things are going, things aren't going well. That's what it turns out all the time." I'd like to give that to you anyway. Moreover, without our amendment being accepted, we will have to vote against this law. We do not want to commit ourselves to another toothless tiger who does not do the victims justice enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u222	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be very brief. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions and commitments, including for transparency, where parents can choose for themselves and know what they will do when they choose a school, to work and report back to the Chamber. I asked the Secretary of State to take another look at the IBT children. He has said that this is reported in the context of sexual diversity as a core objective. In the context of this process, too, I think it is appropriate to pay particular attention to this issue. I have not yet received an answer to that question. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the question of child abuse. We agree that this is a different story. But because schools also have certain obligations in this area through the reporting code, we can very well make the commitment there. I think it is very important for children to be heard in a good way and that one knows what one can do, even at school, which is then a safe place for them. The school can't fix it, but it can make sure the referral to help is okay. We still have a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u223	Mr. Chairman. The example with which the Secretary of State began his speech in the first term, which was about a student who was bullied and did not feel safe in his classroom but wanted to go to school, is exactly an example that leads me to wonder what exactly this bill is going to yield for that student. I just haven't figured it out yet. I am not yet convinced of the usefulness and necessity of the law, but say that I am satisfied with the response, for example, in the field of effective methods. Schools remain free to choose methods they want and are judged on the result. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that important information. With my group, I would also like to weigh up the movement of social security in line with the requirements. I remain convinced that the action plan, which the sector itself is taking up, is of value and that we must embrace it. I know that there have been agreements between the Councils and the Secretary of State. In the introduction it says that the Councils think it is fantastic that legislation should be put in place. In the end, I'm interested in what the schools think. I doubt this is necessary. When considering the matter in my group, I will take the answer of the Secretary of State on several points with emphasis. There is one more point I would like to make. What this bill does is to settle something vertically about accountability to the inspection. It's horizontal to parents and students not filled out. I personally feel that responsibility should be directed at this in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u224	Mr. Chairman. It remains an important subject. I think that teachers in particular have an essential role to play. This law is another good step in the right direction, but a study by EenVandaag recently showed that half of the teachers need training in this field. That's a lot of teachers. Luckily, that's also possible. Augeo has trained 20,000 teachers in the field of child abuse in a year. It is possible to arrange that quickly and properly, and that is also affordable. The research shows that there are major learning effects among teachers, so I hope that OCW and educational partners will work together to reach tens of thousands of teachers in this area. I would like to be informed in the letter the Minister has promised on teacher training, whether attention is paid to it. However, I find it worrying that the report on safety and education shows that many teacher training courses do not yet address this issue. When I was in teacher training, I didn't pay any attention to it either. I don't know what that was like with colleagues. That's a real hit that still needs to be made. Furthermore, I am extremely pleased with all the commitments, such as that cyberbullying is included in the monitoring, including notificationknob.nl and the Security Monitor. The call will be taken. I agree with Mr Rog's last comment on horizontal accountability. The Secretary of State has promised to come forward with a new proposal on accountability. As far as I am concerned, it has to be taken into account, for example, that the annual report will be compulsory. Mr Straus and I have asked for this before. Then you take that volunteer away and you commit the schools to account for some things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u225	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we have been able to talk about it so widely and in detail. I also very much appreciate the fact that a number of critical parties have indicated in the final second term that they will assess the legislative proposal on its merits. I hope this will be positive, because I think this is an essential element of education. We've started this wide. I would be delighted if this bill could be broadly supported in the near future. There are two things. Firstly, there is the reason: why are we talking about this? I would like to say to Mrs Siderius that these sad and profound incidents of the end of 2012 were the cause. They, of course, pushed us all to the point again. You can say that the figures in the safety monitors are always stable and that many more children are not being bullied or bullied. We are, of course, concerned with the small target group that suffers from this day in and day out and no longer enjoys going to school, and with the child who even robs himself of life for this. Of course, something like that is terrible and goes through marrow and bone. Therefore, I think it is really good if we all say that safety at school is very important. Let us all say that this is a core task of education. In fact, that's what we're doing with this bill. This brings me to Mr Rog's questions on usefulness and necessity. What exactly is the point of that one student? It will benefit from a legislative proposal which will at least make it clear that there can be no school that is not committed to this. I am pleased that a broad action plan has been set out in education to launch a movement. However, we must also note that there are always schools that, despite such a broad movement, do not do enough; as well as there are schools that sometimes lag behind in other important areas of education, such as learning outcomes or otherwise. It is therefore a good thing that there is an inspection, which can not only observe this, but also intervene where necessary. I think that the legislative proposal in this area is really an improvement over now. Now we are checking a paper reality: is there a plan in the drawer, is there a paragraph in the school plan? We don't really know about school security. But now we're gonna take a look at that. In that sense we really make a move towards result and look more at the ultimate goal that this should serve. Just a few more small questions. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether the promotion of sexuality could be included in the progress report. I think that's a good idea. Mr Beertema spoke about the tough treatment of bullies. I want to tell him that with this bill we are really taking a step forward. We're gonna tell schools to work on this. In fact, I would say that the schools should tackle those bullies. There's nothing in this bill that's gonna stop schools from doing that. I understand that Mr Beertema may not go far enough, but you may also wonder whether it is not good to take a step forward and therefore vote in favour of this, even if that step is perhaps less large than you would have wished. Finally, Mrs Van der Burg asked about the extra attention paid to sexuality in education, especially to the lhbt target group. I would like to take this back to the answers I gave to Mrs Bergkamp about the method builders. We do not make this monitoring system ourselves. This is a point of interest, so we can at least ask them to give us a place to do so. I will raise this with them together with the PO Council and VO Council. Three motions have been tabled. The first motion by Mrs Siderius on item No. 14, calls for an investigation into scale reduction. I'm deceiving that motion. No relationship between scale and bullying has been demonstrated. That is why I do not want to go into that. In the second motion by Mrs Siderius, on item No. 15, is asked to place the Disputes Committee elsewhere and no longer with the Children's Ombudsman. I do not agree with the rather spicy words Mrs Siderius has said here about the Children's Ombudsman. It's one of the High Colleges of State, an easily accessible organization where parents and children can go if they have a point. That's really something other than a dispute committee. There is no such thing in this case. I'd like to keep that ombud function. I also note that many parents and students feel heard and like that they find hearing with their complaints there. In Mrs Bergkamp's motion on item No. 16 is asked to set up and set up a task force. May I explain and interpret the motion as follows? We try to involve parents and students more as experience experts, without creating another whole new thing. Instead, we're looking at whether we can somehow link this to an existing portal like School & Security. Then we can create a little mass and not all of us have separate websites and separate demand beacons. If I may explain the motion in this way, I would like to commit myself to it, and I can leave her to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u226	I welcome the Secretary of State's response. Indeed, it is not the intention to reinvent the wheel, precisely not, but to involve the experience experts. There's got to be a low-threshold point where they can go. I therefore welcome the explanation given by the Secretary of State to the motion. That's what she's meant to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u227	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the discussion of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-19-tweedekamer-9.u228	Next Tuesday we will vote on the bill, the amendments and the motions. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and all those present. I wish you a safe way home.
