ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister for Economic Affairs. Hey, he was just there. Oh, there you are again, Minister. You said to check the place out. I thought we were checking you out. Anyway, state law is not my strong suit. Welcome, again. There are eight speakers on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Graus of the PVV. Like almost everyone else, he has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. A letter from someone in the border region characterizes everything. He writes to me that he goes across the border, to Übach-Palenberg, to gas, because it is much cheaper there. He saves a lot of euros there. He immediately goes shopping there, because even the organic products in Germany are cheaper than the non-organic products in the Netherlands. Then he goes to a shopping mall, where he can park for free and where he can also go shopping and get a cheap crate of beer. At the end he buys some schnapps and drives back to the Netherlands. That's what happens. The minister is from Borculo. That may be a little too far from the border, no less than 55 kilometers away, but he needs to recognize this. There's no other way. In particular, border regions are heavily influenced by the government's policy of increasing excise duties. I mention the increase in excise duties on beer, wine and distilled by 6% in 2014. The excise duty on smoke products has been increased by €0,09 in 2015. And take the fuel: the litre price of petrol is €0.77 for excise duty and that of diesel is €0.48 for excise duty. VAT increased from 19% to 21% in 2012. The PVV asked several times to examine the economic and social consequences in the border regions by independent experts. I asked former Minister Maria van der Hoeven, us Maria from Maastricht. He just denied it. She said I was a mood maker. Of course you can't. At the end of 2014, Mr Bovens, the Limburg Commissioner of the King, who is called "Governor" of the Netherlands, offered an update of the border impact test on behalf of the seven Dutch border provinces. This report supports the approach taken by the PVV in its debates over recent years. Increased taxation and excise duty is bad for the economy, especially in the border region of the EU, where there are seven border provinces, but also for e.g. the Netherlands. This increase affects retailers, beer brewers, the agricultural sector, service stations, contractors and consumers in general. We have predicted the consequences of this increase from the outset. We have always said that much more will be refueled across the border, consumers will move even more to Belgium and Germany, while customers from the latter countries will buy less in the Netherlands, because all these burdens will increase prices here too. So it works from both sides very badly. In Limburg alone, where I was born and raised myself, this will result in damage to retail spending from 50 to 150 million euros a year. Brewers such as Grolsch, Gulpener and Alpha, who are heavily dependent on regional turnover, also suffer from the increases. Tank stations in border areas sell up to 39% less fuel. We want the Minister to take action on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	I hear Mr Graus from the PVV say that the border impact test has a very warm interest from the PVV group. Now a motion was tabled on 19 November 2013 in the First Chamber, by my colleague Terpstra and others, and that motion did not reach a single vote. Unfortunately, the PVV Group did not vote in favour of this motion. I hear all these warm words now, but I would also like to hear from Mr Graus why that was not the case at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	I can explain that. At the CDA, it may be one incestuous gang, but it's not ours. The First Chamber is really loose...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr President, I do object to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	Well, let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	No, Mr. Graus. I'm interrupting. I'm the chairman. Don't say what you just said. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr President, I say it as I say it. They're my words. It's up to me. Here's what's important. The First Chamber is with us separate from the House of Representatives. With you, Mrs Mulder, perhaps it is not. I've been pleading here for eight years...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mr President, I really object to this!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u11	You're talking through me. Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mrs Mulder has a point of order. She wants to say something about Mr Graus' contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u13	I find this way of speaking totally disrespectful. I am sorry that Mr Graus of the PVV chooses this approach. I'm just asking him a very nice question. Next thing I know, there's something about me that's really not right. And I think Mr Graus himself knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u14	But I don't like it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u15	He could also choose other words. It would please him if he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u16	Can I just say something now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u17	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u18	I'm standing here behind the chair, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yeah, but I'm the chairman. I understand that you would like to make a personal statement on Mr Graus' comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yes. I really don't think it looks like anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u21	Then that's what happened here. I call Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u22	In particular, the CDA has made possible all those increases I just mentioned. The CDA was in the cabinet then, and now it's going to play the merciful Samaritan? That stings me. I asked Minister Van der Hoeven seven years ago to investigate it and do something about it. She said then that I was a mood maker, that it was exaggerated and that it didn't play at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u23	I just can't get an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u24	Yes, as far as the First Chamber is concerned, you should ask the PVV Group in the First Chamber. That's not my call, is it? I am in the Lower House and that is the First Chamber: Second Chamber - First Chamber. I'm sorry, but I can't make it any clearer. Mrs Mulder says something about the Upper House to a Member of Parliament. I'm not in charge of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u25	I conclude, then, that Mr Graus is not answering my question. I'm very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u26	The reason I have heard from the MP of the PVV is that the motion stated that it might have consequences for the entrepreneurs. We've been saying that for eight years! That was the reason why the PVV Group in the First Chamber did not agree. The CDA has allowed the increases in excise duties. Let's make that very clear. We have been advocating reductions in excise duties for eight years. That is the way it should be, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u27	You have 14 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u28	We want a reduction to at least 1% among neighbouring countries. How much excise duty on fuel has the Dutch state missed, how much extra unemployment is due to the increase in recent years, what is the executive's action plan to stand up for the border regions and where is the border of this govern ment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u29	Mr. Chairman. I must say that it is extremely quick that we are having this debate six months after Mr Graus has requested a debate on the border impact test. It is absolutely essential that we talk about this. Graus said it already: for cross-border living, working, shopping and entrepreneurship, you often run into a bunch of rules. There is unfair competition and I think that the whole Chamber is now ready to say that it wants to make it easier to live, shop, work and recreate across the border. Unnecessary rules should not stand in the way of this. Actually, a very simple question has been asked to the cabinet: develop a border impact test so that you can check laws and regulations and policies and get an insight into the effects. If the effects are too detrimental, you try to remove them of course. That's what we asked the cabinet. When did we do that? In November, we asked the Minister for the Interior, Mr Plasterk. I was the one who tabled a motion to call on the cabinet to develop the border impact test. I hope Minister Kamp knows about this too, because Minister Plasterk promised on behalf of the cabinet that he would take the border impact test. That was a firm commitment in November 2014. If a minister makes such a commitment on behalf of the cabinet, this means that the cabinet is aware of the content of the problem and is going to work actively on the test. I now come to my questions to Minister Kamp. After all, there is a unity of government policy, so he will be able to respond to this. What has happened within the government since November 2014 and has been discussed about the border impact test promised by Minister Plasterk of the Interior and what role does the Minister of EZ play in this? Are the border regions involved in the consultation and in what way? What progress has been made in the dossier and what are the current bottlenecks? Finally, it is a question, call or wish from my group to come to the Chamber well before the summer, let us say in May, so that we can discuss it. Those were my questions to the government, Mr President, and I have one more question for you: where did Mr Samsom's chair go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u30	I see a representative of the Labour Party, who may have taken him. We're gonna get to the bottom of this. Meanwhile, we are going to listen to Mr Van Veen of the VVD. Let's see if he has an alibi for Mr. Samsom's chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u31	Unfortunately, Mr President! Mr. Chairman. It has taken a while, but we have already been able to talk about this subject during the budget debate. I have also recently asked the Minister in writing what is going on in the East of the Netherlands, where acquisition is carried out by Germany. The fact that Dutch companies are lured to Germany with attractive land prices is not new, but acquisition is. The pro-active attitude of the Bundesamt in the East of the Netherlands seems to produce results for Germany. Like the Minister, I appreciate the work of our own NFIA and our development companies, but I ask the Minister whether more priority can be given to the preservation of Dutch companies in the border region. 'Cause that doesn't always go well. An entrepreneur approached me and told me that he deliberately flirts with Germany and tells this to everyone, but eagerly wants to stay in the Netherlands. However, he lacks support. He hears what can't be done in the Netherlands instead of what can, and has to check lists, rules and tables. It is a more frequent complaint, which is not always part of a negotiating strategy. Experiences from entrepreneurs show that under pressure many things become liquid. When drivers and politicians are concerned, we need to be able to talk much faster. Can the Minister promise that it will be possible to react more quickly, that local authorities will be provided with economic aid and that everything will be done to preserve Dutch companies for the Netherlands? I had contact with one of those companies under Dutch ownership that are already established in Germany. This company wanted to fill a total of 40 vacancies with Dutch employees, with the help of the UWV. The transport to Germany was arranged, the Dutch premiums for AOW and Anw would be paid and all thresholds would be removed. And after months, the UWV came up with, yes, four candidates. Then the brave entrepreneurs fall into the shoes, and rightly so. In some border regions, the unemployment rate is higher than 18. Yet we cannot manage to get people across borders to work. The problems are taken seriously. The task force for cross-border cooperation is there for a reason. I brought the action list today. Many action points are not of recent date but above all, and that is more important, not completed. Can the Minister inform the Chamber on the economics and labour mobility sections of why this progress is stagnating? The governor in Limburg asks this Chamber to include a border impact test in the CPB's accounts for future cabinet formations by default. That seems to me to be the case with future reformers. For the VVD, the burden on citizens and businesses is an integral part of any decision it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u32	That was your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u33	That was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u34	As a representative of Limburg's people with close contacts with our governor, I naturally ask for this more often. I know the rigidity of our minister. I am therefore again prepared to table a motion to ask him to continue monitoring border effects in the event of policy changes and new legislative proposals and implementing rules, and to have current border issues examined by independent experts. I want to know what Mr Van Veen is going to do with that. How does the VVD feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u35	I indicated at the end of my speech that the governor is asking for a border impact test on new cabinet formations. I also said that I believe that this is up to future Cabinets. So I am not in favour of this extra bureaucracy. I'm not in favour of always entering border effects tests. If, therefore, the thrust of the motion is as has just been read out, I will not support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u36	The governor's words don't add up either. I have to take it for our governor anyway. On the contrary, the governor wants to introduce the test in general, including care and employment, and not just for excise duties on alcohol and fuel. He wants to introduce him generally in policy changes and new legislative proposals and implementing rules. That really was our governor's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u37	I don't really hear a question. I'm referring to Panteia's report I've read. It states that the governor proposes that a border impact assessment should be carried out by default in addition to the CPB transfer of new, future cabinet formations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u38	I'm getting a little confused right now. Mr Van Veen says: we are not going over the border impact test now. As I have just said in my speech, Minister Plasterk has given that test. He also sent letters to the Chamber on 17 December 2014 and on 7 January 2015. It says he's working on the border effects test. I assume this will be done with the agreement of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u39	There is talk of an overall border impact test and I am asked what the VVD thinks about it. An overall border impact assessment in every decision we take here leads to unnecessary bureaucracy. We have not yet received the letter from Minister Plasterk. It was intended to be submitted for this debate, but I have not yet seen it. That position is clear as far as the VVD is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u40	I think there is the problem here that this is in another box in the permanent Committee on the Interior and not so much in the permanent Committee on Economic Affairs. Minister Plasterk really sent two letters. Let me put the question the other way around: the VVD is not going to table a motion today to drop the border effects test, which the cabinet is working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u41	I think this is a rhetorical question. My answer to that is no. I'm very curious what the Minister will eventually come up with. I stand by the position that the VVD has always taken so far, namely that a standard border impact test has no added value and that this can be assessed on a subject-by-matter basis. There are also ministries that do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr Van Veen has spoken for three minutes now, but I have not learned anything. We do not yet know what the VVD stands for. Let us make it a little more concrete. Last night, RTL presented a broadcast about a covenant between the Tax Administration and the temporary agency industry with which Dutch workers are disadvantaged. Can't we do that right away? Can we ensure that a level playing field is created for Dutch and foreign workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u43	I don't know enough about that particular case. I didn't see RTL's program. In general, the VVD is in favour of people who cannot find a job in the Netherlands being able to work abroad easily. I went to the Social Insurance Bank's website this afternoon as a test. I just wanted to see how easy it is to pay your supplementary AOW premium or the premium for the General Survivors Act. That's actually very simple. The VVD calls on the cabinet to remove as many barriers as possible, so that people who are unemployed in the Netherlands can work abroad. The VVD calls for this more often and I think I have made this quite clear in my first term. If Dutch companies that have established themselves in Germany ask for Dutch employees, I am disappointed if the UWV comes up with no more than four suitable candidates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u44	It's the other way around. Foreign workers working in the Netherlands receive a discount through their employer on the premium to be paid, which makes Dutch workers wishing to work in the Netherlands more expensive. That was the core of RTL News broadcast. I regret that Mr Van Veen has not seen it. I will look into this in more detail in my own contribution in a moment. I hope that the VVD believes that the level playing field should also apply to the aspect of foreign workers working in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u45	That was Mr Van Veen's contribution. Meanwhile, there is news about Mr Samsom's chair. It's just in the hallway. It has been removed because of our highly esteemed colleague Otwin van Dijk who, as you know, is in a wheelchair. He needed some space to park in there. So there is no need to panic, Mr Schouw. I call Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. I'm going back to last night's broadcast of RTL News. Yesterday we were informed that Dutch employees are being put at considerable disadvantage vis-à-vis their foreign colleagues by a covenant between the Tax Administration and the temporary agency industry. In this way foreign workers are fiscally preferred over Dutch workers, with the approval of the Tax Administration. What does the Minister think of the fact that the same wage is not paid for the same work here, but that an unfair wage is actually paid through tax incentives? Does he agree with the SP that there should not be a tax regime that favours a group of workers over another group of workers? The SP is not in favour of this arrangement. I believe that almost everyone agrees that workers should be treated equally. So that should also apply to the Minister. I can't wait to hear his reaction. I hope that we can put an end to this arrangement right now. The border impact test is also about the 30% regime. As early as 2012, the SP proposed that this regime be substantially reduced or abolished. Can this regime be abolished in the context of a level playing field? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. One of the conditions of the expat scheme is that there must be a specific expertise that is not or hardly available in the Dutch labour market. With limited expertise, you can make people from the Netherlands more expensive with this expertise than people from abroad. Can the Minister explain why this distinction is justified? Then there is VAT and excise duties. The accumulation of tax increases makes many people run around a lot to save some euros. If indirect taxes such as VAT, excise duties and consumption taxes go even further, several parties in the Chamber argue for this, it is already advantageous for people from the province of Utrecht to travel to Belgium or Germany to store fuel including groceries. Then try to have a business near the German or Belgian border and keep it profitable. The increase in excise duties is much less than budgeted. They're making a lot of trouble for the entrepreneurs. The border regions are losing activity at a rapid pace. If those few fictitious pennies are worth all that extra suffering, I ask the Minister. Does he recognise the significant border effects of the VAT and excise duty increases that Panteia reflects in the border impact test? And is he prepared to come up with proposals to ensure that the border effects of VAT and excise duties between the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany are removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr. Chairman. The 2014 border impact test commissioned by the province of Limburg shows that there are negative effects in the border region and that this can be due to national legislative proposals. A study by Leiden University, "We do so" from 2012, also shows that the risk of adverse border effects in European legislation is less in practice than in national legislation. The CDA would therefore like to introduce a national border impact assessment. New laws and regulations should then be subject to prior assessment of the impact on border regions. These results should also be publicly available. That is in line with the motion we have tabled before in the First Chamber, as you have just heard. D66 is also in favour of the same thing. The CDA believes that cross-border work should be made easier. As far as possible, social security, taxation and labour law thresholds should be removed. The recognition of diplomas can also be improved. The Chamber, through the Schouten/Agnes Mulder motion, has advocated resolving the bottlenecks. The CDA is asking the Minister today to take a test with the posting of BBL students and job seekers to German companies. In that construction, the employee simply continues to be covered by the Dutch collective agreement. As a result, system differences between the Netherlands are less important. In Germany there is a lot of demand for skilled workers, while in regions such as Twente, Limburg, Drenthe and Groningen there are many unemployed. However, learners and mediators from the region who want to place people face the regulatory uncertainties, the costs of placing pupils and workers and the risks. The CDA also calls on the Minister to address the problem of entrepreneurs with employees working a few hours across the border. The employer must report in advance and translate the contract of employment and the pay slips into German. This while the Dutch minimum wage is higher than the German, which is also controlled. The CDA would like the controls to be lightened or abolished for companies located in the Netherlands. Does the Minister recognize this problem? There has been a German-Dutch summit in Kleef, where a so-called Clevese agenda has been agreed. What's the progress on this agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u48	I call Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. I'm making a point of order from behind the interrupting microphone. I see that I have one minute's speaking time. The Registrar has told me that this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It means that I am being violated in my rights as a parliamentarians, as I cannot make an effective contribution to a debate in one minute, when I am a full representative of the people. I understand that you, as President, cannot change that now, and I do not blame you for that either. I realize that my speaking time is one minute. In the second term, I will table a motion, and I would like to make a few more sentences. That'll fill my minute. I have already announced that I will write a letter to the Bureau about this violation of my rights as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u50	We will read that letter with interest. By the way, you have a third of one minute in the second term, so that's twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u51	Mr. Chairman. It has already been recalled by other speakers that this debate was requested six months ago, also in response to questions by Mr Bovens on a border impact test. We note that the debate is moving in all directions. I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs for coming, because I think border regions are mainly concerned with economic issues and labour market issues. Unemployment in many border regions is high; so does the Minister. However, there are also many initiatives with action plans, investment agendas and agendas to remove barriers. All that to make working across borders easier. There are plenty of examples. I call the action plan Twente works, the Kleefse agenda and the Pact of the North. Yesterday, the Minister in Bergen op Zoom received an action plan following the closure of Philip Morris. In this plan, too, we find constructive ideas that should create jobs for today and economic recovery for tomorrow. The Minister gave his compliments yesterday. That's good, but we're not gonna get there by compliments alone. There is a real need to take action, for example in the area of tax laws and regulations, but I am also thinking of very practical matters relating to logistics and the recognition of diplomas. I have often drawn attention, together with Mrs Mulder, to these obstacles, also in various adopted motions. Last Friday I was in East Groningen, literally on the border with Germany. I was told a story there that almost pissed me off. There is a group of 40 Dutch nurses with mbo-3 levels. Germany had asked if they wanted to get to work there, because there they needed those hands on the bed very badly. But mbo-3 didn't match what was asked in Germany. Then the whole party didn't go through. I am very sorry to say that this kind of thing is causing very useful job losses. That is why we are calling for the Ministry of Economic Affairs or the Cabinet to be able to find a solution very quickly. This seems to me to be a very important instrument, because otherwise a lot of rules are being run into. Is the Minister prepared to organise such a border information point at one of the ministries? Local authorities need to be able to contact them very quickly if they run into obstacles of this kind. My final question is this: is it also possible to organise regional trade missions between the Netherlands and Germany or between the Netherlands and Belgium, for example, in order to take advantage of the opportunities for employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u52	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Groot of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is going through difficult times, but this applies to border regions in particular. We see that companies are increasingly moving their activities to the Randstad. The same thing you see happen to people: they want to live in the city more and more often. This contributes to the fact that border regions have very often become synonymous with shrinking regions. That is why it is all the more important that we ensure that the facilities in the border regions are maintained and that opportunities, which are still available, are exploited. My colleague Albert de Vries launched an action plan for shrinking regions last year. A round table will soon be held in the House of Representatives. It has already been said about the border effects of increases in excise duties. We have just debated this, which has led, among other things, to a letter from the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Wiebes, on how better to take account of border effects when taking fiscal measures. No misunderstanding: excise revenue is disappointing and border effects play a role. I note, however, that Panteia's report, which Mr Graus also mentioned, is somewhat nuanced. It still appears that the amount of expenditure of Germans and Belgians in the Netherlands is much larger than the other way around, that of the border region abroad. In Limburg alone, this is 800 million positive for the Netherlands, according to the Panteia report, and that is after the increases in excise duties. This is for relativization. That does not mean that the border regions need all the attention they can get. Unemployment in border regions is much higher than in the rest of the country. At the same time, there are many opportunities for jobs, particularly in Germany, opportunities that are not always exploited. It is still full of barriers when it comes to recognition of diplomas, the question of how to build your pension and your AOW, the right to supplements, mortgage interest deductions and so on. Those bottlenecks have long been known. They are also laid down in the so-called Bruls report, but very little happens to them. Last year my colleagues Nijboer and Kerstens had a motion (33615, nr. 10), in which the government is asked to identify these bottlenecks in frontier work and to provide solutions. I would like to ask the Minister what is going on with the implementation of this motion, because it is taking a very long time. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister, following Mr Schouw, what is the situation with regard to the border impact test? In a letter we received yesterday from Minister Plasterk, I read that the cabinet intends to consider such a border impact assessment, which was completed in an earlier report. So I would like to hear from the cabinet what the state of play is on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u54	Was that your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u55	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr Bashir wishes to put another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u57	I read on the website of the PvdA that the PvdA would critically review the covenant between the Tax Administration and the temporary agency industry. Wouldn't it be wiser to cancel the covenant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr Bashir has just raised this point, on which the PvdA Group has raised very critical questions. Indeed, it cannot be the case that, by tax means, temporary employment agencies are improperly achieving a wage wage advantage over Dutch workers; let us be very clear about that. We have asked questions about this and we await the answers. This will certainly be the subject of another debate. However, this issue does not really concern the border impact test, because this problem applies to the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u59	This is also a border effect. I would think that if there is such a big problem with more than EUR 250 million of damage, you will be actively on top of that rather than waiting for a very long time for your questions to be answered and only then to see if there is a debate to be held. Can't we work on it faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u60	Immediately after the broadcast of RTL News we asked questions. The questions will be answered soon. We will certainly have a debate on this, as far as we are concerned. If the answers to the questions give rise to this, we will immediately propose measures for this in the forthcoming Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you. So much for the first term of office. I understand the Minister can answer immediately. The chair goes up for him and I'd be happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber asked me to come and I'll come, of course. I will also try to respond as well as possible to what the Chamber has brought in. It is true that the Klamer himself will have noticed that there are a lot of issues, and that these are a lot of subjects that concern my colleagues in the Finance, Social Affairs, and Home Affairs and Kingdom relations. It is perhaps understandable to the Chamber that I do not have the most up-to-date information on the progress they are making with other rulers. But I will try, on the basis of the knowledge I have, to respond as best as possible to what the Chamber has put forward. Many spokesmen have spoken about the border impact test. That idea comes from a report commissioned by the province of Limburg by Panteia. Panteia pleads for such a border impact test. As Mr Van Veen said, this is a test to be released from a cabinet formation on the measures to be taken. The idea of a border impact test in the way that Panteia formulated was not put forward by the border provinces to my colleague from BZK, not even by Limburg. At the time, however, they indicated that they would like to be aware of the impact on border regions in the regular legislative preparation process. My colleague from BZK promised in the 2015 budget that he would look into whether and how he would proceed. He sent a letter about that today. So when it comes to the further, precise elaboration of the commitments he has made to the Chamber, I think it would be best for the Chamber to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about this. Today's letter might be a good reason for that. When we talk about border effects, it is good to continue to face reality. I heard Mr Bashir say that people from Utrecht drive to Belgium to shop there. I do not know how he imagines this, but the latest Eurostat figures available to me indicate that shopping in the supermarket in Germany is 10% more expensive than in the Netherlands. In Belgium it is even between 10% and 15% more expensive. It seems a bit strange to me to drive from Utrecht to Belgium. You don't see that that's the movement at all. Look at the movement between Limburg, Germany and Belgium; Mr Groot has already spoken about it. The latest figures available to Panteia are not the most up-to-date, but they give an indication. This shows that there is twice as much purchasing power from Belgium to Limburg than there is going from Limburg to Belgium. Twice as much from Belgium to Limburg! From Germany even four times as much goes to Limburg than vice versa. Those are not direct indications that we should really be afraid that people from Utrecht are going that way. Look at the developments, too. Belgium has announced its intention to increase excise duties on diesel and tobacco from 2016, but has also said that it will start from 1 March with a system whereby part of the price reduction that occurs as a result of the fall in oil prices will not be passed on to the pump but will be absorbed by higher excise duties. So you can see that the difference with Belgium in excise duties on fuel is dampened. Germany has already raised consumption taxes on tobacco three times in the last six months. Three times in six months! From this year on, they have decided to introduce standard 4% to 6% additional consumption tax on a pack of cigarettes. So you can see those differences disappearing there, too. I'm not saying there's nothing wrong. The excise duties on diesel and LPG were increased in the Netherlands on 1 January 2014. Of course, that has effects in the border region. We certainly shouldn't underestimate them either. The Chamber has also discussed this on a number of occasions with the Secretary of State for Finance. In the context of the cabinet formation, we have said that we must have additional income in order to overcome deficits. The increase in excise duty has also been part of this. The revenue from the increase in excise duty is indeed there. It is also substantial; it is not as high as expected, but it is there. What exactly is going to happen, what exactly is going to happen and what the policy means, the Secretary of State for Finance has discussed with the Chamber several times. I do not think I can present any new insights to the Chamber, but the picture is a little more nuanced than anyone might have thought at first. I shall now turn to the various points raised by the spokesmen. Mr Graus made the comparison with the prices in Germany and Belgium. I have now responded to that. He asked how much excise duty has gone missing and how much employment has disappeared. I do not have any data in this area. He's asking me to come up with an action plan. I do not know what exactly we need to come up with an action plan for. I have given the figures of developments in Germany and Belgium. I dealt with the price difference between Germany and the Netherlands and between Belgium and the Netherlands. I am not clear what action plan Mr Graus is asking for, so I cannot undertake to do so either. Mr Schouw has indicated that he is still behind that border impact test. That is, of course, important. If my colleague from BZK has come up with an impact on what he wants with this, it will certainly lead to an exchange of views between Mr Schouw and Mr Plasterk, I estimate. Mr Schouw asks what has happened on this point since November. This is also something that the BZK colleague will be happy to tell him. He wondered how border regions were involved. We have a lot to do with border regions. There is regular consultation with these regions. They have organized themselves and we are talking to them about the issues they are dealing with. We are also trying to find solutions to the concrete problems they face. A very good example is the Kleefse agenda, which Mrs Mulder asked for. In that agenda it was agreed that the German and Dutch authorities will jointly identify the obstacles faced by companies. Mrs Schouten mentioned the example of nurses who cannot go to Germany with their Dutch education. This is an example of things that businesses and institutions in Germany and the Netherlands encounter when things don't connect. The Chamber today received a letter on the Kleefse agenda in which Mr Plasterk addressed the professional qualification requirements that should be simplified, the authorised descriptions for MBO training and information that should be available to entrepreneurs. We implement this Kleefse agenda together with German and Dutch entrepreneurs. We are looking at what we can do and how we can solve the problems experienced by entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u63	This action plan is, of course, intended to sit down together with the seven border regions. It could also be an action plan to tackle the cross-border impact test between Germany and Denmark, which is a major success. Let me leave everything aside, because I don't feel like I'm gonna get very far with the Minister tonight. Is the Minister prepared to take this border impact test every time new policy rules and implementing decisions are adopted? That could save me a motion. This can be done in this action plan, in consultation with the seven border regions, by German/Danish example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u64	If the Chamber asks for a border impact test when examining the budget of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already communicated this to the Chamber a few times, as the last one today, I assume that following that last letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs or following a follow-up action by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, there will be an exchange of views between the Chamber and my colleague. It would be strange if I were to make a commitment to the Chamber here, if the one who is not responsible for that. If the cabinet acted that way, it wouldn't make the Chamber much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u65	I think it really is the Minister for SMEs. Entrepreneurs go to hell. Let me disconnect it from the consumers for a moment. Look at everything that's happened. In 2014 alone, 578 million litres of diesel were fueled less, 117 million litres less LPG and so on. I could go back and name that whole rigging. There are real SMEs in trouble. I refer to the Minister for Economic Affairs. I am not talking about a general border impact test, but purely specific economic and also social issues, for which the Minister is jointly responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u66	Entrepreneurs go to hell, but I have just explained that there is a large influx of purchasing power from Belgium to the Netherlands and from Germany to the Netherlands, especially to Limburg. In Germany a number of excise duties have been increased and they are being increased even further. In Belgium, they do the same thing. Entrepreneurs are therefore a little short by the turn. Then I come to the effects of the increase in excise duties on fuels. Last year, on 1 January 2014, the excise duty on diesel was increased. The result, perhaps part of it, but it can also be because of more fuel-efficient cars or the economy that is less, is that 8% less diesel was sold in the Netherlands last year. The excise duty on petrol has not been increased at all; there was only an inflation adjustment, but no policy increase, and 9% less petrol was sold in the Netherlands last year. The relationship between increases in excise duties and turnover is therefore not so easy to make. That is why it is good that we always try to provide you with the most detailed information. My colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, who is responsible for excise duties, is best able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u67	The Minister is right to say that a letter has been sent to the Chamber today, including on the elaboration of the Clevese agenda and the removal of obstacles, for example in the case of diplomas. He himself says that the diplomas should be recognized and that the connection should be improved. That's some kind of future music. Does he also think that, in the meantime, we should look for pragmatic solutions, for example by organising such a border desk, and that we should look quickly at how we can act now? Then we do not have to wait for more fundamental discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u68	Germany and the Netherlands are separate countries with their own culture and their own legislation. They are sent from Europe, but they are separate countries. Everything you have in the Netherlands, you can't just let go of Germany and the other way around. If you see that the nurses in the Netherlands are unemployed and that there is work on the other side of the border where they can't go because they just don't connect, I think that's just as bad as you do. I also think we should make sure that we do something about it. That's what the Clevese agenda is for. Our Prime Minister met with the Chancellor in Germany with a number of ministers. At that time we said: we also consider this kind of thing, which you think is important. Let us let entrepreneurs and institutions on both sides of the border tell us exactly what is wrong and let us solve it by doing so. That is a very concrete approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u69	I would like to say the following about your suggestion. There are quite a few facilities, including for local authorities, to report problems and get information. I am prepared to discuss with the VNG whether the information available to local authorities at the moment is sufficient, or whether there is a need for a provision as suggested by you. I will therefore discuss this with the VNG and inform the Chamber of its outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u70	In any case, I would like to thank the Minister very much for this commitment. I had prepared a motion on this point, but I hear what he says about this commitment. Can he indicate a little more specifically when the Chamber will be informed about this? I think it is important to keep up the momentum with regard to organising this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u71	I think I should do this in the first quarter of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u72	That's three months, so before April 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u73	I have just heard the Minister say that there are different legal systems between the Netherlands and Germany. That's right, of course. That is also why many people are in uncertainty about the consequences of working across borders, building up pensions elsewhere, their social security position, etc. This contributes to the fact that some people refrain from actively seeking work across borders, while there are also great opportunities. How does the Minister view the information position of the average Dutch job seeker as regards the information distributed and collected via websites? I myself am a tax lawyer and I may be able to find out what all the consequences would be for me if I found a nice job in Germany and went to work there. However, I do not think that the average fellow citizen can do that easily. How does the Minister feel about that? What does he think of this information position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u74	The average citizen is now informed via the Internet. That's the best way to do it. An overview can be found and the most up-to-date information can be found on it. We have a separate government website, namely borderinfo.nl, with everything on it. That's what all the usual situations are all about. We are going to take this one step further, because of course there are also special situations. In the first half of 2015 we will not only update that website, but we will also develop special situations. So it's not like you have to go all the way to get information about working across the border. Go to borderinfo.nl and you can find the information you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u75	As a Member of Parliament, I am reaching a lot of noises from people who really do not have enough of that and who do not find out how that is going to work out for their particular situation, precisely because they are dealing with the complex issue of taxes, social security contributions, pension status and so on. So I do not think that website is adequate enough. Can the Minister comment on what he thinks is going to be done on the floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u76	You mention a number of things that we think are very complicated. However, those are just the things we created that website for. This includes information on pensions, for example. If you work in Germany, you will not build a pension in the Netherlands. If you go to work in Germany, you pay taxes there. Of course, all these things are complicated, but for that we created that website. That's a professional government website, on which you can find that information. I have already said that, of course, there are people with special situations. They're being incorporated into that too. In addition, it is still possible to get people on the phone and ask for additional information that applies to their own situation. I therefore believe that this information is sufficient. I have received from Mr Schouw a number of questions which I quickly addressed in my introduction. These relate to the border effects test. Mr Schouw wants it all to be done before the summer. I also think that this will be his commitment in consultation with my colleague. We'll see what comes out of it. It seems particularly useful to me to look at the impact of measures on entrepreneurs in the border area. We have a lot of borders in the Netherlands and there is a lot going on and on. I have already said that there is much more coming in from the other side than leaving in Limburg, but well. Perhaps a border impact test will also be set up in Germany and there will be very different findings. But that doesn't matter. Let us do our job for ourselves. I can very well imagine that my colleague from BZK will come up with a more detailed version of what the Chamber has requested on this point and that this could lead to satisfaction in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u77	Could lead; I hope so too. I note that the Minister is speaking with some distance about the coordinating colleague who will be talking to the Chamber in due course. I also had a question for this Minister, namely whether he, or the Ministry, is involved in the establishment of the border impact test, which is coordinated by BZK. Or hasn't a line been laid yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u78	I always talk like that. It is not that I talk about my colleague from BZK remotely, a highly valued colleague with whom I work excellently and also with great pleasure. He's got me all mixed up in this kind of thing, too. I don't have any complaints about that. When he comes to the Chamber with his vision, that is also a vision in which I can agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u79	I can see the passion with this minister. He says he's also consulting with the Home Secretary. Can the minister go a little further? What's this meeting about? What lines are being set? If this minister is so closely involved in the border impact test, can he tell us when it is ready and when the Chamber can get anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u80	I'm involved in everything. In the Council of Ministers, I am also talking about asylum policy, foreign affairs and what happens at I and M. It is not for me, however, to communicate with the Chamber about this, is it? If you ask my colleague about BZK's budget, then there will be an exchange of letters with you and my colleague will come up with an outline of a subject that you have asked for attention to be given to. Wouldn't it be crazy if, on the basis of contacts I have with him, I were to discuss this with you? I don't think that's clear for you. I imagine you would like to discuss BZK issues with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm eager to discuss EZ topics with you. Mr Van Veen has indicated that he would like to see more priority given to businesses in the border region. It is not the case that the entrepreneurs in the Dutch border region are losers, compared to the entrepreneurs in the German region. Entrepreneurs in the Dutch border region Groningen, Drenthe, Overijssel, the Gelderland region, the Limburg area. Of course there are companies that go to Germany, but there are also companies that go from Germany to the Netherlands. There are also foreign companies that want to go to Europe. Looking at them: where are we going, to Germany, to the United Kingdom or to the Netherlands? In disproportionately many cases they go to the Netherlands, because the location climate in the Netherlands is attractive. I have looked at what foreign companies who have doubts between Germany and the Netherlands ultimately choose. There are six companies known to me that have finally opted for Germany. They have a variety of reasons for this; reasons for which I can very well imagine something. There are also a lot of companies that choose the Netherlands and have good reasons for doing so. There are things different in Germany, for example the land price. I have asked the Central Planning Bureau, also in response to questions from Mr Van Veen and his group, to examine exactly what is going on there with land prices. There are a number of things we can imagine. In the Netherlands, the basic price for land is high anyway. If an industrial area is created, we have a certain spatial planning process and a certain quality level. This leads to costs that are ultimately charged. Anyway, we will find out exactly and exchange with you. There are also things in Germany that are less attractive to entrepreneurs, for example the electricity price. The electricity price for small businesses, medium-sized enterprises and large companies, just not for the largest companies, the largest industrial users, is lower or even much lower in the Netherlands. It varies on both sides of the border. It's not like we're always doing less on our side of the border or always in the defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'd like to ask you a rather meaningful question. What I meant in my speech is that there are companies in the Netherlands that are experiencing problems when they start to grow, when they need more space or shift into environmental category. Sometimes it takes quite a long time in the Netherlands. We are getting signals that sometimes assistance from EZ is needed to ensure that companies are not lured away to Germany because this aggressive acquisition takes place from the Bundesamt. My question to the Minister is whether it would not be a good idea for EZ's support forces to be deployed in these municipalities at a time when these kinds of movements are at risk because the legislation is too complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u82	If a municipality asks us to assist, we are always prepared to do so. However, it is not so much as Mr Van Veen said that it is a bit easy for EZ to send aid troops to the local authorities to solve all the problems there. It can of course be that a municipality has a specific problem and wants to have support from us to make clear what the benefits are in the Netherlands and what the rules are in the Netherlands, so that an objective picture is provided to the entrepreneur on the basis of which he can decide. We're certainly prepared to do that. That is one of the important tasks we have. Mr Van Veen said that he was faced with a case of a Dutch company that had established itself in Germany. That then complained to him because too few Dutch candidates came to work in Germany. I'm trying to imagine something about that. I think if you take your company to Germany, you want to do your business in Germany. That's what you chose. I think that you pay your taxes there, that you have to abide by the rules and that you will look for your employees there in the first place. I think that if, regardless of whether it is a Dutch or a German company, employment is offered in Germany and a Dutch job seeker is offered to do that work, an adequate response must be given by UWV. If you see what unemployment is all about in that border area, if there is an opportunity to do work in Germany and if UWV does not hand over candidates, as Mr Van Veen says, I am not happy with it. I'm not going over UWV. That's my colleague from Social Affairs. It seems to me, however, very useful that Mr Van Veen's specific case should come to me or my colleague from Social Affairs. Then we're gonna look into that and see if there's anything we can do about it. So that's what I'm available for. Mr Bashir spoke about two regulations and he came to the conclusion that they both should be abolished. Let's see what kind of arrangements we're talking about. The first is the 30% scheme. We have said that it is laid down in a law by the legislator, i.e. by the cabinet and by the parliament, that if we need employees in the Netherlands with a specific expertise that is not or hardly available here, in order to get those workers to the Netherlands, 30% of the income can be paid without tax and that the rest of the tax must be paid. That is simply an arrangement that we have included, which is part of our legislation. If Mr Bashir wants to change that, he must talk about it with the person who deals with this subject, and that is again the Secretary of State for Finance in this case. He has to try to convince him or come up with a proposal himself. I myself believe that this is a useful arrangement. Where we have Dutch employees, I have a great preference for that. If we need employees and we can't get them, I'd like to have one of those arrangements that will help me ensure that those people come to the Netherlands and that we can keep things going here. We have a second scheme, a scheme that deals with people who come from abroad to the Netherlands and who work here for a somewhat lower wage than usual. They do receive a duty-free allowance for what is called 'extraterritorial costs'. Those are not people who have settled in the Netherlands, because in that case they are not covered by that scheme. These are temporary foreign workers, temporary workers. If they work in the Netherlands while they remain located elsewhere, they may receive tax-free compensation for actual extraterritorial costs incurred. That is also an existing arrangement. I can imagine that Mr Bashir has an opinion on this. That can also be a negative view. It will then have to be discussed with the Chamber if it wishes to do so as a whole. I understand that Mr Bashir is already preparing this. I also understand that my colleague from Finance will send a letter to the Chamber on Tuesday in which he will address this issue. Then there may be an exchange of views with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u83	This debate is about border effects. These are also people who cross borders and work in another country. The effects of these arrangements are to create an uneven playing field. The minister of EZ has been appointed by the Crown, but he is also from VVD-huis. The VVD also often talks about a level playing field. How does the Minister of EZ view the lack of a level playing field in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u84	There are different sides to this case. On the one hand, it may be useful for people from abroad to come here to carry out work. If they have demonstrable extraterritorial costs, I think it is reasonable that there should be a duty-free allowance, an expense allowance. On the other hand, this must be carefully weighed if this leads to unfair competition here in the Netherlands. That is why I can well imagine that there will be an exchange of views on the letter to be sent to the Chamber by my colleague from the Treasury for next Tuesday. Then both things will have to be weighed against each other: what are the benefits and the adverse effects, and what conclusion do we want to draw at the moment? At the time, this arrangement was introduced, but it can always be called into question. That seems to be the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u85	It is also striking that EUR 250 million is involved in this scheme. FNV investigates this and then comes out via RTL News, while we are the legislator together. The cabinet is legislator and the chamber co-legislator, but we do not know that. We do not know that 250 million is involved in an arrangement that creates an uneven playing field between Dutch and foreign agency workers. How can we ensure in the future that we ourselves are much better on top of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u86	I don't know if the Chamber could have known that. I do not know exactly how the budgetary items at Finance are drawn up on this point. I do not know whether the Chamber has any other means of obtaining that information, but in general I believe that the Court should have the information it wishes to obtain. This seems to me to be information of interest to the Chamber. The fact that the Chamber asks for a letter on this matter and then wishes to discuss it with the cabinet seems to me appropriate to its task. So I don't have any negative qualifications about that. Mrs. Mulder said she wants a trial to send in B.B. students. That is a concrete proposal, so we will have to look at it. I'm not about B.B. students. I'm sorry. I'm not a minister of everything. That's what my colleague from OCW is about. I cannot help having to refer to my colleagues all the time. My colleague from OCW is about B.B. students. But I think I need to talk to my colleague from OCW about Mrs Mulder's suggestion to see if it is advisable and appropriate to go into that. That's what I'm gonna do, and I'll get back to you on that. Mrs Mulder also talked about abolishing or alleviating controls on people who are going to work in Germany. It is too detailed for me to respond now. I estimate that this is something for my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment and for the SZW inspection. So I will bring this point by Mrs Mulder to the attention of my colleague from SZW and see how he wishes to respond to it. I have answered Mrs Schouten's questions. The last speaker, Mr Groot, gave me the point of comparison between Germany, Belgium and Limburg. I've been able to back that up. With regard to the other points raised by Mr Groot, I have dealt with them in the previous speakers. I hope I have responded properly to what the Chamber has put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u87	I think so. You even managed to avoid a few motions. That raises the question of whether a second deadline is necessary. Mr. Graus and others are nodding yes. Mr Graus has the floor first; like everyone else, he has a third of the time from the first term. With Mr Graus, this means that we make three minutes one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to monitor border effects in the event of policy changes, new legislative proposals and implementing rules,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to have current border issues examined by independent experts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, as a pilot measure, to reduce excise duties to at least 1% below the rates of excise duty of the neighbouring countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32851-10]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32851-11]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32851-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u89	That test is simply intended to show that it may produce even more excise duties. I would also like to say that recent information from BNR has shown that a total of 793 companies have been registered in the border region of Hengelo alone and 86 of them have gone bankrupt. In Enschede, 154 went bankrupt. Let me keep it a little closer to the Minister and not just talk about Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u90	It's appreciated. I'm glad you've developed a broader view of the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u91	Mr. Chairman. My group would like to thank this Minister for his comprehensive answer, because he has a great deal of knowledge of it, although he is not talking about it. The crucial point is that Minister Plasterk has said that there will be a border impact test. That "coming" has already changed into "considering." I don't think we should deal with our border provinces that way. They need clarity. They deserve that, too. That is what the government there deserves; that is what the inhabitants deserve. Once you've made a commitment, you've got to do it. That's how we've all learned to do it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various studies show that national policies often have unintended negative effects on border regions;]] [[noting that the development of new policies does not naturally take into account their impact on border regions;]] [[calls on the government to develop a border impact test and send it to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouw and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32851-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u92	Mr. Chairman. I do not agree with the Minister's answers on the impact of excise duties on border regions. Just look across the border, look at the plates of the cars that are there at any border pump station on any day. The people who are filling up there are mostly Dutch, who want to fill up cheaper across the border. In the first term, I spoke about the border effects relating to the promotion of other workers. In that regard, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the promotion of one employee over another is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government, the covenant between the Tax Administration and the temporary agency sector, so that Dutch workers can no longer compete with foreign colleagues, to cancel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32851-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u93	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. They're about to discuss topics that have just been discussed. In itself, the Minister has reacted positively, but I would like to be sure. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that border regions such as Twente want to take advantage of opportunities on the German labour market to help B.B. students and job seekers to work, and that there is a need for experimental space to enable cross-border work;]] [[Whereas the sending of pupils and job seekers to German employers can be a pragmatic solution to a number of bottlenecks which hamper cross-border work;]] [[Calls on the Government to facilitate an experiment in Twente to clarify the conditions under which posting can successfully contribute to the exploitation of employment opportunities offered by the German labour market, whereby:]] [[clarify legal framework conditions, costs/benefits and risks for employees, apprenticeships/intermediaries and German employers;]] [[tools available to Dutch employers in the placement of pupils and unemployed can be used, such as contributions to the costs of practical learning, labour costs and retraining,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32851-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u94	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for each employee, including one who only works for a few hours in Germany, the employer must make a prior notification and translate the contract of employment and the pay slips into German;]] [[considers that this is excessive for the maintenance of the minimum wage, also because the Dutch minimum wage is higher than the German and is controlled;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with the German Government in order to lighten or abolish these controls for companies established in the Netherlands and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32851-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u95	Mr. Chairman. I'll stick to my letter to the Presidium.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister once again for his commitment to look with the VNG at the need for a border desk or counter to ensure that there is a real speedy solution if there are obstacles in the field of, for example, diploma recognition or employment. I'd like to hear from the Minister what's coming out of it. I also had another question about the importance of regional trade missions, especially for SMEs. Does the Minister see a role for himself in this? That's a bit of a rhetorical question, because we can see that part. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether he can take further steps in the interests of regional employment, including cross-border employment? I thank everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers, although many references have been made to other ministers, other rulers. This raises the question of whether coordination on this type of subject could be put into one hand. Once again, thank you for the answers. However, one question remains, namely the question on the Nijboer/Kerstens motion, which was tabled last year on 11 June 2014. I thought I made that clear. That motion calls for the identification of bottlenecks in frontier work and for solutions to be found. I had asked the Minister about the implementation of this motion. I would like to hear another reaction to that in the second term. I also welcome the commitment made to Mrs Schouten. That intervention desk, as I would call it, is indeed a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u99	I understand the Minister can respond immediately and comment on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. The motion by Mr Graus and Mr Van Vliet to item No. 10 and Mr Schouw and Mrs Mulder's motion on item No. 13 both go over the border effects test. I do not now recommend to the Chamber to draw conclusions on the border impact test. I think it is good in the traffic between the Chamber and the Cabinet that my colleague from BZK can present his work to the Chamber, that he can then discuss it with the Chamber and that conclusions will be drawn only afterwards. Personally, I think this is too early. The Chamber itself, of course, matters what is too early or too late, but I shall decide what I recommend to the Chamber. I advise the motions in part No. 10 and 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u101	I'd like to understand it myself. The Minister says that you should be at Plasterk for a ruling on these motions. At the same time, he betrays them. I thought that the usual procedure in these cases was for the Minister to pass on the request to his colleague Mr Plasterk in this case and for him to send a note with his views on the motions. Will the Minister consider using the usual practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u102	No. I see another usual practice, namely that the cabinet comes up with a reaction and an interpretation when the Chamber raises a point and asks questions to the cabinet. A conclusion is then drawn. I find it strange to draw a conclusion first and then get the work of the cabinet. In my usual course of action, I come to the conclusion that I must discourage these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u103	I don't think this minister is a rookie, a beginner. He must have noticed that the background to the motions is the shaky attitude of the cabinet over the border impact test. Mr Plasterk has been studying for months, but nothing is coming. So the Chamber is trying to put a little pressure on it. Can Minister Kamp give home or calf? Is the cabinet coming up with a border impact test or is it waiting until the end of the day? After all, that's what the motions are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u104	I did not detect a vague attitude in my colleague, Mr Plasterk. I think he is trying to give a good response to an important point raised by the Chamber. I think he'll be doing this soon. I recommend to the Chamber that we come to conclusions and not to draw conclusions now. The motions in part No. 10 and 13, I advise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u105	I really don't understand that at all, because there are already a lot of tests and tests. There is already a lot of evidence that the repair will be more expensive than preventing it. Why shouldn't we measure the effects? What's the problem? I really don't see what the Minister's problem is. He is Minister of Economic Affairs and is on the Council of Ministers. It's about everything when it comes to these kinds of topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u106	I cannot say it more beautiful than I just said when I was questioned by Mr Schouw. My reaction to Mr Graus would be a repeat of what I have already said. That would be disrespectful to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. Mr Graus stated that the government should have current border issues examined by independent experts. That doesn't fit in with the image I have of our government. I believe that our government is an objective, reliable and independent organisation that will ensure that the problems are looked at and what the best solutions are. She then comes up with proposals and policies. It is not necessary, by definition, to bring in independent experts when we consider things important. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u107	Fortunately, I did not question this, but it is also a question of involving independent consultants, or in this case border institutes, in other cases. Those are people who know what to do and who specialize in it. That was the reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u108	Our officials know what to do. They are also able to analyse matters properly and come to conclusions. Then it comes to our drivers. They are then also able to draw good conclusions from this. Of course, external opinions are requested in parts. On occasion, it is also useful to call in an independent expert, but the motion states that the government should have independent experts review the matter on current border issues. I don't think we're doing very well then. The Chamber may ask the Government to ensure that the matter is analysed objectively and that decisions are taken and proposals made. The government is capable and willing to do so. The motion in part No. 11, I advise. On the motion in part No. Mr Graus and I have had discussions before. It says that, by definition, the Netherlands should be 1% below the excise duty rates of the surrounding countries. I don't think we should. Moreover, I do not deal with excise duties, but I do not agree with the substance. I don't see why we should sit under it. Should our groceries in the supermarket be 10% cheaper? Should we also be 1% cheaper with excise duties and move everything from other countries to the Netherlands? Is that a realistic attitude in Europe? I don't see it that way. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u109	Thank you. I would like to say a few words, Mr Graus, because I would like to move on to the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u110	Indeed, I have always asked for 1% to go under. It's possible. Anything's possible. But now I'm asking you to do that as a test. I would like to show the Minister that excise revenue is growing even if it does, and so is the economy and employment, and that no more businesses are falling in border areas. That is my intention: by way of trial, that is very sympathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u111	I gave my advice to the Chamber on this. In their motion in part No. 14 Mr Bashir and Mr Ulenbelt have already concluded that one of the two arrangements we have discussed must be terminated. The motion states that the government must cancel the covenant between the Tax Administration and the broadcasting sector. That could be a conclusion if the House had discussed it in substance with my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment. I would, however, recommend to the House that this be said on that occasion. Mr Bashir and his colleague Ulenbelt could therefore consider holding this motion until after the exchange of views with my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment. If Mr Bashir is not prepared to do so, I would advise against his motion. In the motion in part No. 15 ask Mrs Mulder and Mrs Schouten for an experiment with the posting of BBL students. If the Chamber raises a point and I say that I am taking up that point, that I am going to discuss it with my colleague, that I am going to figure it out, that I think it is a positive suggestion and that I am going to inform the Chamber, and that the Chamber is going to give me a motion, I think there is little point in an exchange of views between the Chamber and me. I don't think that's a good idea. I made my commitment in substance, so I think this motion is superfluous. Because of that unnecessaryness, I'd advise against her. The motion Agnes Mulder/Omtzigt in part No. 16 is about the control of workers who do not work very much in Germany but for whom things have to be demonstrated and who can then be checked. The proposers have already come to the conclusion that these controls should be lighter or perhaps even abolished. As I said, I think it would be a good idea to start by looking at exactly what this is about. I will discuss this with my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment. We're going to inform the Chamber about that. Then we can draw a conclusion on that. That conclusion might be what this motion says, but that conclusion should then be drawn after that debate. My recommendation to Mrs Mulder is therefore: hold this motion. In case Mrs. Mulder doesn't want to do that, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-04-tweedekamer-9.u112	Next Tuesday we will vote on the seven motions, unless a number of others are retained.
