ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. Next month it will be 25 years since East and West Germany were reunited. That happened on October 3, 1990, to be exact. It was a time of hope. The Cold War was a thing of the past. A new world order arose, without great powers holding each other in a nuclear stranglehold and without dictatorship in Europe. A quarter of a century later, barbaric wars raging at the European external borders, in Syria, Libya and Iraq. But also in eastern Ukraine. Russia has become a dangerous neighbor to a friend. It is tempting to see all these threats primarily as threats from outside, by others, who want to attack our western values. But there's more to it than that. The CDA analyses a deeper problem in our society. Our society is subject to erosion from within. The values and standards based on the Jewish-Christian tradition are no longer self-evident. What do these values teach us? They teach us that a strong society is built on mutual obligations. The peace, security and human rights that mark this part of the world are not coincidental circumstances. They're something to cherish. Culture and identity are a social-historical fact and not an expression of casual individual freedom of choice. Yet modern Western society is mainly built on individual rights. To meet all individual rights, a large bureaucratic government has been created. Instead of a large government, there will have to be a strong society again, in which everyone has a task and in which what you receive from the government as an individual does not prevail, but what you contribute to society. A society in which the right to do good for yourself does not prevail, but the duty to do good for the collective and in which the importance of the future of our children goes beyond our own interests here and now. Our continent with its centuries-old culture and traditions is overwhelmed by the events around us. Meanwhile, citizens see European politicians who are unable to answer the big questions of our time. The issue of refugees is growing over Europe at the moment. I must say that not only Europe, but also this cabinet. There is a deal, the French and German Justice Ministers welcomed last Monday. There is no deal, said Secretary of State Dijkhoff. There is a deal, however, the entire VVD plan is being implemented by Europe, claimed Halbe Zijlstra. There is no deal, a Eurotop is needed, noted Angela Merkel. A Euro Summit made no sense, then Prime Minister Rutte felt. Fortunately, there will be a European summit next week, our Finance Minister said today about Merkel's announcement. From all this talk, there is only one thing that emerges: nothing happens, because Europe is divided and the cabinet parties in the Netherlands really only worry about their own profile. Where PvdA leader Samsom concluded in the debate last week that there would be less reception in the region. We could see it all afterwards................................................................................................................................................... Can the Prime Minister indicate what he thinks was and was not agreed in Brussels? What does he see as the role of the Netherlands in this Brussels battlefield? As a rule of law and as a Europe, the CDA has a moral responsibility to deal with displaced persons, but society is now under irresponsible pressure. We will have to move towards more temporary reception of displaced persons, and we will not escape to tackle the major problems at source as well. Therefore, the CDA continues to press for participation in the military coalition that is taking action in Syria. And the Western community must be prepared, if necessary, to act on the ground, at least to create safe areas. The reception of all these refugees in the Netherlands is an extremely costly matter. That's inevitable. EUR 650 million will be allocated extra in 2015. A question to the government when dealing with this budget: what exactly is reserved for 2016 and which budgets are responsible for that? What if more financial resources are needed again, because the estimates are too low?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u2	I appreciate that the CDA, like other parties, is looking for a way to control that humanitarian disaster in Syria from the West. Exploring bombings, the Minister is very careful and careful; okay, maybe then. But I think the CDA is a bit fluent in its ideas about creating safe zones. I think about Kabul and Baghdad every time, where a green district is being tried. That's just a neighborhood! Keep it safe for diplomats and ministries. First of all, those zones attract suicide bombers. After all, you are sure that there are Westerners there, with every chance of kidnapping and suffering. Secondly, if you want to seriously secure refugees in an area, you're talking about hundreds of thousands. I cannot imagine that, or the CDA should say: at least thousands of soldiers will have to go there. In Afghanistan we were, I believe, 2,500 at the peak. Then the Netherlands will have to do something like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u3	Let me say first of all that the CDA is very well aware that it requires a great deal of effort in any case, whether it is about creating safe zones or addressing the problem at source in a broader way. That's not an easy story, that's a difficult story. If we want to prevent these refugees from coming here, we will have to work there. Examples of previous actions are few. Northern Iraq is an example. I do not mention the example Srebrenica mentioned above, because I am concerned with areas that need to be safe, and really well-protected, by military means indeed. That's for the long run. It's necessary. I think it is too easy for Europe and a large part of this Chamber to think that we can look away from the source of the problem. That won't work in the long run. In Belgium, too, this debate is now taking place and I feel that it is going to come in other countries. France, for example, is already participating in the air actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u4	I don't think it's too easy thought by others. I think it's just from discomfort, seen from our world here, that we think: then we'll sort it out there. I think we were in Kabul together. It's a neighborhood of nothing where those ministries and those embassies are from the West. The walls are huge, the checkpoints are huge, and yet every now and then there are people running around with kalashnikovs shooting through the hotel, and that while it is only one neighborhood! How can you move that to the Middle East? I hope the CDA has thought about this to an entire province or to an area where you're going to catch 500,000 people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u5	First of all, of course, this requires a military operation. That's what I've said before. Secondly, there is an example where it succeeded, namely northern Iraq. Thirdly, the CDA has of course not gone ice over one night. For example, it endorsed a resolution tabled by the European Parliament, which was co-tabled by Mr Van Balen, Mrs Schaake, and I even believe the representative of GroenLinks. They all said: safe areas in Syria if necessary. So it's not like I'm making something new up, I've joined up with previous calls from politics. I repeat the appeal, because I say one thing: if we do not tackle the problem at source, the refugee problem will continue to exist forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u6	It is always commendable to try to create safe areas in a country. In Iraq, at the time of Hussein, this was achieved for the Kurds with the no-fly zone. What area does Mr Buma see in Syria? Where is, in fact, a stable situation? Where is a population group that is in control? Is that Assad's area? Do you want to do it there? Are we gonna drive Assad out of there? Are we gonna drive Al-Nusra out of a piece of territory, or are we gonna do it with ISIS? Are we gonna do it with the Kurds? Where do you want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u7	Are we gonna evict ISIS somewhere? ISIS must be driven out, not out of a piece. The more the merrier. The same applies to Al-Nusra. I realize and you realize how complicated that is. The question of whether I am deeply prepared to accept measures to get rid of ISIS, no matter how many kilometres it takes, is "yes'. Also note my introduction, because it is not separate from this. Our society is threatened if we allow that great belt of chaos to continue at the borders of Europe. Europe cannot accept that in the future. We're really talking about our safe society for decades to come. Yeah, the CDA is willing to pay that price if they have to. I make the appeal here in Parliament: realize that this is the reality we need to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u8	At least that awareness is sufficient at the VVD. At the beginning of this year I also wrote a whole article on what to do next. I'm trying to understand what the CDA proposal is. At the VVD we will always be willing to take responsibility if we can provide people with safety. I still have no idea of involvement in a ground war. After all, you specifically referred to ground forces. In which part of Syria exactly should that happen? It's a continuously shifting patch blanket. I very much agree with you that we must fight against ISIS and if it can expel it. But what comes in return, what do we do with Assad, with Al-Nusra and other groups? I would like that image of the CDA to be able to assess how realistic your solution is. I want to think about every solution, but I need to know what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr Zijlstra is starting on the wrong side. He turns me into the general who tells me where to attack the armies. I am convinced that it is our task to answer the question whether, as Europeans, we, as Europeans, are, therefore, as much larger than this Chamber, deeply accepting that at our gates there are such chaotic areas. My point is that we cannot accept that in the long term. America would never accept that. Here too, Europe as a region is not strategically strong enough. There must be cooperation on defence and the like. It also includes the fact that we are aware that we cannot accept that this kind of chaos continues, whether in Syria or Libya, because of threats, terror, extravagants and the fact that we cannot cope with the flow of refugees. What part of the country? That is not something the politician here in this room should talk about. After we've decided we're not gonna accept it, we need to be prepared to put the military in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u10	I am glad to hear that the CDA actually fully agrees with what the VVD wrote earlier this year. That's good. It is not unwillingness, I am trying to find out to what extent such a situation can be created, so whether the CDA's plan has a sense of reality at this point. As a politician, we do not say: attack there. However, we cannot say to the military: you have a country here, create a safe zone somewhere. I can actually hear you say that. Let me give you the example of the Kurds in northern Iraq. That was a stable area. The Kurds were threatened by Hussein. A no-fly zone allowed the Kurds to keep controlling the area. Actually, that's what we're doing now. Then what are you doing in Syria? There is not such an area, there is no population group that controls a particular province. It shifts all the time. Then where are we gonna do it? That the generals have to fill out the details, I agree with you, but where does the CDA want to do it? Then I can judge if it's something we can find or if it's a balloon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u11	I keep saying that I think that's a very unwise question. We have to start with the question of whether we really think it can stay that way. If we do not believe that this is the case, we must first seek allies in order to be able to act there with other European partners and, preferably, with the Americans. We can all say "no, we don't want those steps, because we want to know where on the map first," but that answer cannot be given by a politician. A politician must answer the question whether this part of the world thinks there can be an environment that is so unsafe and that threatens us. My answer to that is no. The answer to this is a very large, difficult, longer-term military operation. I believe that Mr Zijlstra has a point there. If we all close our eyes and don't do anything, the cabinet won't even be able to get the four F-16s we have there to throw bombs at IS, which threatens us, then we shouldn't be surprised to see IS getting bigger and bigger and threatening us more and more. It's too big a problem. Europe must never think about it so easily. I keep saying the Americans would never have accepted it. This is because Europe as a whole is not strategically strong. We really have a responsibility here for the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u12	One thing, though. The whole misery in Syria is partly due to the fact that Obama drew a red line and then did not maintain it. So Mr Buma should not call the Americans now, because they do not have a very good history on this dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u13	That's a whole different story. This is about the fact that the Americans have far less interest in intervention in Syria than they had in other countries. That's a problem for us. The ball is therefore placed with us Europeans. Again, we can talk about who joins who's plan, but that's not what I'm talking about at all. I am concerned that it is between our European ears that there is a chaos there that cannot remain that way. If we all say "too far," "too scary," "too hard" and "those stupid Americans," it stays that way. Then the flow of refugees continues to increase, the chaos is spreading from the Middle East to North Africa and we are dealing with it for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u14	I too believe that Europe cannot remain that way. I think everyone agrees on that. I will not ask Mr Buma a military question about the precise region, because he is indeed not a general but a politician. But I understand the question. That is because the CDA and Mr Buma are constantly attacking it, at least in recent weeks, from a military strategy, the military branch of this solution. I get that. You're naive when you think there's no military component, but it's one of the components. Should we not, instead of just calling for the military strategy, continue to discuss the political strategy and perhaps also the economic and financial strategy needed to counter this injustice, the chaos in Europe's belt?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u15	In fact, I am much closer there than you might think, because yes, there is also a political need to be done. The Secretary of State is closest to me. I see him standing on the side. But to start fighting IS with discussions, I don't like that. It's an evil, it's threatening us and it has to go away. I understand how difficult it is and how profound the discussions are. I do not accept, however, that we in the Netherlands think that with something like 'borders close' we did not have to look any further before lunch there and that the problem would disappear. Our Western society and the values we have built are not self-evident. They need to be defended. I'm suggesting that the risk will only increase if we don't. If we do, we can also show the world that, with our diplomacy, our human rights and our sustainable society, we really are a strong community of values. If we don't, they'll laugh at us and we'll only have more terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u16	I believe that we are largely in agreement with each other, but unfortunately we do not yet have a solution. We should agree to keep looking at military options. I believe that a motion also came along on that last time, but honestly, the Labour Party thought that was just too narrow. We need to look at the whole solution. I am the last to say that there are no soldiers involved, but I think we should agree that it cannot be just military. We must therefore also develop a political strategy. It is not a discussion with ISIS, but a discussion from Europe with the large blocs of China, Russia and America, to jointly agree on how we in Syria are going to plan for the future. That's where we need it from. A military component could be part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u17	What Mr Samsom says is very true. It's absolutely both. I'm not gonna pretend to want anything else, either, but there's only one thing about it: given the chaos, we can't keep talking endlessly to the whole world. Europe must be a force. Again, there's hardly any. We can't blame anyone for that, because that power is just not there. But we, as Europe, will have to have the will to act in the end. If Europe says that, then the world will look different too, because then they know that they can't hurt us and then IS knows that he isn't the victor in the end. For really, IS cannot be the victor in Syria and the Middle East, because that will continue to threaten us in the coming decades. Mr. Chairman. I turn from the all-controlling crisis in the Middle East to the financial crisis and the debt crisis, which has called for our attention. In fact, the acute crisis of the refugee problem has pushed attention to the debt crisis somewhat into the background. Our country and our part of the world are showing economic growth again. We haven't seen that in a while. But we have to acknowledge that the uncertainty remains. We almost forgot, but in less than a week we will have elections again, in Greece. Once again, Europe is holding its breath, as has so often been the case over the past year. Another warning: the economic crisis in Europe is, to a very large extent, cosmetic. Every month, the European Central Bank pumps EUR 60 billion into the European economy. In the meantime, it amounts to EUR 360 billion. That started out as an emergency measure and it would be done in exchange for tough reforms, but those reforms have never been heard from again. The cabinet is not about the European Central Bank, but my question to the Prime Minister is what reforms he has seen in Italy and France, in particular, the countries concerned? How does he judge that? In the meantime, the euro has lost a great deal of its value. Thanks to low interest rates, the southern countries are borrowing back on nicely. For the long term, this will inevitably weaken our currency. The euro becomes a franc and if we do not pay attention, the franc becomes a lira. There's no free money. This policy of the ECB is good for southern, price-competitive devaluation economies, but bad for the Dutch innovation economy. Think of our imports, too. Today we also saw that defence expenditure needs to be adjusted by half a billion, just because of this currency problem. The euro is ultimately weakened not only by Prime Minister Tsipras in Athens, but also by President Draghi in Frankfurt. Once again, this is not something that I say to the Cabinet that it must change tomorrow, since it concerns the ECB, but I ask the Prime Minister how he looks at these developments and how he looks at it that may continue to run every month after September 2016. Against these uncertain backgrounds, the cabinet presents the 2016 budget. It is a budget with fortunately good news as well. The export attracts. Part of it's cosmetic, but it happens. The housing market is coming up. The economy is growing again, something we haven't seen in a long time. But as Frits Wester said at his press conference last Friday, we have to stay sober. Around the turn of the century economic optimism led to a rapid increase in wages and expenditure. The Netherlands praised itself very quickly from the market. Purple II went into the ship at the time, with the result that shortly afterwards there had to be drastic cuts again. Economic growth seemed strong, but turned out to be a bubble. That mistake must not be repeated now, because growth is too uncertain and, above all, unemployment is still too high. Therefore, as far as the CDA is concerned, work above income and relief over expenditure increases. The latter, a reduction over expenditure increase, is the reason why the CDA supports the choice of the cabinet for a reduction of EUR 5 billion. A robust recovery in the economy requires lower taxes for middle-income families and SMEs. In recent years, taxes have been increased by the cabinet over and over again for precisely those groups. The CDA has been advocating tax cuts for this backbone of society all these years. However, I should like to warn you that if there are any changes to the plan that are detrimental to middle income and to SMEs, then the cabinet is at risk of losing that support again. I see that there may be a question like that. I would like to say that, within the framework of that 5 billion package, there is another aspect on which I have another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u18	First, Mr Van der Staaij has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u19	I hear Mr Buma say that we can support a lot of the 5 billion plan, but if it changes a lot, it cannot get our support anymore. On behalf of the SGP Group, I still have a question, a wish, about the position of single-earner families. We think that they are still getting out of it in comparison with two-earner families. My question is this. I heard a while ago from Mr Heerma of the CDA that over time he too saw distorted growth in that ratio. Is that such a point that the CDA would like to see whether the plans can be adjusted accordingly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u20	I think that is a very real point in itself from Mr Van der Staaij. Family policy remains one of the priorities. Think about middle-income people, too. In itself, the CDA looks a lot different to two-earners than to one-earners. I would have a problem at home if I were to deal with too many of the two-earners here right now. The CDA therefore considers this priority of Mr Van der Staaij to be important, but it is very clear that it is not one that was in our own wish list for the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u21	If we make it personal, here's what I'm gonna say. My wife is very much for freedom of choice. She likes it when policy doesn't force one direction, but you can decide with each other, at family level, whether you're doing one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u22	Doesn't the CDA agree that, as the WRR pointed out, it is too much individualized at this point and that you need to look more at what a household income is reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u23	I find it difficult to disappoint Mr Van der Staaij, but I find it even more difficult to disappoint Mr Van der Staaij's wife. We're gonna open it up. Again, in general, the plan is consistent with what the CDA has been saying for years. So I'm not gonna say things are gonna be different now. However, if Mr Van der Staaij wishes to propose improvements, we can see the amendments coming and we can see in an orderly manner whether we will support them or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u25	The plans presented for the summer included a measure that provides more jobs: the so-called low-income advantage (liv). In the final budget, this measure was exchanged by the Cabinet for a one-off purchasing power measure, namely the increase in the rent and care allowance. My group has questions about this. Isn't that what makes you choose income instead of jobs? Why is this done? Is it not wiser to go back to the original plan and use the 500 million directly to create a tax cut in favour of jobs? I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr Pechtold made use of the silence that now falls.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u27	I was quiet especially because it said "18.45." Then I thought, "Is it that late?" But this is still coming; it is my speaking time that I still owe you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u28	With this preliminary announcement I now give the floor to Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr Buma just said to me in the break: "If I grab my glass of water, would you mind interrupting me for a moment? Then I can get back on my feet." I was a little surprised just before the summer recess that the CDA said: we agree with the 5 billion. I hadn't seen any of the plans back then. In the meantime, the plans are there and I find it disappointing that so few jobs are created. Mr Buma has just made a point of this. But at the moment, I would also like to express my surprise at the fact that last year the CDA voted against cabinet plans for around 4 billion and does not attempt to fix any of them. I would like to drop a word that Mr Buma from his campaign is going to sound familiar, namely the 'accines'. I can hardly hear that word anymore, but the CDA was going to fix for a $300 million. Is that gonna happen or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr Pechtold's first question is why the CDA is now in favour of it, while it was against it in the past. I can turn this around, too. Mr Pechtold has supported two or three major increases in the budget. He didn't know how to get up front in that little room at Treasury. Those budgets were bad for the economy and bad for jobs. Then the CDA said that you shouldn't, you should lower taxes, especially for middle incomes. Now taxes are being reduced, especially on middle incomes, and who is angry? Mr. Pechtold. Well, who's happy? Mr. Buma!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yes, and Mr Buma is actually taking over responsibility for the past few years at once. It is, of course, a choice to say: we were against the Wmo, we were against study funding and we were against excise duties. The CDA was against a whole list of subjects: chronically ill, child benefit and so on. I have a question to which I would like an answer. The number of jobs is disappointing. That's a reason for me to doubt the 5 billion. I'm not saying I'm against it yet, but I doubt it. I also note that the tambouring of excise duties took place in connection with the provincial elections and that we are not hearing any more about it now. Mr Buma does not even take the word "taxes" in his answer anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u32	No, Mr President, Mr Pechtold had asked me two questions and I was only at the time of answering the first. Mr Pechtold now adds a new question on the measures introduced. Yes, that's your list, Mr. Pechtold, and we were against it. But these measures have been introduced by you. It would have been better if that hadn't happened. We now want to fix what we can fix, because we understand that you can't reverse all of that one-two-three. We will therefore propose amendments to budgets in a number of areas. You will. We have already mentioned the reversal of all these measures. For example, the treatment of the Wlz took place after the treatment of the Wmo; after the Social Support Act, the Long-Term Care Act was treated. We supported that second law, because we already realized that the Social Support Act was being changed. At the time, we could pretend that the world remained the same, but we didn't. Now I come back to excise duties. That is indeed a serious point. Mr Pechtold always pretends that this is not the case, but in the border region that is very important. That is why we will be putting forward proposals on this subject again this year, but they can simply be regulated within tax revenues. This country still has hundreds of billions of tax revenue, and we will put it there. If your question is, why not present it now, I would almost say 'wait for our actions', if it were not ever said by a liberal. However, wait for our actions in the tax plans, because then we will come up with alternatives, including for excise duties. Your excise duty will also be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u33	Oh, great, I'll drive to the border especially for it. With this, the image is clear again. Because Mr Buma was just trying to get the laughers on his hand, but the CDA has been moving away for two years. At that time the CDA voted against, covered nothing and campaigned with excise duties and so on. Now that we have a plan, the CDA says: we will be submitting repair proposals, but it doesn't really matter whether they are adopted or not, because this was just as convenient for us in the provincial elections, but now it doesn't play that way anymore. It's okay. I would have liked to work with the CDA on more jobs. Mr Buma also mentioned this point. Because of the past, I would also have liked the CDA to have been involved and not every time it suggested that it was against all those care plans, against study funding and all the other things it now accepts. Anyway, better late than never.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u34	No, this is just another one too easy. Easy, but it can also be too easy at some point. We voted against cases that we considered irresponsible. Think about the Wmo and the big problems in home care. I can therefore tell you that we still support our vote against. Actually, it's been introduced. What we want to do is to ease the pain and at least to improve it. We wanted to do more than you did, but you did not support that. That's your choice, but this would be our choice. We can also see that the Wmo will not be reversed as of 1 January 2016. That's a fact. I shall come back to what we are doing later, because I still have 18 minutes and 36 seconds of speaking time. The labour market is not functioning sufficiently, there are too few jobs and therefore more ambition is needed. I am still saying that I can only endorse a 5 billion reduction in charges. And the more Mr Pechtold says "against," the funnier I think it is, because for years he accused me of being against everything. We're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u35	Now forward, you'd almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u36	Well, no, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr Buma shared the 5 billion reduction line. Several parties presented a counter-budget this morning. I notice that many of these parties are making proposals for greening taxes. To add to the famous seventeen seats in the First Chamber: is Mr Buma also willing to green up the tax? I am thinking of the coal tax, the Maut for heavy goods vehicles, the energy tax or the levy on the discharge of residual heat. Take your pick! Is that why he's here? Can we work together in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u38	There are two things: sustainability and the measures proposed. Sustainability is extremely important and the cabinet is working on it. There may be an incredible division between us, but steps are being taken. However, if Mr Klaver asks me whether I am in favour of increasing coal taxes in the short term, I would point out that we have concluded an energy agreement. All this includes pluses and minuses for different sectors. It says that the coal tax will not go up, or rather that it will go down. Then you'll stick to that deal, won't you? Why do we have all these coal plants? Why have they been opened recently? I remember the cabinet with the Labour Party and that it absolutely did not want a nuclear power plant. So you get a coal power plant. At that time, the CDAs in the cabinet had indeed foreseen that these things would be opened. That's what's happened now. If at that time a nuclear power station had been chosen, this whole discussion would not have taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u39	I leave it to Mr Samsom to deal with this. The point is, of course, that although there is an energy agreement, we see that the objectives are not being met. If you don't achieve the goals, you'll still have to take additional steps. I mentioned the coal tax, but there are many other greening measures. It is important to see how we can reach a majority in favour of proposals from the cabinet. Is Mr Buma prepared to consider greening measures in the short term, including for 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u40	In greening we believe much more in the power of innovation so that the market is able to obtain that greening. Sustainability in people's homes, solar panels, all that stuff I really like. The counter-budget of GroenLinks and the other counter-budgets now propose a coal tax, which is also the energy tax for large consumers. Will Mr Klaver explain this to the people of Aldel we just saved? What was the problem in East Groningen? The energy price was too high. What have we all done, not least Mr Klaver? We helped these people, but now he says: the company is actually bad for the environment. The same applies to the Hoogovens. That's where 10,000 people work, and we're not gonna make them unemployed. We want to encourage Hoogovens to operate more sustainably, but not with a tax measure. So no, not those crazy measures that just hurt everyone, and yes, meaningfully targeted environmental measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u41	Against my better judgment, I'll make one more attempt. Let us be clear: Aldel went bankrupt because of the low aluminum price. That's a whole different story. Let me come up with something positive. Mr Buma says that he believes in innovation, and in society, I am pinking away a tear and that people should be able to place solar panels on their roofs. If we now propose that it should be possible for collectives not to pay an energy tax on the energy they generate, can this be supported?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u42	I find that very interesting, but then I have to see how this is worked out. I didn't get ready for this. Again, please be careful that you do something good on the one hand that has bad consequences on the other. I'd really like to keep an eye on that. I can say from my own experience that when you purchase a solar panel you will get the VAT back. So there are already favourable arrangements, but you have to be willing to invest. Things like solar power work. When I look at the tidal power stations we want, I see that there are real possibilities. Mr Samsom, who knows a lot more about energy than we all know about it, has spoken about it before. I am simply warning against thinking that the short-term means of raising taxes is good for the environment. It is bad for the jobs. And when Hoogovens closes here, it opens again in India, and ten times as dirty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u43	What you said just now, Mr Samsom, likes very much. I count my blessings when it comes to salading collectives. Let's see if we can work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u44	I come straight to the next subject, but it is still about the government's tax measures: the position of the elderly. Is the Cabinet aware of the effects of abolishing the elderly allowance on the rent allowance? This creates unintended negative consequences for a very large group of older people. And there is more: in the middle of the summer, the Dutch Bank imposed even stricter rules on pension funds, and strangely more stringent than those for insurers. The last thing the CDA doesn't understand. Requirements, yes, but no higher demands on pension funds than on insurers. The result is that these funds will have to hold tens of billions of additional capital and that pensions will be even more under pressure. This development has been helped by the established financial review framework. There has been a whole staircase, and that is unfavorable. Is the cabinet prepared to take action and eliminate that difference between insurers and pension funds? Now the jobs. It is not enough for more jobs to be created on a structural basis. I come now to a point where the cabinet really doesn't want to see it done. Our labour market is not ready for the future. The persistently high level of unemployment is a symptom of this. The CDA asks the cabinet to move in an ambitious direction and proposes the following. First of all, the abolition of pay-as-you-go payments in the second year in SMEs. That's been mentioned earlier these days. I think that's what everyone is for, because everyone realizes that this costs jobs. When can we finally expect an initiative from the government for this? Under the Participation Act, it should be possible for municipalities to give pay dispensation. This is a cheaper instrument than what we have now, and it also works better than wage costs subsidies. In short, change that. Now for Minister Asscher's job plans. 600 million should have been spent, but actually the adage "money-seeking plan" seems to apply. The money is there, but all these sector plans still have to be made. There's just 182 million euros left on the shelf. The CDA believes that you can use that money more wisely than you can use it for job plans. Now a very important point. I think that the whole Chamber would have expected that the budget documents would also bring the IBO study into the Chamber forzzp'ers, the interdepartmental investigation. How do we deal with employee insurance, how do we deal with their pensions? There's nothing. Why isn't there? Did something go wrong? When is it finally coming? When can we discuss the future of the labour market with this cabinet? For example, AWVN, the employers' working conditions organisation, talks about a future of "workers" instead of employers, employees andzzp'ers. There really are future ideas, but at some point the cabinet must dare to present something to the Chamber. When can we see that? Another point in the labour market: the Work and Security Act needs to be repaired. The rule that people can now only get a temporary contract for two instead of three years will ultimately result in fewer jobs, not more security. Moreover, it is time to give more scope for multi-annual contracts. This also applies: a few years of security is better than a few years of unemployment. Finally, I come to the legal quota for disabled workers. As it gets closer, it becomes more and more clear what a bureaucratic monstrum that is. It's not gonna make it to the target either. It is an old-fashioned form of state thinking that will sink into a bureaucratic swamp. The CDA says stop that legal quota. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister on these proposals. The CDA is aware of this because the labour market of the future is not only about job plans and taxes, but also very much about the organisation of a labour market in which flex and undoubtedly are much better coordinated. We've been talking about it for a long time, and the only one who comes up with nothing is the Cabinet. In the case of more jobs, moderate wage developments are also of great importance. The cabinet deserves a compliment. This also applies to the CNV and the other unions. I congratulate the collective agreement concluded in the public sector. These parties have realised that fair but moderate wage developments contribute to peace, security and stability in the labour market. I'll ask the cabinet if this is it. The agreements have been made, the agreements are fair and the agreements are future-proof. As I said, I am asking the cabinet if this is it. More money, even more money, as the FNV calls loudly, is not responsible for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u45	I have a question for you to clarify. There is no counter-budget from which I can see what the CDA wants to shift. As I understand it, this is only the turn of the exceptional budgets. I'm gonna get the police out of there in a very specific way. There's a lot going on there. Do you think the cabinet's offer to the police is sufficient? Are you satisfied with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u46	There are very serious problems with the police, but we must not confuse working conditions and financial conditions. The CDA is indeed not for more raises. Don't forget, police capacity suffers when more money goes into wages. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is important that the police are finally supported when it comes to the high level of insecurity. Think of the way policemen are dealt with who have to use the firearm and then treated as if they were criminals. A lot of things have to change. Think also of the reorganisation that continues to create uncertainty. So I see all kinds of factors within the police that contribute to great uncertainty and not contribute to the respect we must have for the police. We have to do something about that. I'm really reluctant to give one sector more salary. People in care, teachers and firefighters are just as nice to me and I also say to them that it is about their work becoming proud again and that they can do that work properly, safely and with respect. I can only say that I believe that the conditions of employment in the state sector are justified. I wouldn't consider more wage increases to be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u47	That's clear language in the direction of the police. In fact, you say do it with what the cabinet offers you. You can also look at the people who work for the Defense Department with a slanted eye. For years, you've been on the zero line. We know that. So these people are very lagging behind in terms of wage developments in the market, as we call it. We also know that the work they do is not easy. There's a lot of danger. That too should have a price. You might want to see that in these people's salaries. So you say, if I understand you correctly, that the Cabinet is doing enough and that the CDA doesn't want any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr Slob is now portraying himself as the "man of wages up." It's very expensive to raise wages. This year, I believe, the agreement concluded for the Empire amounts to more than 400 million. That goes up to over a billion dollars. So I am talking about more than 1 billion for employment conditions in the state sector. And then we'd have to say, "Oh, boy, what's that little?" Of course, spread out about everyone isn't much, but even 2 billion is still little for everyone. So I really guarantee that we will ensure moderate wage developments, also in order to prevent the government from firing everyone because there is no more money, as happened around the year 2000 and to which I referred earlier. The CDA wants jobs, the CDA wants security, and my group also wants more respect for the agent, the nurse and the doctor. We can do much more about that, really much more than is happening now. That's where we need to keep each other sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u49	Pay increase is not a goal in itself. The Christian Union has made a very conscious choice in this respect in recent years. My group was also in favour of maintaining the zero line. We have said, however, that at some point it must be over and space must be created. That moment is now upon us. The police play an important role in our security. That is why we want to look very closely at the increases proposed by the cabinet. Are they fair to what the police do, or are there not all kinds of cigars in their own box, for example in the treatment of pensions? Our conclusion is that there is still room for improvement, and we have also indicated the coverage of this in our counter-budget. Your conclusion is "fine" and that's your right to know that it's enough. It's pretty clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u50	If you're talking about the police, you need to talk about the other sectors, too. If you take out a sector, you have to realize that in other sectors there is also very heavy work. Think of the Defense Department, where the problem of the Law on Uniformization of Wage Concepts has still not been solved. There's a big hole there, too. There are really enough working conditions issues in which we as a Chamber also have a responsibility. In general, therefore, I believe that the Court's unions should be given the signal that moderate wage increases contribute to the greatest possible degree of security and jobs and to a government that can do its job properly. To this end, I consider the agreements made to be very fair. I'll get back to the taxes. In the area of capital taxes, the cabinet has surprised us with a very complicated proposal. Tax advisors are already trying to figure out boxhopping. That cannot be the intention of a tax system. We also feel that the lugging away of large assets abroad is going to happen again. This has been happening in France recently. You're damn right we're not getting another penny of the big powers. The people who own that money are going to pay even less taxes and then abroad. And then I'm not talking about the execution, with the different tables coming up. Of course, it is going to cause serious problems and we already have a tax administration that is barely up to it. We are therefore afraid that in the end this whole operation will produce less than what we have now. If the proceeds get lower and the system gets more complicated, I'm gonna call on the Cabinet to rethink before you introduce something as crazy as this. In any case, we ask the Cabinet to present these proposals separately and not to combine them with the EUR 5 billion, because the EUR 5 billion is a separate package. This requires a separate discussion. Then I come to a number of proposals for change from the past few years of the cabinet, which now have their disturbing consequences in society. These are problems of implementation and unrest in society caused by, for example, changes in care. This Millions note is the last for a full financial year of this cabinet. The Hague ink of many of the cabinet plans is now somewhat dry, but many sectors are now running out of water. Many Dutch people experience daily the consequences of the many changes that this cabinet, often under high pressure, has spread over the Netherlands. These changes give rise not only to concern in general, but also to stress and uncertainty among individuals, the chronically ill, the disabled and the elderly. I mention, for example, the Wmo, the Social Support Act. It seems to be introduced but the transition year ends on 1 January 2016. Many people, many thousands, are still uncertain at the moment about what care and what support they will receive after 1 January after all the changes this year. Have all the necessary re-indications been carefully carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u51	I will come back to what Mr Buma said earlier. It had to get through to me. He said that the new design of the capital efficiency levy should be removed from the 5 billion package and dealt with separately. What exactly does he mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u52	That is a fair question, because it is, of course, a rather procedural point I made on that point. The CDA tends to accord the 5 billion gross modes. We do have great doubts about this complicated, jumpy new way of generating capital. If there were to be a package that you could only say yes or no to in the end, it would be very difficult, while the CDA tends to support the cabinet where it can. If you take it to the Chamber separately, I do not want to say 'we vote against' or anything like that, because I think we should deal with it in order, but I would point out that our hesitations about that capital plan are very large and that our positive feelings about that 5 billion package are also very large. I ask the Cabinet to deal with this in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u53	I would like to thank Mr Buma for his somewhat more political impression. If I hear it correctly, he actually says that if it remains a single package and if the change in the capital tax remains in the package, then the chance that the CDA will give its support to the five billion package will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u54	In total, that happens. I do not want to give the impression that I am waiting for a vote against or something like that, because I hope that is not necessary, because there are just a lot of good things in the package. I warn, however, that if we support the five-billion package and get a free system that we do not believe in at all, because we do not think it will work, it will, of course, be much more difficult. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna pick up where I left off. Of course, that always makes the most sense. I was talking about the changes made by the cabinet and the implementation problems that often give rise to this. I mentioned the Wmo and I come to the pgbs, because the payout of it has come to nothing less than a tragedy. The question before us now is: what is the most realistic estimate of the total damage that the head-on import has ultimately resulted in, both for the pgb holders and for the workers in care? I would like a response from the Prime Minister on these points. There's uncertainty with the Groningen. The cabinet has returned to winning up to 30 billion m of gas on an annual basis for 2015. When reading the budget, however, it seems that the CDA can hardly believe it, or for 2016 gas extraction will rise again to 33 billion m. I thought the gas extraction was going down, not up again. What exactly is this about? Can the cabinet motivate this, not only in front of the Chamber, but also in front of the Groningen? They have been told that the extraction of gas would be reduced. Let us also look at the problems in agriculture, not only in Groningen, but throughout the Netherlands. There are problems with pig farmers and problems with dairy farmers; they are very difficult at the moment. In other sectors of agriculture and horticulture, too, the current situation is simply difficult. According to the CDA, the cabinet has insufficient regard for the strategic role of the agricultural sector. The debate is not only about nature and animal welfare, but also about the strategic question of whether we in this part of the world will still be able to feed our own people in ten or twenty years' time. In order to be able to play this strategic role, the sector needs to be helped through difficult times. I would like to receive a response from the cabinet. In October, the Research Council for Security will present its report on the MH17 disaster. In that month, we will see foreign nationals return to the country. The crisis, the war in Eastern Ukraine, will come very close again. Can the cabinet tell us before then whether there is agreement on the strategy of persecution that will be followed, so that we do not have to start again after the report has been published? I come to international security and defence. Russia is building an ever-increasing arsenal of weapons. Since the Russian invasion of Crimea, we know that the country is a formidable opponent. That is why we have already discussed the crisis at our southern border and south-east border. For the coming year, the cabinet has eased the cuts in defence, but the armed forces still have to reduce and the army still has to ring the alarm, for example for the reserveists. There is a broad responsibility in the Chamber for the emergence of this situation, with these large discounts. The same goes for the CDA. It is our joint responsibility, including that of the CDA, to ensure that the armed forces can be rebuilt now that we see that the world around us is becoming more unsafe at a rapid rate. The CDA is therefore asking for an additional increase in the Defence budget of 200 million, so that the cuts that must be made now are not necessary. We cannot cover this in a single budget. That's why I'd like to indicate how the CDA proposes to do this. We still have the Dutch Good Growth Fund. The CDA has said from the outset that this budget can be spent in a different way. The CDA would like to use this money for the military. According to the CDA, an amount of 50 million should be available from a national scale reduction in the price adjustment. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Earlier in this debate, we have talked about national security and justice. In the chaotic world in which we live, foreign and inland are more and more interwoven. The Foreign Minister is already looking up, because he now thinks he can also become Minister for the Interior, but that remains two separate ministers. Jihadists commit attacks in Europe. Young people go from here to those areas to fight. This spring, the joint action of the group chairmen led to the strengthening of the AIVD. However, our judicial and police machinery is becoming more and more depravable. May I go further, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u55	If it's a little bit more...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u56	At least I'll know if I have to read it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr. Zijlstra, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mr Buma just indicated a few shifts; they were just passing by. May I conclude from this that the CDA's counter-budget is going to follow, so that we can see these shifts in a row? Then we can assess exactly what Mr Buma is proposing. For example, he mentioned in a clause the 50 million price adjustment that is being skimmed on defence, education and roads. These are all things that I, as a VVDer, would not want to cut back. I would like to make these points clear and therefore I expect the CDA to deliver butter to the fish and simply come up with a counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u59	That is a valid point. However, I find the word 'counter-budget' surprising because I have indicated that I support the broad lines, such as the 5 billion. What Mr Zijlstra can expect from me is that whatever I will do, I will indicate what specific points the CDA wants to change and how the CDA intends to cover it. That is what I will do for those subjects for which we already want to come up with changes over budgets. Changes in the budgets - that is not so many - will be dealt with later. The CDA has far fewer changes than last year. Then it was an increase in charges, and now we are dealing with a reduction in charges. Furthermore, when I say that we have to be prudent in spending money I just mentioned wages I do not feel free to spend a lot of extra money. So the cover is the Dutch Good Growth Fund. Last year we indicated a price adjustment in the counter-budget. But with $50 million, you're far from getting that amount of price adjustment. This would include two sectors for which we do not want to do so: defence and justice. And infrastructure too, because it is always very subject to price adjustments. But I've been paying attention: they're smaller amounts. I have one last sentence: the goal is the most important thing for us. I realize very well that if we want to achieve this, we need more parties. What is real coverage is therefore a real demand. That's the CDA's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u60	I have noted that there is support for burden relief. I have noted that there is support for prudent fiscal policies. I'd love to take that. Last year we had a whole discussion with Mr Roemer and he learned from it. It would be nice if Mr Buma would deliver it now, so that we have clarity and know exactly what the CDA is proposing. We can suspend for that or get it on dinner break. Mr Buma shoots defence at the price adjustment and roads out. That's very good and I'm happy about that, but at some point there's nothing left. I'd like to know what it is. Does it all end up in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u61	Among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u62	It would be nice if the CDA put those kinds of choices on paper, so that we can all look at them and calculate them. Then we also know exactly what the CDA stands for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u63	Still, it's not that complicated. A counter-budget, as we tabled last year, would indicate that we want to make major changes throughout the budget. What the CDA wants to do here is to indicate a number of sectors, and I will mention one more, namely the Justice Department, but that is the only thing that the Group believes should be paid urgently, despite the fact that we need to be economical. Mr Zijlstra may expect the CDA Group to indicate how it intends to pay for this. Am I taking the consequences? Yeah, I'll take it, and I'll call it here. I can even give the texts to Mr Zijlstra; that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u64	I will immediately take back the word 'counter-budget' after what Mr Buma has said. I understand that the CDA will support and support the policy of the Cabinet, almost in its completeity, except for a few exceptions, which it will deliver on paper. I think that's good news.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u65	I do not know what is so surprising about my attitude for Mr Zijlstra. I opened my speech by saying that we support the 5 billion, which is the biggest change this year. I mentioned all the changes we want, such as excise duties and care, and I indicated that we will cover them within the budgets. We will. If Mr Zijlstra hoped that the CDA would say, after all the burden increases,'more burdens; we are going to make a counter-budget', then I have to disappoint him, because: no, we are not going to do that. I would say: collect and understand that this is a way in which we can move forward at this time of little money. Where is the big change regarding the CDA? It is part of labour market reforms. I really hope for the support of the VVD Group on this point, as Mr Zijlstra said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u66	I understand Mr Zijlstra's satisfaction. I can also see that the cabinet leans backwards and thinks: apple egg that CDA. That is your right, of course, Mr Buma. I think it is a pity that you did not put something on paper, because it is now quite difficult to get a grip on exactly what you want. That's why I'm asking you exactly what you're going to do with the Dutch Good Growth Fund. You are going to make money out of that, 50 million if I have understood you correctly, but that is, of course, money with a specific purpose. After all, it is intended for one of the major questions at this time, namely what is happening around Syria and the reception of refugees. It is clear what you want to do in Syria yourself, whether it is very realistic for the short term, but what do you want to do in that region, including in the financial sense? All I hear now is: taking money away from the place where money is available, even though I do not think it is enough to do anything there right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u67	The Dutch Good Growth Fund is something other than emergency aid to refugees. The Dutch Good Growth Fund consists of companies that receive subsidies or support to sell their products in the third world. That is what the CDA has found from the outset, and therefore last year, no sensible use of resources. So the CDA says we don't now. If you think that the money should be spent in this way, you do not agree with us, but I would remind you that you also think that we need more money for the defence industry. This will also require consultation on where this money should come from, but do not say that this is not cover, because we had coverage last year. You may not agree, but it is. The same applies to the price adjustment. We also said at the time that it is not self-evident that the government receives this price adjustment every year. You can do that in a targeted way, because the government has been growing every year. At the end of this cabinet period, the government is billions and billions larger than at the beginning. At the beginning of my speech I kept a whole story about how we want to make society strong and how the government is so big. In addition, we are willing to make choices which reduce the government's size.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u68	Of course, there has to be more money in the defence sector, even more so than the cabinet is now doing, even though that is much more than we ever expected from this cabinet; last year we really didn't foresee that it would develop this way. We are still closing the huge crater that was beaten under Rutte I, a cabinet for which you were responsible at the time. So it's gonna be a while. My point is that I have to note that you are taking money away from development cooperation to bring that money to the Department of Defense. However, this money is intended to provide a longer-term perspective in that region. This makes the gap even bigger than the 1 billion cuts it's going to now. This year it's already 750 million. I would therefore like to support what Mr Zijlstra has said: put it on paper for us. We take you seriously. You will notice that, otherwise we would not have asked any questions. We would very much like to be able to see in concrete terms what exactly you are shifting and what holes might fall in other places.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u69	The story is this. That's all there is! The rest comes to the individual budgets. The only other example I will mention is justice. I asked a question about how the 5 billion was designed. I have also made a plea for far-reaching labour market reform. We said last year that there should be a reduction in the burden, and you can expect us not to call for an increase in the burden now. The odd thing is that you want the CDA to be against it now, when you were so angry last year that we weren't in favour. The world is turning around very quickly in this house, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u70	That last sentence could have been my way. I'm pretty surprised now. Mr Buma says: the 5 billion, okay, I believe. For the rest, he doesn't come up with additions, not changes. In one area, we have always increased with the CDA: the cuts in health care, the cuts in care for the elderly and home care, on everything that went to the municipalities. The CDA stood here at the front door of the House of Representatives to be very angry at all the cuts. But now, nothing. No counter-budget, no euro for care. How the hell does Mr Buma intend to cope with this within the healthcare budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u71	Last year it was also within the healthcare budget. That's what the CDA was able to do at the time. Remember: when we talk about the overall healthcare budget, we talk about something like EUR 74 billion. This year, too, the budget is rising, albeit less than in the past. So the CDA is really reluctant to supplement the healthcare budget by raising higher taxes, as the SP does. Mr Roemer spends more money on a lot of things, but increases taxes by 1 billion. That's not the CDA's choice. As a CDA, we must therefore recognise that we must be more economical. However, I keep saying that the CDA is not going to make a total counter-budget. We will bring our amendments to every budget, just as it should be. The biggest problems I've identified. I've been talking about defense, and I'm gonna get to the Justice Department part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr Buma can bring in all sorts of things, but his party was in the lead with us to say that the cuts in care were irresponsible. When hundreds of thousands of signatures were filed, the CDA was in the front. On radio and television and in the newspapers, it has done nothing else in recent months, and rightly so, to say that the cuts in municipal care are irresponsible and that money must be added. During the only debate in which it can be demonstrated where the money is coming from, the CDA is absent. Was that why the CDA was suddenly absent from the demonstration last Saturday? Was it because the group chairman apparently does not want to transfer money for the care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u73	The CDA was not at the manifestation last Saturday because what was said goes further than we consider justified. I am therefore very honest: we are not going to a demonstration to pretend that we are so angry. Moreover, I think that the question of care is very real. Of course, Mr Roemer may put it. However, I believe that the CDA should make counter-budgets if it wants major changes across all posts. Last year we transferred a number of hundreds of millions from one part of care to care for the elderly. That's what we'll do again. This concerns, for example, the night posts of the general practitioners, for which their own contribution can be requested. We presented this plan last year, and we are going to do it again. Why? Because others didn't want it. Again, when it comes to raising taxes to spend, Mr Roemer knows that he does not think the CDA is on his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u74	I also know now that the CDA is not on our side to repair the cuts in health care, nor is it on the side of all those people in home care who are being dismissed and of the municipalities that are no longer able to live up to caring for the elderly. That's allowed. That's the CDA's right. But in future, in all debates, in all interviews for radio and television, keep in mind that the CDA does not have the money to fix it. That's okay, but we don't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u75	I say again to Mr Roemer: last year, too, we made the money for the changes from other areas of care, because we felt that the increase in healthcare expenditure that was already there could not be increased. We can choose to do so, but I would ask Mr Roemer to make a great deal of savings elsewhere. He won't. He raises taxes by a lot, and the CDA finds that totally irresponsible at this time. In fact, we support the reduction. The CDA therefore deliberately chooses to recognise that it supports a number of tax reductions when, unlike in the past, it does not say "no" to tax increases. I'm gonna tell you exactly where I want it to be today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u76	I recognise the points raised by Mr Buma when he says that extra money is needed for defence and for security and justice. However, I find it rather surprising that he limited it to that, considering how critical the CDA has been in recent years. Is it not true that the cuts in defence and security are actually the effects of the previous cabinet, in which the CDA itself sat? Isn't Mr Buma mainly trying to make up for his own past mistakes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u77	I have just said that there is a responsibility there for almost all parties, also for the CDA in Rutte I. Rutte I found another large post by the Minister from Balkenende IV. All this has gone to the cuts that have been made. I have just said that we have a broad responsibility, including the CDA, but given the insecurity in the world, we all have a responsibility to do something about it now, because we cannot leave it that way. The CDA took responsibility for what happened. That's what I'm saying now. However, I believe that this does not relieve us of our responsibility, with the insecurity in the world, to do something about the gaps in the defence sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u78	I appreciate that. I just indicated that the surprise is not so much in the fact that the CDA is now proposing to reverse the changes of recent years, but that it is gaps that have arisen as a result of past policies. I find that surprising. Does the CDA still want to keep the way of cover open? Mr Slob has just said that he sees something in the defence sector, but it is not that post again. Is Mr Buma prepared to seek broad parliamentary support in defence and security in order to improve on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u79	Yes, there is that willingness. The CDA realises that it can say on its own that the budget of justice is not satisfactory, but that there are a lot of parties that object. You need to watch that change together. I'm just saying what the CDA thinks is a responsible way of covering. I am well aware of this, and perhaps the cabinet will have to comment on it, which is feasible. This applies both to the defence and to this point. It also applies to other items in the budget. In a number of cases, we have proposals which are not new, and I have already mentioned them, but I hope that the cabinet will look at them again in another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u80	It's always useful to have something on paper, so I took last year's CDA counter-budget. Last year there was investment in healthcare, a little less than 100 million. The money was taken from other items of the budget. I would like to return to the tax system, the 5 billion and the support that the CDA would like to give to the cabinet. Mr Buma spoke about taxation in relation to the necessary reforms in the labour market. Was that a condition that was made or does he think it should be done? Or does Mr Buma expect an agenda for the labour market from the Cabinet before going to support the 5 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u81	If I had really set conditions, I should have said from the start: we do not agree, unless. We think that 5 billion is sensible. Others may not think so, but the CDA said last year: these tax increases are bad, we should not do that, provide relief for middle income. Now there will be a reduction in the burden in favour of middle income. Then I'm not gonna come up with something to make that difficult. However, the points I raise on the labour market are important when we talk about the Social Affairs budget. Is this cabinet really prepared to create more jobs or is it lip service? Is the cabinet really prepared to finally come up with a vision ofzzp'ers or is one so divided that one does not get out? That is what I want to hear, and that is what we will discuss in this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u82	I was just looking for the coherence of the various points mentioned. Much is about aid for the 5 billion relief. If you put so much effort into these labour market reforms and see that together with the reduction in the burden of creating jobs, I think you can see a link between these two. Is Mr Buma saying that we are going to deal with this separately, and whether or not labour market reforms are relevant to the way he looks at the 5 billion reductions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u83	I think I will make it very difficult to achieve what I want, namely to reduce the burden. The CDA wants relief. I can tell you a hundred times. That's wise. Charge lighting creates jobs. It provides lighting for the middle groups, who are the hardest caught. I'm not gonna say: I want to, but I'm gonna sneak up on all kinds of extra conditions not to agree. If it remains broadly what it is, we are happy to agree. However, I would say that the cabinet is forgetting something, such as a reform of the labour market in the area ofzzp'ers, pay-as-you-go payments and the quota law that costs more jobs than it produces. You name it. That agenda leaves the cabinet behind, and the CDA doesn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u84	I understand. I was looking for the grosso modo. That is quite crucial. You support the package if it remains broadly the same, but what is that then? I'm trying to get it a little more concrete. That's why I keep asking questions. You were very clear, Mr Buma: if the capital tax remains in the 5 billion package, it will hurt the CDA. That was a clear message. You also mentioned those labour market reforms. I would like to make it clear whether it is part of this 'grosso modo', or whether it also determines whether or not you want to support the 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u85	When I spoke of the 5 billion, I indicated that I do have big questions about the shift from the tax reduction scheme for low income, the so-called low income advantage (liv). This regulation comes out and instead a few purchasing power measures come back. I asked the cabinet whether that would be wise in a package intended for more jobs. That is what we would like to see adapted. Whether I vote for or against something, it only becomes clear in the end, always. In any case, let us keep in mind that reducing the burden at times when the economy is going to stimulate a little but the jobs are still lagging behind is a policy that helps our entrepreneurs, our families and our SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u87	I was at the last part of my speech, which is about justice and security. I have already said that foreign and domestic relations were intertwined and indicated that the reorganisation of the police, which was intended as a reinforcement, would end up in a hopeless swamp under pressure of simultaneous austerity. In addition, the prosecution, the NFI and the case-law are reduced irresponsiblely. The result is the closure of courts in the region. Almelo, Assen, Maastricht and Alkmaar are closing, against the agreements that were made very recently with the Chamber. Those courts would stay open. The cabinet neglects one of its core tasks here. That is irresponsible and unacceptable. The CDA wants at least EUR 200 million invested in security by 2016. I'll go back to where the CDA wants to get that money. Most of that money can be taken from the removal of Minister Asscher's job plans, which I have already said are completely pointless for the CDA. That money has to come from somewhere else... relief. That's the one. There will be a few tens of millions left. That money is in the pot price adjustment, which thus reduces between 50 and 100 million in total. Those are the posts. My fellow Members can ask me about this; is it clear enough? This is it. If the colleagues have better cover, I'll hear about it. I am aware that a very large number of Members of this Chamber think that the Justice budget cannot, and I have to say that I hear that this will also be very difficult in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u88	The cover's clear. We ourselves looked at the amount of Mr Asscher's job plans, because we too knew that there was still so much money on the table. But I can also tell you that the CPB, the institute which has assessed both the cabinet plans and our plans, has said that this can no longer be done because that amount has already been invested in some way. So we in the Chamber can't get that anymore. That is a small problem we have with the CPB, but it is a problem if you want to present an alternative budget to the cabinet, whether it is a counter-budget or a pre-budget. Anyway, I think your point is clear. I think that we should look together and you will find us on your side in a way to restore the enormous weaknesses that exist in this budget and so severely affect our criminal justice chain. I also look at the VVD and the Labour Party. I think they should deliver from the Chamber, too. We know they've split some money among themselves for some nice things. There are sometimes some very important fun things,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr Slob, in the event of an interruption, you are supposed to ask a question to the person who is standing here, not someone who has yet to come or who has just been here for three hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u90	Yes, but I think Mr Buma agrees with me that the Labour Party and the VVD will also have to deliver in this respect. I am very curious to see whether we are going to get along in the next few days, but it is clear that something needs to be done. I think the Minister agrees with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr President, Mr Slob's interruption was so beautiful that you took it as my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u92	I'll give you a chance to finish your lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u93	I'm almost out of line. This signal is very important and I also give it to the Cabinet, namely that security is the most important criterion at this time of insecurity. I say to my fellow Members once again that we must focus on this. If we all say how unsafe and insecure it is, we should also be willing to focus on the most important parts. I will come to the close and that will be taken care of by Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u94	I just want to be clear. I have therefore understood Mr Buma correctly that he does not have a counter-budget, because the word 'against' contradicts him on that point. He supports the lines of the cabinet and the budget before it. He made a number of comments on Justice and other posts and these are the CDA's amendments to the budget. Can we still get it on paper? That's my first question. By the way, will it not be the case that the CDA's proposals for cover have been rejected by the CPB? That is my second question. Surely it is not the case that the CDA does not have a counter-budget because it did not get an agreement from the CPB? Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u95	No, I do not have a counter-budget because most of the things that the CDA wants are changed within budgets and can therefore be introduced as amendments, like other years and in all budgets. Since we do not have a counter-budget, so we do not have a large system of changes, we should not make a big show of it as if we had a counter-budget. Once again, last year it was different because we were of the opinion that these tax increases could not be done, but I am open to all kinds of proposals for cover. The amount we want to change is not super large. If you do it in billions, our colleagues on the left will immediately say that taxes must be raised. The great cloud hanging above it is, of course, that we are all talking about a budget when the cabinet does not even know how to get out of this very big refugee problem. We've talked about that before. Those are the dramas of the moment. From the budget for the coming year, the umpteenth of this cabinet with little new policy, we are making two major points, namely Justice and Defence. With regard to excise duties, care and a number of other things, we will be tabling amendments to those budgets. I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr Buma's answer is clear. He broadly supports the budget of this cabinet. On departmental budgets, he will do one more thing here and there. The things he wants to change and which he has read, he will deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u97	But there's nothing more to be delivered than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u98	Well, then, I have a question. There was therefore no need at the CDA for an alternative budget. So Mr Buma hasn't spoken to the CPB lately either, because there was no need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u99	Yes, of course I do. We spoke to the CPB at a very early stage to see if we would make a counter-budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u100	For example, you didn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr Buma has the floor!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u102	... So we didn't do that. It's not that crazy. I think you should always talk to the CPB even before the summer. You have to decide whether you should come up with a counter-budget if you see the picture, or whether you think that there should be some changes in this budget but that the main line can be maintained. The latter was our choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u103	Before the summer, I understand, but you didn't make another attempt last Monday, when it turned out that the CPB didn't honour some of the posts that prevented you from getting an alternative budget? So that is absolutely not true, as I understand from these words?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u104	I'm saying that we've had discussions with the CPB, but we've decided ourselves that a counter-budget doesn't make sense if you follow the cabinet to a large extent. In essence, that had happened a long time ago, because I talked about the period before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u105	It's clear to all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u106	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr Pechtold still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u108	Let's see. Against the social loan system 1.2 billion. Against the landlord's levy of 1.7 billion. Against continuing the VAT reduction in construction 250 million. Excise duties: 300 million. Care and Wmo 700 million. Chronically ill 500 million. Child regulation $400 million. Retirement plans: 1.1 billion. Those are indeed all the bad jobs done by a constructive opposition over the past two years and every time I had that Buma in my calves: why do you do it, why do you do it, why do you do it? Last year, we had an extra $3.3 billion in defense. Infrastructure 0.2 billion. Wmo 0.2 billion. Chronically ill 0.1 billion. Child benefit: 0.3 billion. Pension structure... It was really a party, but then I had that Buma hanging in my calves again: why don't you join us, why don't you join us? Now the money is being distributed with hardly any job effect, but who dares to hand out money when people ask for it? And now Buma says, "Yeah, I'm coming in. But all that other stuff, he just accepts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u109	I understand Mr Pechtold less and less slowly. All these measures have been introduced by him; they are in laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u110	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u111	Well, that's the whole story. All we can do for this year is ease the pain. That is what we do, for example, in the case of the Health budget. It is all very nice that Mr Pechtold says this and I understand that he does. But again, they're all your plans, not the CDA's, and they're stuck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u112	All spring we've been plowing there, we've been grubbing there, we've been standing there in those trees doing everything, this and that. We've got that whole yard in order. The garden chairs are put outside and Buma says, "Well, I'll sit down." That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u113	It is really unprecedented that Mr Pechtold here really thinks that everything he has introduced now offers such a beautiful picture in the Netherlands. I told you. That's why I told you that we still have repairs to do in healthcare, of course. That is why I said that there is a great deal missing from the labour market. But if Mr Pechtold is so very proud of all these tax increases, then he should stay in his seat. Now, let's get this over with. The economic growth that our country is experiencing is good news. Our country benefits from the attracting trade, but we need to be aware of the many vulnerabilities. The debate on budgets is often about money, but the main challenges ahead are not about money. They're about providing security in an unsafe world. They're about providing security in an uncertain world. As I said at the beginning, that threat doesn't just come from outside; it also comes from inside. That threat is there when we stop maintaining our own values and standards, our own Jewish-Christian tradition, we don't know what we stand for and we don't know that we have to defend ourselves together against threats from outside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u114	Before you sit down again, I shall first give the floor to Mr Wilders, who has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u115	These are very nice words from Mr Buma at the end of the day. We now have a huge problem with 3,000, 4,000 asylum seekers per week. We cannot wait for his story about military intervention in Syria, whether or not that will happen. We now have a problem in the Netherlands: thousands of asylum seekers per week, including, unfortunately, a number of terrorists disguised as asylum seekers. Do you think that these people should not enter the Netherlands now, Mr Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u116	The asylum procedure is open to people fleeing, to some in the Netherlands and to some in other countries. I indicated earlier that the big problem is at the source. You don't want to go there, but we have to go there to fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u117	We have a problem now. That story about the source, it's all beautiful, but we have a problem right now. 3,000 people came last week. I think that out of those 3,000 were about 2,990 Muslims, who do not share the culture you were talking about and the Christian-Jewish values you were just talking about, who have nothing to do with them and who are not looking for them here, even more so, because of whom our standards and values are being compromised. Beautiful stories about the future are all wonderful, but what do you think? At least you'll say something, then you'll do something. Will you ensure that the Netherlands is protected from entering our country tomorrow? Or do you say we should do something in Syria sometime, but so far they're all allowed to come in? Do you say, "Come on in and ask for asylum"? Then I'm talking about the 3,000 people who just knock at the door last week and probably again this week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u118	If an asylum seeker lodges an application for asylum, he shall have the right to make that application for asylum as far as the CDA is concerned. Because you know: in those Christian values and norms, which you say you defend, you also think about someone else and not just yourself. I'd keep that up, too. Then it's not that if you're Muslim, you go elsewhere and seek your salvation, and that if you're Christian, you can stay. A fair question, however, is whether we can do this in the long term. No, we can't do this in the long run. That is why the application for asylum should also lead to temporary protection. We have argued for this before, so that we can return after the conflict. That is why we must ensure that other countries are involved. You are incredibly opposed to Europe, but this is where Europe must ensure that Eastern European countries are also involved. So more can happen, but I will not be told that the Christian tradition teaches that you never give Muslims asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u119	But Europe is doing nothing. You can say: you can't see if they're Muslims or not. But it is. And it's 3,000 a week. And if it goes on like this, and Europe doesn't come to a solution, then it's 150 000 a year. And if they all take one more person for family reunification or formation, it's 300,000 a year. That's a city like Utrecht. Then where are you with your Christian values? Where the hell are you? Do you say, because we must be merciful, come in, replace our people, replace our country? If those are the Christian values, you're not worth a snipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u120	Mr President, do you know what's so unusual? This year, Mr Wilders celebrates his 25th anniversary here under this cheese clover. He can walk by your house and then he'll be congratulated. 25 years. Of those 25 years, he's been filling up for about the last 10 years. Fighting with everyone, opinions about everything. But what's the big problem? He doesn't do anything to achieve it. What the CDA wants with other parties is to try to take those steps that can. We even had a cabinet that was tolerated by Mr Wilders. He tolerated that money went to Greece; the cabinet was allowed to sit. He tolerated the whole asylum procedure we had. That was the reality. He does nothing but take as much speaking time as possible here on the interrupting microphone, and he doesn't solve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u121	After three guys get to clap at the CDA, I say, they're all you-baked. "You've been in the Chamber for so long," "you've ruled with us": they're all you-baked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u122	But it's true, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u123	Usually when someone comes in with you-bakes, especially you, Mr. Buma, they just don't have an answer. Your answer is that you come up with great views about what needs to be done in Syria, while that CDA voter knows that they're just entering Buma with thousands of people, including terrorists. Buma from the CDA doesn't do anything about it. You have beautiful views, beautiful stories, but they're all coming in. Your words about our values, our Christian values are just hollow rhetoric. You simply replace our Christian culture by the Islamic culture by en masse bringing it in. That's impossible, isn't it? People don't want that, do they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u124	I think I know better what the CDA members think of closing all the borders and the rhetoric of Mr Wilders than he does. When it comes to asylum policy, we have a very big problem with it alone. The question is when the cabinet will come up with one answer. On Monday's summit, for example, we do not know what that is. However, I will continue to say to Mr Wilders, here again today: at the beginning of the day, he starts his game of changing the debate today. He can do all that, but slowly, after 25 years, he has to wonder if his contribution might destroy more than it helps. I'm afraid when he leaves politics, nothing has changed. He'll have to charge himself for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u125	I can agree with Mr Buma's last speech, but how are we going to solve these major problems? I've been in the chair for a while for him, too. At that time it was all about the solution as it is in the cabinet policy. Mr Buma then created a sort of verbal contradiction around borders for half an hour, with all the mist fragments and smoke clouds around them. I expected, quite frankly, that I would hear a truly alternative solution in the CDA's speech. Do I understand now that his solution is that the Netherlands is going to participate in a ground war in Syria where we do not yet have an idea how to put an alternative government there? Is that the alternative that the CDA is going for, when it had all that commentary on cabinet policy? Is that the alternative? That's downright disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr Zijlstra remains in the groove of his own proposal: the borders are closed. That's what I cared about. The VVD tells the Dutch people that it will close the borders of Europe. There was also the word "real." I said: that is not true. I have indicated what should happen: temporary statuses. And I think that the whole Chamber finds that it is not at all an exclusive CDA thing that needs more shelter in the region. However, I am opposed to the VVD putting up such an image, the image of "we solve it." The CDA also realises that the solution is difficult. That's what I say every time. That's gonna take a lot of answers. It may eventually be possible, but we have to face the fact that we have to go to the source. That's a long-term thing. In the short term, we are talking about a division between Europe. We talked about that last week. As far as the CDA is concerned, this is a temporary status. That's not "the solution." "The solution" does not exist. If there were, there would have been. I do believe that we have a responsibility to contribute to the best possible, honest outline of what the steps should be. If that could be the contribution of the Chamber, then the Chamber will do the best it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u127	The VVD is always willing to think with it. If military action would help, then the VVD is always willing to think about it. But then we should not fall into the trap that we have fallen into in the past, namely that we have no idea what will happen in the country. Then we shouldn't have the idea that you can secure an entire country. If Mr Buma of the CDA takes his own words 'we want to solve this great problem' seriously, why does he only come up with the alternative of participating in a ground war in Syria and refuses to think along in another alternative, which has now been laid down in Europe? As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be. It may also be something else, as long as it's functional. But it cannot be that the CDA seriously believes that the only alternative to this problem is to participate in a ground war in Syria? Mr Buma can't be serious about that, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u128	That is why I told Mr Samsom when he interrupted me: what you said about the political side of the matter is very true. You're making a lot of caricature, with that map and the question where the military will start tomorrow. You can do that. However, that is not the route we should go. We have to go the route with Europe. First we have to ask the basic question: do we think it is acceptable that ISIS should stay there in the longer term? I say no. Should we do more shelter in the region? I say yes. Do we have to do that diplomatically? I say yes. Should it be more temporary statuses? I say yes. However, I say no to one thing, namely the false story of the VVD, which suggests to the Netherlands that the borders will close. That's not true. If you would also say now that would help us if we did not, if you would acknowledge that it is not at all true and that you would jointly want to seek good care in the region... Yes, that is what all of Europe is doing. That's what we all want. However, that requires a little more. This requires enormous commitment, in the military field, in the field of development cooperation and in the diplomatic field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u129	When I hear it like that, we're gonna get somewhere. I hear Mr Buma's list. He mentions a lot of things that the cabinet also put in last week's letter. There's one thing he doesn't mention. I wonder if the CDA will support that. That is one of the important points. If there is such a safe reception in the region, does the CDA agree with the cabinet, with the VVD that the right to asylum in Europe may then lapse and that people who apply for asylum will be declared inadmissible? Does Mr Buma agree? Or does he think that these people should be able to get into procedure here? If that's the case, then those boats keep coming, then those people keep coming, and then we keep seeing these horrible images. What is Mr Buma going to do on that crucial point? Maybe we're more in agreement than we thought at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u130	Here's the important point. In last week's debate, I said that everything the VVD proposes is generally just standing policy. Nice term, "standing policy." If a country is a safe third country, we can already send people back there. So Mr Zijlstra says nothing very specific or special. It's okay. What's the little problem? That those countries aren't safe. To be safe, they must at least have signed the Refugee Convention; we all discussed that last week. It's not gonna happen. Mr Zijlstra is making one move which is going in the wrong direction, because it is wrong. He says, if these people do apply here, they can't file it and we send them back. Everyone has the right to apply for asylum, but it will be rejected when that country is safe. Yes, that is a reality, but I have already said that Mr Zijlstra is very close to Mr Klaver. It is the happy, beautiful world in which there are no more problems. But we don't have one. That is why Mr Zijlstra must be honest. No matter how much shelter we do in the region, people will keep coming. And we will continue to struggle with the problem. That is why we will have to go more to temporary care and we will have to get to the source. From the illusion that there may be a closing system that is the illusion that the VVD sells I distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr. Chairman. September 15, 2008, yesterday exactly seven years ago, the Lehman Brothers bank fell. A global financial crisis followed unparalleled. Now, seven years later, the blow is still echoing. European countries looked too long in the light of the upcoming headlights, then each looking for an answer and realised too late that the crisis could only be dealt with by cooperation. It's now 16 September 2015, seven years later, and right now we're staring right back in the face of a new unprecedented crisis. This time it is not a financial crisis, but a humanitarian crisis. Again, Europe seems to be showing the reflexes of seven years ago: ignoring, pointing at each other and diving away. It's the same mistakes, with more serious consequences. Because then banks fell over, but now people are drowning. Europe's imminent failure is therefore much more poignant, so finding an answer is much more urgent. Well, don't let that answer last seven years, for God's sake. Anyone who returns to the beginning of the Syrian civil war may find that five years have already passed. Haven't you learned anything? We all see the images of swimming fathers and drowning children. We see a man riding his old father in a wheelchair across the Hungarian railroad to get to the fence before it's closed. What's gotten into those who risk their lives? And what has gotten into us that we let them toil like this or even drown? The Europe of 'every man for himself' fails here again, for as long as countries are condemned to themselves, the approach remains caught up in simplistic extremes, in the sham discussion between the so-called heartless on the one hand, who are shielding with walls and closed borders, and on the other hand the so-called insanity-free on the other, who want unrestricted access and reception. While in reality speaking heart and head in each of us at the same time. After all, we give everyone the security and prosperity that we have, and we don't send anyone back to war zone. But at the same time we worry about the numbers and we wonder if there are enough homes and jobs for everyone. At national level, such a dilemma in polarization and impotence is stranded. Only Europeans can find the balance between humane and effective reception while at the same time reducing the reasons why numbers are increasing. Fortunately, the Netherlands promised before the summer to help empty the worst distress in Greece and Italy by taking over its share of the refugees. Mr (PvdA): Last week, the cabinet went a lot further with the commitment to include a four-fold greater number. In addition, the cabinet proposed to reduce the causes of the flow of refugees to Europe, for example by investing in the region, by major reinvestment programmes from that region to Europe and by the far-reaching ambition to drastically improve security, reception and perspective in that region. The day before yesterday the reception came back from Europe: half an agreement, no agreement. Some of us were afraid of this last week. The urgent part of the response, namely the solidarity of refugees across the EU countries, was a failure to meet Eastern European resistance. A very thin date should keep hope alive now. In our view, this failure has only one answer: a new attempt, and quickly. Europe will still have to show that it can bridge the differences between itself in order to shape a common future. For the Netherlands and this coalition that started bridging differences about three years ago. In October 2012, PvdA and VVD met at the bottom of the recession. The Netherlands was in a bad way. The economy was shrinking, unemployment was rising rapidly and the housing market was stalled. People's purchasing power declined quarter after quarter. More important than all these figures: The Netherlands seemed to lose his self-confidence. Our mission was therefore very clear: to let the Netherlands climb out of the recession. For that it was necessary for us to help each other to rise up, a bit like you used to help each other as a child to climb up from the too deep ditch in which you had jumped into your hubris. This gives you sore fingers, painful shoulders and dirty hands, but you'll come out. We were not only in favour of this, but we were helped by many constructive parties, such as D66, the Christian Union, the SGP and in one case by GroenLinks. It is encouraging to experience that other parties in difficult times also want to put their hands up. We knew it would not be an easy task. We knew that many sacrifices would be made to make it possible to recover. And now, three years later, we have to note that a lot of people have indeed been asked for. But luckily, that wasn't for nothing. We can see that things are getting better. Much has been achieved, but we are far from satisfied. Because as long as there are 600,000 people at home who want to work and as long as the uncertainty about all the changes is not gone, we are not finished yet. That is why it is sensible that the cabinet itself has apparently agreed to react with restraint to the good figures. I think that's very wise. September 15, exactly 7 years ago, the Lehman Brothers bank fell. A global financial crisis followed unparalleled. Now, 7 years later, the blow is still popping. European countries looked too long in the light of the upcoming headlights, then each looking for an answer and saw too late that only European cooperation could deal with the crisis. It is now September 16, 2015, 7 years later. And right now, we're staring right into the face of a new unprecedented crisis. This time not a financial crisis, but a humanitarian crisis. Again, Europe seems to be showing the reflexes of 7 years ago. Ignore, point at each other, duck away. Same mistakes. With more serious consequences. Then banks fell over, now people are drowning. The imminent failure of Europe is therefore much more poignant, finding the answer much more urgent. For God's sake, don't let that answer last seven years. Anyone who returns to the beginning of Syrian civil war may find that five years have already passed. Haven't you learned anything? We're all seeing the footage. From swimming fathers. From drowning children. From a square full of men yelling they're coming to Germany. A man who hastens his old father in a wheelchair over a Hungarian railway line, to get to the gate before it closes. What's wrong with her who's risking their lives? And what has gotten into us that we let them toil, or even drown? Everyone's Europe is failing here. As long as countries are condemned to themselves, the approach remains trapped in the simplisms of the extremes. In false discussion between the so-called 'heartless' who screen with walls and closed borders, and the 'intellectless' who want unlimited access and shelter. While in reality each of us speaks heart and head at the same time. We give everyone the security and prosperity we have and we don't send anyone back to war zone. But we also worry about the numbers and wonder if there are enough homes and jobs for everyone. At national level, this dilemma is stranded in polarisation and impotence. Only Europeans can find the balance between humane and effective reception while at the same time reducing the reasons why numbers are increasing. Fortunately, the Netherlands promised before the summer to help empty the worst distress in Greece and Italy by taking over our share of the refugees. And the Cabinet went a lot further in that last week with the commitment to include a four-fold greater number. And it suggested reducing the causes of the flow of refugees to Europe. With investment in the region and larger resettlement programmes from the region to Europe. With a far-reaching ambition to dramatically improve security, reception and perspective in the region. The day before yesterday the deception came from Europe. Half a chord, no chord. What some of us were afraid of last week: the urgent part of the answer: a solidarity-sharing of refugees across the EU countries, ran counter to Eastern European resistance. A very thin date must now keep hope alive. Mr President, there is only one possible answer to this failure. It's a new try. And fast. Europe will still have to show that it can bridge the differences between itself in order to shape a common future. Mr President, For the Netherlands and this coalition that started bridging differences three years ago. In October 2012, PvdA and VVD met at the bottom of the recession. The Netherlands was in a bad way. The economy was shrinking, unemployment was rising rapidly, the housing market was stalled, the organisation of care was threatened to become unsustainable, and people's purchasing power fell quarter by quarter. More important than all these figures: The Netherlands seemed to lose his self-confidence. Our mission was clear with that. Climbing the Netherlands out of the recession. For that, it was necessary to help each other get up. Like when you were a kid, you helped each other climb up out of a deep ditch. It gets sore fingers, sore shoulders and dirty hands, but you'll come up. Not only were we in favour of this, but we were helped by constructive parties D66, ChristenUnion and SGP. And in one case, GroenLinks. It is encouraging to experience that other parties are also putting their hands up in difficult times. We knew that would not be an easy task. We knew that sacrifices would be asked to make the recovery possible. Now, three years later, we have to say that we have indeed asked a lot of people. But luckily, that wasn't for nothing. We see that things are steadily improving and that, after a number of years of division and despair, the Netherlands slowly regains its optimism. So much has been achieved, but we are not satisfied yet. Because as long as there are 600,000 people left at home who want to work and as long as the uncertainty of all the changes is not gone and the improvements we have made are not yet tangible for everyone, we are not ready yet. That is why it is sensible that the cabinet itself has apparently agreed to react with restraint to the good figures. I think that's very wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u132	Let me ask you a question about the introduction. What does Mr Samsom mean when he says it's gotten better for so many people? Does he mean that the number of millionaires has increased? Does he mean the enormous decline in purchasing power in recent years for the people at the bottom of society? Is that what Mr Samsom means when he says it's gotten better for so many people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u133	I didn't say that so many people are doing better. I'll tell you in a minute that a lot of people haven't noticed. It's in my text. The Netherlands is doing better, but we are far from satisfied. I am referring, for example, to the increase in purchasing power which will be distributed this year and next year. After years of decline in purchasing power, between 2009 and 2013, we are finally seeing purchasing power increases again and again in a way that appeals to the Labour Party. People with a minimum income get the most and people with a slightly higher income get a little less. That is a just division of lusts and burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u134	That is what we are going to talk about at the next Interruption. I'll get up one more time. I just want to talk about the introduction: the Netherlands is doing better. How is the Netherlands doing better? What world did you go to see?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u135	Yes, in the world...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u136	I wasn't ready, Mr. Samsom. I'm sorry I took a breather, but it was really necessary. 'Cause look how many people can't afford the care anymore. 1 million Dutch people cannot pay the healthcare contributions. More than 350,000 people have payment problems as a result. The public sector has been demolished. We've just had a financial crisis because of deregulation. I've got you there. How is the Netherlands doing better?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u137	That financial crisis, which I also started, was in 2008. You cannot blame this cabinet for causing it. We have just agreed in the coalition agreement that the banks will be severely restrained this time, and I am proud of this so that the chance of a repetition will be reduced. You're talking about the public sector. This year we spend more on health, education and social security than last year and next year we spend more on health, social security and education than this year, because the public sector is dear to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u138	So those 800,000 people who signed the petition, all those people, including your supporters, who have lost faith in your party and don't think you're credible anymore, they're all wrong. So they are all wrong that parties like yours and ours should have been pulling together and that this has been broken down in recent years. So these people are all wrong. It's just for a second that we know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u139	No, these people are right, but those people still want to see the results. That is exactly why I stand here and also say to the cabinet: it's nice that things are getting better; now it's time to get the rest of the Netherlands out of that pit too. The Netherlands must start to notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u140	When I hear Mr Samsom's first words like that, it seems as if he is speaking at a farewell reception. I'm just not gonna say "at a funeral." It's like: well, we met at the well of the economy and it was like VVD and PvdA suddenly met. Six weeks before, it was still "right-wing rotten policy" towards "if you trust socialists in the Sahara, the sand will run out." It is a kind of cheerfulness, so the idea will have been with a lot of voters: well, those two are going to have a good time. And now Mr Samsom looks back at that at a time when I think: there is still a year and a half to go and employment is the most important thing. That's what I just heard the PvdA say. And those plans disappoint me so much now! Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u141	Yesterday I saw D66's plans coming along, and of course I studied them with interest. I recognized a lot of them. It was the plans that were on the table before the summer, when we sought common support for these plans with a number of parties. I remember who got off the table with the announcement: this is not going to work. I am glad that you took that page off the table at the time and that you have thought about it for another summer and that you are now coming back with an ambitious version of the Tax Plan. I'd really like to think about it, too, but we were there for it. So I don't have to think about it that long at all. That goes for the VVD, too. But that's not gonna get you there yet. You point out to us every day, or a few times a day, that we have absolutely no majority in the First Chamber, so we still have to look for it. And then it didn't work out. Maybe we can do it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u142	Let's put that last one as hopeful, but I think it's so little of "stand for your cause" witnesses. You can't keep saying as a cabinet in this turbulent electoral time every time: there is no majority, we don't come up with plans anymore; so do we just swallow our ideas? You're gonna try everything you can to get things done here, aren't you? You're going to be a PvdA... let me make a concrete proposal. The counterplans of D66 contain 1.5 billion more greening that you can stop in load relief. The knife cuts both ways and it leads to jobs. Are we gonna do business together about that and then just see if this Zijlstra doesn't quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u143	That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u144	He has to, if you say...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u145	That's not how it works. Mr Pechtold knows very well how that works. If not, anyway. Yeah, that greening was possible. It was explicitly put on the table, also in the discussion we had then. Extra greening was an option to discuss further if we could agree. We do want to see this done, and you are also interested in it, Mr Pechtold, which is the main objective of increasing employment. Lukraak ver greenen.I've also thrown a lot with it in the past not always has to work out well. So it should be wise and it should be wise. I have to say quite frankly that your proposals do meet some of the criteria of sensibleness. Now we still have a majority to find, because you and I together in the First Chamber have little to do with the milk to crumble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u146	Yeah, but this analysis doesn't match the recent past either. Last year, the cabinet itself, your cabinet, came up with these plans for 100,000 jobs, with those plans for reducing burdens, reducing administrative burdens, simplifying and greening. We'd really get a new tax system. Even then, the coalition had no majority in the Upper Chamber. And what disappoints me now is that, both in terms of greening and jobs, the PvdA is content with the weakest link of the whole, with the least that is feasible. I had hoped that some more enthusiasm would have been said today: no, this is the minimum, but we are going to add a lot more. In this respect, I found the sounds of the Minister of Finance in the past 24 hours much more positive. Will Mr Samsom, as party leader, support the Minister in this, or will he continue to hand out 5 billion with little effect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u147	I would like to combat the latter, but Mr Pechtold is entitled to his own appreciation. But yes, I echoed the Minister of Finance on that point. If there are new proposals for which there is support, that is fine. I would just like to point out that the cabinet did indeed, Mr Pechtold, describe the history well before the summer came up with a rather broad, very large proposal. There was not a bit of support for this, because Mr Pechtold was already gone before Nieuwsuur. So we were there without a majority. This coalition has, perhaps with damage and shame, learned not to get screwed up in the First Chamber. It was, among other things, Mr Pechtold's party, but it was not the only one who punished it mercilessly once. Mr. Pechtold probably still enjoys that blow; the pension scheme fell hopelessly into the First Chamber because we were unable to find a majority. So we're not gonna do that again. If we can find a majority now, it is not too late, although it is very late for many of the reforms; perhaps it will be possible to do so later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u148	For the last time. It doesn't seem like the cabinet learned from it. The Justice budget is like the retirement plans. We've just heard Zijlstra: it's just going through and seeing how hard the wall is. Anyway, we'll see about that. I think it is dangerous for progressive parties such as the PvdA and D66 to leave the part of greening immediately to gardener Buma and leave the part of employment to drive it, in particular, not only through family policy, but also through child care and very good business, only on the right side of the political spectrum. So I'm going to look again at the PvdA: how are we going to increase the number of jobs by providing these plans with more energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u149	And I'm looking back. Or rather, I did before the summer. Because the truth is: Mr Buma was no longer there at the time, because he had clearly indicated that he did not want to participate. So we had a chance at that time with a number of parties, some of them with greening ideas, to deal with each other. I couldn't. I was still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u150	And now Mr Samsom is standing here and the question is: how do we proceed? GroenLinks presented a climate budget today. We do not count in billions but in CO. How are we going to comply with the judge's ruling to reduce it? I think that is also a wish of Mr Samsom. Actually, I have a question: when do we sit down, Mr Samsom? When are we going to sit down and see what greening measures we want to work with, and are we going to fight together to find a majority in the Chamber? For I think it is too passive for the leader of the Labour Party to say: you can have all kinds of greening measures, but there must be majorities to do so. Let's look for that together. When are we going to sit down and see if we can come to a common plan for which we find the support of the majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u151	As far as I'm concerned, every day, but I would point out that we were together before the summer. Mr. Klaver was sitting there. He had already said on the news that it was all wrong, but that was his right. So we sat in there and after the atmosphere was restored, we went to work. But before we could even start, one of the parties was gone. At that time, Mr Klaver did not make much effort to keep everyone at the table. So that's a failure. We were there, and we couldn't. I'd like to try again. I saw proposals about the municipal tax area. This is not going to work before 2017, but who knows in the longer term. I see other proposals coming along. Anything that can help make a better plan: fine. But the method that Mr Klaver now tells me is exactly the method we tried before the summer and which he failed to achieve with his involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u152	It is a choice whether you look back at what has failed or look forward to how we proceed now. I hear behind me now they're having fun at the PvdA. It's not a bad idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u153	I almost wanted to say it myself, but this is fun for a change. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u154	Yes, Mr. Klaver, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u155	You can see how it went, but now I say to Mr Samsom: it may not have worked when we were all sitting there at the table; I was sitting there when we left and it was not workable at the time. The question I am asking is a very concrete one: shall we sit down together? I think Mr Samsom has a lot of ideas about how to green up taxes and how to reduce CO emissions. Let us now begin this together and take a trip through Parliament to see if we can find a majority. Is that a very strange thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u156	There's nothing weird about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u157	Why don't you take that hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u158	Here's to it. But it shouldn't be hobbyism, although I do have time for that. We'll have two parties. Together, that is a number of seats, but far from a majority. It's even more dramatic across the street. And then what? Mr Klaver tried to do it with one of the parties that could produce a majority: the CDA. I appreciate that effort and I expected it, because Mr Klaver is doing his professional political work. Mr Buma thus had his own assessment of the added value of greening, but he did not entirely reject it either. So who knows...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u159	I was in the interrupting debate, so I know exactly what Mr Buma said. The point is that I have also read the counter-budgets of the Christian Union and D66. I see all kinds of greening proposals in that. I hear Mr Buma who was critical, but who also does not completely close the door. That's where there are opportunities, isn't there? Otherwise the question is: how are we going to find out where the majorities lie? What are we prepared to do about cooperation? Then let's try not at Treasury, but at you in the room. Let's try that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u160	It's contagious and you'd almost go into it, if I hadn't had some experience with the fact that I've once tried to handle the choreography of this kind of thing myself. That didn't work out. By the way, nobody liked that in this room. You'll learn from that, too. Mr Klaver should not take that as a rejection. May I reply to his question as follows: if a process in which this should succeed is to be designed, I would like to leave that process with the cabinet and perhaps in particular with the Minister of Finance, who will begin the General Financial Reviews in one and a half weeks' time. Maybe he wants and can come a little further during the General Financial Reviews. I'm not saying that to reject it, but I'm saying that purely because I know my own shortcomings in the meantime incredibly well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u161	It is an incredible shortcoming when Mr Samsom says: when it comes to greening, I would like to sit down with GroenLinks or with any other party to discuss it, but I am not doing anything now, because we are not agreeing. What does that actually mean? Mr. Samsom just really wants to keep the VVD inboard. Mr Samsom is being held hostage by the VVD, while in the Chamber, without the VVD, there has long been a majority in favour of real greening. Why doesn't Mr Samsom just sail his own course? Why doesn't he make a deal with the green parties in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u162	I have two answers to that. First of all, there's no majority for it, especially in the Upper House. Secondly, there are better ideas. I will explain it in the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u163	It is about the fact that, also in connection with the climate issue, the cabinet has been instructed to do more to combat climate change. We can't wait any longer. Mr Samsom may point to all kinds of political games that have to be played, but we can also set the tone in the House of Representatives and, together with the parties that really go for the greening of the tax system, go to the First Chamber with plans. I expect Mr Samsom to have sufficient arguments and to have the strength to obtain a majority in the First Chamber as well. We don't need the VVD or the CDA for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u164	If Mrs Thieme waits two minutes of my speech, I may be able to surprise her, but with interruptions that is an hour and a half. Shall we make a deal? I'm sure she'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u165	No, you're not gonna make it through those two minutes, Mr. Samsom. "The strongest shoulders carry the heaviest loads" is a PvdA creed. Indeed, we have had seven years in which we have had to make substantial cuts. The PvdA has always worked hard to ensure that the lowest incomes were saved most in these cuts. Now we see that the economy is attracting. The principle of "fair sharing" should be paramount for the PvdA. If we look at minimum wages, we are indeed seeing a significant increase. But how is it that the PvdA leaves the social minimums?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u166	You're pointing it out yourself. The minimum wager gets 5.3% extra. Someone who makes about four times as much, gets an extra percent. For the elderly, people with only an AOW and no supplementary pension are still getting quite a lot of purchasing power in this country. We've been watching. It is never always for everyone, every year, to arrange at any time. Last year, a welfare family with two children received more than others. This year it's just different. We will continue to be vigilant when it comes to the social minimums. We'll keep an eye on the elderly. When the plans for the summer came to us, it was clear that much had to be done. We have also indicated this and then a lot has happened. You can count on the Labour Party, even this year, when it comes to the strongest shoulders, toughest burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u167	I do not think I need to explain to Mr Samsom the difference between social minima and the statutory minimum wage, but I also have the figures in front of me here. I would like to hand it over to Mr Samsom via a messenger. It contains exactly what is happening. I'm going to read these figures from the Nibud. What does a single person get in the welfare package? Zero euros. A single parent on welfare with one child, a welfare mom? He gets one euro a month. A single parent on welfare with two kids? It's going down a euro. I really wonder if the principle of strong and social is still in place at the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u168	Yeah, it's standing up. Last year, you could have read these figures to me. These groups got a little more. I don't know what's gonna happen next year. We have said before: if we try to adjust the point cloud on every corner of the kitchen table, it will not work here. We have really done our utmost to ensure that older people and people with benefits get a little more. That has also been achieved in this beautiful year, in which we can give everyone a little more. That's the head of the Nibud press release. You do not happen to read it, but the first sentence of it reads: virtually everyone, except for a few exceptions, is getting better next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u169	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u170	What Mr Samsom says is true, but he does lose sight of what is happening on the street. In his contribution, he said that everyone in the country has yet to notice, but we are talking about the 2016 budget and not the 2015 budget. The figures in the 2016 budget do not lie and that also makes clear what the Labour Party stands for. The migrant groups had already lost them, the social minimums have now been lost and the pensioners with a small pension have now lost them. That is a sad observation, because it is the failure of social democracy in the Netherlands. Too bad!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u171	Of course, we can spend hours measuring each other's purchasing power over a quarter of a percent. I'd love to do that, but someone in the welfare service who's dying to work isn't waiting for a quarter of a percent purchasing power. He's waiting for a job. That is why, when 5 billion was made available for reduction of charges, we made every effort to generate more work, especially for those who could get jobs that do not pay too much. My point is that people in cleaning and catering get a good minimum wage. You can get those people out of welfare now. Next year, 100,000 new jobs will be created! This is mainly about additional jobs where it is so badly needed. That's what the Party of the Árbeid stands for. People don't wait for a quarter of a percent purchasing power, people want a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u172	It's either the same for everyone or it's getting better. That's the theorem of the Labour Party. Let me take page 150 of the SZW budget and it is quite clear that for 39% of pensioners, purchasing power is either zero or negative. Those were your constituents, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u173	A large part of those people have a slightly larger supplementary pension. The reason for this development is that pension funds are still not able to index, index too little and sometimes even stamp off due to the continuing malaise and after the financial crisis. This means that an older person with a supplementary pension of €30,000 will return something. You can see this in the Nibud figures that your colleague Kuzu was kind enough to read out. But we couldn't compensate for that. We cannot, as much as I would like to, clean up the problems of pension funds. What we can do is to ensure that we release nearly 1 billion more from the 5 billion from the budget, to ensure that older people receive some additional purchasing power. Before the summer it was -1.1, after the summer it is +0.6. I think that is an achievement for which we have worked hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u174	It's not 0.6, but it's less, and it doesn't apply to all the elderly. The differences between the people who work and the people who cannot work and the people who have worked hard are growing. I'm sure your constituents won't take that to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u175	Amazing. Surprisingly, what I'm hearing. It's like the VVD's talking. The leader of the Labour Party is defending that the difference between the workers and the people with benefits should be greatly increased, knowing that in the lower categories people can't even make ends meet. If you read through the pieces and look at the pass-through, you will see that in those groups next year there will be no jobs at all, but that in the lower regions even thousands of people with benefits will be added. What happened to the social heart of the Labour Party? People with the lowest incomes will not benefit while they have surrendered, surrendered, surrendered to purchasing power for 30 years, including with the PvdA at the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u176	Our hearts lie with the 100,000 new jobs that are being filled by people who are still at home. Next year, 100,000 times, someone comes home who can say, "I have a job, I can start somewhere." That's where our hearts lie. That is why we have said: 500 million extra for low-income people, the so-called low-income provision. Some criticized it, but I stand for it. Sometimes it takes a little extra money. With this money, we will ensure that employers can also offer them another chance. Sometimes it takes a little extra money. We are not disgusting with subsidies on this point if necessary. I'm just in favour of making sure those people get another chance. But you didn't make those proposals, and you're tearing them back to the ground. That's your right, but I'm standing in front of the 100,000 people who can get back to work next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u177	It's not that important that you don't impress me. That you are not credible to your own electorate, you should take care of yourself. But you can't even convince your own party chairman. That makes it worthless by saying: in the cabinet they do not have to come up with it to encourage older people with a small pension to improve 0.2 on it. This is unworthy of social democracy, your party chairman in the Volkskrant says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u178	I didn't read that. I'm sorry. I don't know where you read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u179	Then I'd better do that, Mr Samsom. For it is of the utmost importance that we in this Chamber find more parties that stand up for the social minimum, so that people do not have to let their children grow up in poverty. The policy of this cabinet, for which you are partly responsible, does. The number of millionaires is rising again, as is the number of children to grow up below the poverty line. You are systematically abandoning that category.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u180	On children in poverty, we have made more than 100 million available in the government agreement, and then on budgets, to make their lives more bearable, for example by including them in sports. That's crucial for those kids. That's what we fought for, and that's inside. If you want to look further at the income differences in this country, just look at the available figures. You like to scatter with it, and I'll remind you. Eurostat shows that the differences in income, the so-called gini index, in which this is measured, have been greatly reduced in the Netherlands in recent years. Just look at those figures and you will see that these differences have narrowed over the past period. In many other countries around us they have grown much larger, Germany first. But we have reduced income disparities in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u181	On the contrary. Check the pieces, pull the credit transfers in the Macro Economics Reconnaissance. It says that the gini coefficient, i.e. the difference between the richest and the poorest will increase by 0.3% next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u182	The gini coefficient shall not be used in...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u183	It's in there. This means that, thanks to government policy, the differences between rich and poor are only growing further. That is the consequence of the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u184	The gini coefficient shall not be expressed as a percentage. Yeah, sorry, you can start scattering numbers...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u185	Very nice, you can try with a word game, but the policy of the PvdA means that the rich get richer and the poor are abandoned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u186	I would remind you of the graphs made by the European Commission, Eurostat. They show that in recent years the differences have narrowed. That makes us an exception in Europe. It is usually the case that, in the event of a recovery from a crisis, the differences increase quite quickly, even if you put a lot of policies on them. We can't control stock prices and stock exchanges. In the Netherlands it has been possible to reduce these differences a little bit and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u187	We can all be smart against Mr Roemer, but the point you are making is too faint for words. I was just trying to say something positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u188	Please try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u189	Fortunately, Mr Roemer can laugh about it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u190	When we look at the gini coefficient, we see that the distribution from the 1990s onwards has been roughly the same in the Netherlands for years. Mr Samsom is quite right about that. However, if we look at the development of the richest 10% and the poorest 10%, we can see that in recent years the differences are only widening. What strikes me is that the PvdA always tries to steer the gini coefficient, but does not see how we can narrow the gap between these summits, which is so important for cohesion and solidarity in society. People get annoyed, not by the small differences with the middle class, but by bankers who bring huge bonuses home or to the people who enrich themselves in the public sector. That is where the differences are, and that is where the unrest in society comes from. No steps are being taken to bridge that gap, not even in this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u191	The income and assets of the upper 10% increase mainly because their returns are higher than those of people with small assets, who have to have savings. It is precisely for this reason that we have advocated a more equitable burden on those assets and a more effective return. We think that if you have a high return, you should also pay a little more tax. If you have a low return, you have to pay less taxes. I am pleased to see that, and you cannot see that in last year's gini index or in which index you are looking for, because that should not start until next year. I am pleased with that; I accept you, too, because I know you as a big fan of such measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u192	That is a step in the right direction, but I spoke about something else. I wasn't talking about property inequality. I was talking about income inequality. Mr Samsom rumbles on the drum and says that the distribution is very similar in the Netherlands. I would remind him of another statistic, namely that the difference between the richest 10% and the poorest 10% is only widening in recent years. Mr Samsom is not doing anything about that. Before he says we're so equal, it's just what numbers we're looking at and what explanation you're giving. That would be a little bit more honest to tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u193	The highest 10% of the wealthy gets their income mainly from their wealth. The people with a salary of more than 2 million can be placed in that box. The people with the highest abilities get their income from that wealth. It is fair and sensible and also effective policy if we start to tax our capabilities a little more fairly and look more at the actual returns. We had this 4% flat charge, which, of course, a saver never gets to and a stock specific is far above.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u195	It was already mentioned more or less casually in the interruptions: it is time for everyone to see that things are getting better. Let us say that the edge of the pit has now been reached. We have pretty much got the top of the edge and now it is important to lift the whole of the Netherlands out of the pit. The reduction in the burden at work, which makes it easier for people to get a job and leave more money in their pockets, contributes to this. A more just property tax, a long-cherished wish of ours, also does. I also welcome other plans presented yesterday. Parents also see the recovery in their wallet due to less childcare costs. We're gonna get all the toddlers to the shelter. The paternity leave is extended from two days to one week. This is how we continue to work on this modern, caring society. And another thing: since yesterday afternoon, at 3:15 sharp, a border closed, namely the tax avoidance route towards Brasschaat. Closed in one go! That is a good first step in tackling corporate tax avoidance. Anyway, there are a lot of new tasks for the cabinet. Much remains to be done. The cover in the care is not flawless and is certainly not yet completed. The promise of sufficient work for people with disabilities, a hard promise, must be fulfilled. Extra money has been allocated for this. We want to see what the plans associated with this extra money actually bring about. That promise of ours stands. And where's the cop's collective agreement? These people are ready for our safety every day, in weather and in wind, often in dangerous situations. They deserve our full support and a good collective agreement. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister what ideas the cabinet now has to get that done quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u196	It was about promises. A subject that has not yet been raised today, but which surprised me yesterday, was that sudden story about exchange rates and an aircraft that is going to cost more than half a billion dollars. I remember promises from the PvdA that it wouldn't be a penny anymore. How do we see that for the coming time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u197	So I see there's not a penny extra budgeted. I do see a certain dollar rate; I'm glad we don't have to pay for these things now! Then all the delay we have all discussed so hard has been good for something. So there's nothing going on right now, but I see this too, and the Cabinet sees it too. However, the cabinet has decided that this is sensible and also in line with our desire to not budget a penny extra for that thing. But, as a result, everyone sees, just like you, that there is a tension between the purchase amount and the reserved budgets. Let us hope that Europe will also become stronger economically quickly. Let us look at what the FED I believe is going to decide tomorrow afternoon about interest rates. Perhaps the dollar is falling slightly again compared to the euro!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u198	Yeah, but I find that very speculative. My group has so far been very reluctant to replace it. We said: buy these things off the shelf, because we don't know exactly what they cost, we don't know how much maintenance costs, in short, we have too many questions. This has given us a great deal of surprise here and there. The PvdA has explored almost all the points of view in recent years, but was ahead of it at the last moment. I'm being waved from box-K, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u199	There is no need to be distracted by that, Mr Pechtold. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u200	Oh, Mr Plasterk is here too! Mr President, 'not a penny more'. In this respect, I think the defence budget is a bit of a political announcement that it might be more expensive, while we all, under the leadership of the PvdA, have said correctly: certainly not!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u201	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u202	So that's not gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u203	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u204	It is right that Mr Samsom should draw attention to the collective agreement for the police, which is still not there, but I find it a little easy for him to return it to the cabinet. The cabinet has said: this is it, done. They're not getting out of there. To what extent is the Labour Party prepared to consider whether we can make a difference from the Chamber in order to ensure that this collective agreement comes into being? This is so incredibly bad! The police are already completely ruined by the development of the National Police, which takes much more time than we thought. People have for a long time been in uncertainty about the position they are going to get. Now we also have this big problem. Can't we go and fix that for once? Is it not even time to make a contribution from the Chamber, including from the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u205	I just did. I've asked the Prime Minister what he's gonna do to solve this, and don't let me send a rag in my ass tomorrow. This has to be solved somehow. The stalemate must be drawn smoothly. I find it rather complicated to start preparing things from the Chamber, so if you want to do so, you will receive a negative answer. I can pretty much tell from the newspapers what happened at the collective agreement table, but I did not negotiate there and I am not going to negotiate there either. I don't know exactly which button to pull to make sure the police cao gets there. The fact that it needs to be done is beyond us, and I appeal to the cabinet to take responsibility for it. For the rest, I think that the Chamber should exercise some restraint, because we should not interfere with the negotiation process. You know more from experience than I do from experience how precarious that can be. I just want the Cabinet to take on this responsibility. It promised a while ago. Something happened after that: a wage space agreement has been reached. That's not enough. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister what else he has in store for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u206	Mr Samsom is clear: there must be a clear response from the Prime Minister tomorrow. We're just gonna wait for that. I am also very curious to see what the Prime Minister will come up with, because we have been waiting for it for a very long time and it is sticking. What also hangs is the whole discussion around the courts. The cabinet has booked a cut. We know that the Council has plans to dismantle seven courts in the area of justice. A decision will be taken on 28 September, i.e. in 12 days' time. What is the position of the PvdA in this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u207	To be honest, I have a very hard mind that the decision can be made on that date. I fully understand the Council's case law. We are rightly shocked by the lack of support for these proposals and are now trying to make new ones. That's a very good idea. I think we all agree on that. But the problems are of a different order. You don't get rid of the ICT issues in two weeks. The Justice Council needs to take a little more time to make a better plan, which takes more account of the experience we have built up so far in the revision of the judicial card, the previous reform that has been carried out. I still think there may be a good plan, but it will take a little more time than is currently reserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u208	I am very pleased with this answer. Mr Samsom also meets us in this respect, because we are very concerned about what is going on there and certainly about the speed with which it is going to happen. So let us continue the discussion on this issue with the cabinet, because we will, of course, discuss it with the cabinet tomorrow. Let that be a bet. The House can make a clear statement there, namely that it does not consider it acceptable that a decision should be taken so quickly and that it needs time to prevent the forthcoming decommissioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u209	I think you speak a true word there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u210	Then we try to bring in that other point, because this is only half a step. Mr Samsom mentioned the need for a collective agreement for the police. We have no use for empty words, because we have heard them more than enough here. A lot of people have heard a lot of empty words and eventually they get nowhere with them. Police officers have been calling for months. Is the PvdA prepared with the SP to make extra money available to ensure that there can also be a decent collective agreement? Or does the PvdA agree in advance with what the cabinet keeps saying, namely that it is enough and that they should do it with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u211	Anyone who knows anything about the police, Mr Roemer is one of them who knows that the problem is much wider and much deeper than just money. Maybe it's a lot different than money. It's about very different things. It's about trust in each other and about that brutal reform towards the National Police, which didn't fall equally well everywhere. So it's about a lot more than money. It's too cheap, too easy and too flat to say we can fix it with a little money. We have concluded a wage space agreement, not because the police needed it on their own, but because after years of zero-line, we felt that the public service providers also had the right to raise the salary of teachers and all the others. The same applies to the police, but the specific collective agreement is also about very different matters. I would like the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister to tell us tomorrow that this cabinet is aware of this and that it will come up with a solution. I say it carefully, because you actually want the Prime Minister to wave the collective agreement tomorrow, but that will be a little premature. Something must be done, and I hope the cabinet realizes that. I expect an answer to that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u212	They're still empty words, and that's not gonna do us any good. Of course, it's much wider and there's a lot more to the police. Of course, they call for attention to be paid to this, but they are also very clear about a collective agreement. The offer on the table, the agreement always defended by the cabinet, is empty and is at least a cigar out of its own box. If you want to break that, the ministers must be given the resources in this area, otherwise we will not get anywhere with it. Is the PvdA prepared with the SP to release additional resources to enforce a decent collective agreement for the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u213	A lot of resources have been released and, yes, part of it is just the people's pension space. Wage doesn't come later, but it's coming now. Many people are happy about that, by the way, but well, you can discuss that. It was already theirs, it stays theirs and it only comes in sooner. However, a very large proportion, more than half, is also additional pay space. Additional money has been released in the budget. There has been a search in all corners and holes for an amount of more than 1 billion to ensure that people who do important work for all of us, for the collective interests of this country, also get the appreciation they deserve, literally and figuratively. A big step has been taken there. Those are not empty words, that is more than EUR 1 billion. It is now important to ensure that it concludes a collective agreement. What exactly does it have to do with it, whether it's commitments, money or something? Let's get that from the Cabinet and see what it comes back with. The assignment is clear: make that collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u214	Now the Labour Party is clear. So it has to be in line with the government's image, as she keeps saying, about which she's been playing around for months and which she can't agree on. The Labour Party is not prepared to invest extra in it, so there are also opportunities to reach a collective agreement. So it was all empty words to the police. There will be a collective agreement at most without the largest trade union movement. Then the Labour Party wrote it nicely on its own account. Nice work!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u215	With the police, the resistance is slightly higher than only the largest union, so we can rest assured. That's gonna be a hell of a robbery, but I'll trust the cabinet with that. The cabinet must conclude that collective agreement and it knows what the second largest coalition party thinks about it. I hope it comes with a good answer tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u216	Mr Samsom has just said: we know what the second largest coalition party thinks. I wonder a little bit, because that is not so clear. Mr Samsom called on the cabinet to clarify very quickly and to conclude a collective agreement. That's the problem. There is a large gap between what the cabinet wants to offer and what the unions are asking for. So what's the PvdA like in there? It is a very empty remark: come up with a collective agreement. Well, then you'd have to give the Cabinet what you think it should be agreed on, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u217	Yes, a good collective agreement that will benefit the police in the future. There's a lot of extra money in there right now. To be honest, it is something worse than Mr Buma just said: they are sitting at the table and they know what they think of each other. No, they're not at the table at all. Take that step for once. I can only address the cabinet, which of course says: it is the other one. The other says it's the one. I should like to get away from that wisely and say to the cabinet: solve this problem now. If someone in the Chamber has to be mature, then please the cabinet. Then we can talk. Then we'll know what's going on. I've had enough experience with this type of process. You said "not a penny." I'll leave that open. I'm not saying you need money. No, you're not, but I'm leaving it up to the Cabinet to solve the problem. I think the Cabinet can do that very well. And I think if the cabinet didn't realize that by now, it will after this contribution. That thing just needs to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u218	We can go around it a lot, but you mean "more money." The point is that the unions do not want to sit at the table for that money. I understand the unrest, but at the same time I think it is quite fair in itself what is being agreed on the deadlines, national-wide. There is no collective agreement. Mr Samsom's appeal can only be heard if: please cabinet, add a little extra, because the goal is a collective agreement. The unions hear that too and therefore know that they can still get something from Mr Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u219	I've got the unions a little higher than you. They don't just want money. They also want that confidence and that appreciation back. They want agreements about the elderly, about weekend services, about all kinds of things that you and I don't even know the details of. I'd like to leave that at the collective bargaining table. We have been in this situation before. Last year around the care it was the same story: it was stuck, nothing could happen. Then someone was brought in and it was solved. That kind of process can always be done. It is never too late to conclude a good collective agreement, especially if there is a great deal of pay space available, which I would like to give the police and which I would like them to take advantage of quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u220	There is so little confidence in the negotiating capacity of the cabinet, if you now call on the cabinet to conclude a collective agreement. You mention a number of very specific things. So you think there should be some room for that, otherwise you wouldn't call it. In the end, it is matters that have financial consequences. It's another one; it's more often these days. Or you say cabinet, do your thing, and we see it coming back. Or you say, "We need a collective agreement." If that is the purpose, then the question is also what you are prepared to put in to bring it to that end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u221	On the contrary, there is a great deal of confidence in the negotiating capacity of this cabinet. I'm just saying, make the collective agreement. I'll find out what it takes. I really hope that we never hear of it again, except in the form of a new collective agreement, which does the police justice. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the edge of the pit. To reach the edge of that pit was quite a challenge. We're hanging on it now. On the last piece, the cabinet will really have its hands full. But for us in the Lower House, it's actually just starting now, here. Because now that we can look over the edge, it's time for us to look around. We haven't gotten to that for far too long. Cabinet and also Room were busy with the recovery. We have had numerous debates here on almost every single measure. It's kind of like taking the whole crew of a ship at the bottom of the engine room to the engine. But now that engine's working again and we're sailing again. Now the question is, where to? Where do we want to be in 2030? How do we ensure sufficient and good work for everyone? How can we ensure that our economy can still have sufficient energy in 20 years' time? How do we ensure that our children's well-being and prosperity are not put at risk by irreversible climate change? How do we strengthen Europe? How do we bring stability to the regions around Europe? Let us not repeat the mistake of the 1990s. At that time, the relief was that we were finally growing again after the difficult 1980s, so great that the mission seemed to consist only of as much growth as possible. That was too narrow a mission, leading to the apotheosis of the financial crash. This time we need to look further and, above all, wider. Yes, economic growth is important. We've seen what shrinkage does to a society. But that may be the least complicated in the coming time. Setting up an economy that doesn't suddenly get bigger every year, but offers everyone a place and is robust against new, also unpredictable, shocks and creates sustainable prosperity for everyone, is already a lot more important and much more difficult. Integrating this economy into a caring society in which we also find time to look at each other and in which the quality of life is worthwhile for everyone is even more relevant, and much more difficult. To employ and benefit from a more prosperous and united Europe in a more stable region is the most important and, at the same time, the most persistent task. This is how we see again these days, as we immeasurably seek an answer to the flow of refugees. It is an illusion to think that we can resolve all these challenges in one debate, let alone agree on them. In the most important debate of the political season, now that we can really look around for the first time, I would like to give a picture of our Netherlands in about ten years' time. Where do we want to go? What should we prepare for and what choices should we make now? I will start with what is closest to my heart: climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u222	But before we do that, Mr Slob, who has a question, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u223	I would first like to say to Mr Samsom: welcome to the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u224	Partly thanks to your help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u225	If you look around there, you know that things have happened in recent years. Before you look at the future, I would like to look back on the past. For example, if you get above the ground in Groningen, you will see no edges but cracks. Cracking the walls. Over the past year, we have often debated this issue here. The Labour Party has also been very clear: that gas crane must be closed further. You even said: that's very hard, that's a commitment to Groningen. Others have already said it today: we are looking at the budget and we see that it is simply back at 33 billion cubs. What is the Labour Party's ambition for 2016 with regard to gas drilling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u226	It's like she always was. Those drills should be down as far as possible. As far as possible means: to win as much as possible as is necessary to supply us with gas, but no more than that. We made that promise from the beginning. From the beginning she was received with a great deal of scepticism; we have fulfilled that promise and we will continue to deliver on it. That means for the coming year that, now that we're at 30 billion, we're going to have to go further down. I can't believe the cabinet hasn't booked that yet. Besides, you don't have to. That's how gas benefits work: you don't have to book them in that way. The cabinet is simply moving on to the current decision, but in December we will take a new decision. As far as we are concerned, we are going down a little further, if that is possible for the energy supply of this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u227	A little further down. So he's back in the books for 33 billion. Indeed, in December, Minister Kamp will have to take a decision on this for 2016. But I think it's important that you be clear about where you're going with this. Your own spokesperson has always said "30" for this calendar year, but we are now going to 2016. We will have to move forward, that energy transition will have to take place. So we're gonna have to close that gas tap further. Where does the Labour Party want to go when it comes to gas drilling in 2016? I don't think that's a very difficult question. I'm curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u228	Less than 30 billion cubs. If that is possible to continue to provide our society with energy, we want to move towards a gas extraction of less than 30 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u229	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u230	As I said, I start with what concerns me most: climate change. The energy hunger is actually beyond our imagination, but let me try to point it out in this Chamber. If you fill this room all the way up to the ridge, up to the public gallery, I'm sorry about all of you over there filled with black oil, this world civilization burns one whole room per second. And now another one. And now another one. That's how big our energy consumption is. Within 30 years this consumption of fossil fuels will have to be completely redesigned. It has to be sustainable. 30 years, that's one generation, our generation. We have not yet fulfilled this responsibility, not even in the Netherlands, nor, I would say, in the Netherlands. For years, the Dutch energy policy floated around purposelessly. Wind? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Tax advantage? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Oops, grant up! Do you think it's weird that investors didn't dare at some point? In any case, with the highly praised energy agreement, this cabinet has once again laid a solid foundation under energy policy. There is a great deal of money for this, but more is needed. There's a lot more to be done. Those who look around in the Netherlands, in the labs behind the industrial sites, on the campuses of various universities, who see that in this small country it really reeks of the inventors and entrepreneurs who can change this country and the world. As a policy, let us give space and dare to invest. May I give you an example? CarbonOrO, a company that can filter CO from flue gases in an incredibly efficient manner. Now it's being done very bluntly and it's costing way too much energy. It is a technology that remained unused on the shelf at a very large company, but thanks to smart entrepreneurs can still become an affordable and feasible option. This is the first step towards a future in which we capture CO and can use it as a raw material for new materials. If we succeed, Rotterdam will still be the largest port and the largest carbon node in the world in 2030, but completely different. Now it's oil and coal, then it's biomaterial and captured CO, but only if we invest now, if we want to get that technology back to maturity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u231	Hear, hear! But where are the plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u232	Here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u233	In terms of employment, the PvdA already disappoints me with its ambitions, but in this respect I find it really unbelievable. The PvdA said 18% clean energy by 2020. Then the coalition agreement said: no, we only do 16%. Then we got the energy agreement, with 14%. We are now at 5% and in the best calculations we come at 12.5%. So where are the plans for this last full year of the cabinet to make it work? Where in the Tax Plan is the part where the results are adjusted upwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u234	Other parts of the plans are needed for this. The Tax Plan is not going to stimulate the development of solar panels. The Tax Plan isn't gonna bring CarbonOrO a business case. That requires other ideas, and I will explain them to you in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u235	Through the Tax Plan you can achieve what you need. Through innovation funds you can achieve what is necessary. The cabinet does not, however, do either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u236	The latter is incorrect. On the contrary, the cabinet increases the opportunities to invest in innovation. However, I have some additional ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u237	But it is not in the energy agreement that Mr Samsom just got so happy about. I think it's a little late right now. He just said to opposition parties: if you wanted to change anything else, you should have done it before the summer. And then suddenly he comes up with sky-storming ideas, and he also talks about this room full of oil. I got a bad feeling about that:...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u238	That was exactly the point!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u239	... gosh, this, and then another one, and then another one. But it is your cabinet, Mr Samsom, that is not performing. Everyone is so proud of that rattling energy agreement, but the cabinet is not performing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u240	That is why I want better performance to be achieved. By the way, I am very pleased with the energy agreement, and you could also be. For years, the energy policy problem was not that it was too left-handed. It wasn't that it was too right either. The problem with Dutch energy policy was that it was different every time. Your Minister Brinkhorst, you were in that cabinet yourself. You can talk about that. Each time, changes were made. We have now put a stop to this once, so that there is investment security. I do not need to explain to D66 where the revolution for renewable energy comes from. It comes from investments, both public and private. Those entrepreneurs must be given the space, and the certainty that they can earn money in the Netherlands and be in the right place to make their dreams come true. I'd like that for this company, and I have a few more examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u241	I am very curious about Mr Samsom's examples and about this newer, more ambitious agenda. But for now, I really want to stay with the tax system. I believe that Mr Samsom, like my party, believes it is important that we reduce CO emissions and take another step towards the path we are now on. We want to go to -25% CO emissions by 2025. We won't get there if we don't work on the tax system as well. We won't get there if we don't start working on a coal tax. We're not gonna get there if we're gonna tax freight. Then we won't get there. So what I'm wondering is: why doesn't the PvdA, during these General Political Reviews, come up with proposals to make the tax system much greener?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u242	Those proposals were there and they are still there, but now we come to the substantive discussion. Closing a coal power plant is the most crude and least sustainable way to meet the sustainable energy objective. Shutting down a coal power plant doesn't bring a windmill any closer. Closing a coal power plant doesn't develop the geothermal energy we need so badly. The closure of a coal power plant also does not place solar panels on roofs. That's where all our energy needs to go. By the way, we agreed that these coal plants would be shut down. That's good. We could also agree, if necessary, to close the very new coal-fired power stations. It's complicated, but it could be. You can't do that through the Tax Plan. That really requires more drastic measures, Mr Klaver, you know that. But I love to concentrate on that innovation that's really needed. Because the closure of a coal power station will only lead to a coal power station turning harder somewhere in Romania if we do not reduce our energy demand at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u243	Mr Samsom is quite right that closing a coal power plant does not bring new technology any closer. It would also be foolish to leave it at that. But we can do it, and we really need it. Otherwise, I would like to hear from Mr Samsom in what other ways he wants us to achieve the 25% target. Then you will also have to take the step to shut down those coal plants for the next four years. We need to adapt our energy mix to that. That actually needs to be done even faster than it is now. We all know that there is currently an excess capacity in the electricity generated by the Netherlands. There's space there because we deliver to foreign countries. So Mr. Samsom can have a wonderful story about innovation, and I share that, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u244	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u245	...but the other side of the story is that you also have to close down the coal plants. You will now have to take the first step, especially in a tax plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u246	As I said, and Mr Klaver will agree with me: a tax plan will not shut down coal power stations. For that, you really need more drastic measures. Maybe it should be in the near future. I won't open a bottle of wine, because it doesn't cheer me up at all, because it doesn't do anything for the energy issue. What we need to do for our next generation is to create a different energy supply. And hurry up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u247	The challenge we face is twofold. We have to make the switch on the one hand and change our energy mix, with more sun, more wind, geothermal and so on. On the other hand, however, we cannot wait to reduce CO emissions. What Mr Samsom is proposing is taking too long. That is why we need to follow two tracks: and the track of technology and investment in renewable energy, so that we can generate more of it, while at the same time reducing CO emissions. After all, we all know, and Mr Samsom is much better than I do, that generating energy with a coal power plant is inefficient. That is why it is also inefficient to absorb CO from it. Biomass co-incineration is not enough either. So we have to do that. I would love it if Mr Samsom would just say: we will, of course! That's got to happen for the next four years, besides all the other great plans he's got.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u248	Now I was just talking about CarbonOro. It was indeed inefficient to capture CO. Why? 'Cause you're gonna have to reheat those antibiotics to 120 °C. Then you need a new coal power plant for three coal power plants to capture the CO. These guys, they're all guys. Sorry. Sorry. It only needs up to 60°C. That's a breakthrough. If we can achieve this, we can capture not only the CO2 of coal plants, but perhaps even the CO2 of biomass plants; negative CO2 emissions. It is possible that this is what the world needs to be able to stay within its borders, so that there will be no irresponsible climate change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u249	It is clear that some more ladies will have to speak on climate policy, because all of this is very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u250	That was a little bridge to your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u251	Yeah, that's what I thought. If it's just the energy transition, we're not here. I'm sure Mr Samsom agrees with me. We will also have to do something about our behaviour, about our consumption patterns. We have been able to take note of the e-mails that Mr Samsom sends to his constituents on the climate issue. Mr Samsom writes: the judge's ruling does not go far enough for me; we have much more to do. That, of course, is very positive to me. The question is whether Mr Samsom will also argue for fiscal greening, for example for a meat tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u252	Then you'd be about to comply with the court ruling, and I want a lot more than that. Well considered, the judge is rejecting a stamp on his way to the same goal. The 2030 target is not ambitious enough. We all know that by now. That goal needs to be shifted, and that is what will happen in Paris if we succeed in acting together as the EU in relation to, or in this case together with, China and the United States. I am more optimistic than you, Mrs Thieme, because China and the United States have made groundbreaking proposals in recent weeks. There were proposals from both continents and Europe still has to be careful not to fall behind. In Paris, the goal must be set. Of course we have to cut through the stamp post, but we have to go far beyond that. I would like to go over all the measures, but we are not going to make it by measure. What is needed is a revolution in energy supply. I see that revolution can take place. I can see them already taking place in the laboratories, in the back of the industrial sites and in the garage boxes. But we have to make sure that that kind of inventions grow up. The Netherlands can be at the forefront of this. I would like the cabinet to put all its energy into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr Samsom knows with me that meat consumption emits more greenhouse gases than all traffic combined. There is 40% more greenhouse gas because of methane emissions. If we want to reduce the cost of the climate, we must focus on reducing animal protein. Mr Samsom, five years ago, in 2010, you yourself said in the MarieClaire........................................................................................................................................................ 9 billion people who want to eat meat every day, that just doesn't attract spaceship earth. We must eat less meat and therefore the PvdA is in favour of a higher tax on meat. If we leave it to the market, this will not happen." That's what you said, Mr Samsom. Do I just hear you say, in response to my first interruption, that you do indeed have an ear for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u254	I did say that. I still think so. I just haven't been able to convince my own party of that. That at least leaves the meat tax out of the question. That seems very clear to me. I may need you, Mrs Thieme, or myself and my powers of persuasion. I do think that the following statement is correct: the consumption of meat on this globe is a problem. 9 billion or perhaps 12 billion people can live on this globe in great prosperity, at European welfare level, i.e. with energy consumption, water consumption and consumption patterns, except for the consumption of animal proteins. 'Cause that's not gonna work. In that case, we need a new planet. We have not yet found them, and so we must find an alternative very hard. However we turn this around, Mrs Thieme, the meat tax is not going to make any difference. I believe that you know much more about this than I do from your immediate surroundings, and that alternatives are much more important. I'm a sinful vegetarian, I'll say. I love meat incredibly, but I'm helped by the fantastic inventions of the vegetarian butcher. I'm not allowed to advertise, but I think there's one close by in Mrs Thieme's family. I am helped because I find alternatives to the vegetarian butcher that are just as good and much better for the environment. Let us now focus on this technology, which is also Dutch technology. I do not think the meatball tax is going to help us, but I do think that in your living room, Mrs Thieme, we can work even harder on new inventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u255	It is a little strange that Mr Samsom, who believed in the promotion of environmentally harmful products such as meat five years ago, now says that it is not going to help. Then something has changed in mind with Mr Samsom. And if he says that he has not yet convinced his own group, I hope that his flaming speech just now will contribute more to that. I also hope that the taboo on the meat tax, Mr Samsom, has spoken about communist measures in the last climate debate, and that this will be a bit of a pass in the coming period. And I see that as a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u256	That's good. You see, I've become much milder. You're making progress. I wasn't finished. I'm taking you to the Eindhoven start-up Flowid, which is literally starting a revolution in the process industry. It's two super fast-running disks, it sounds so simple, and it's so beautiful, between which every raw material can react to a new product, especially medicines, but also plastics; actually everything. Today's conventional industry still makes these products fossil: crude, in large boilers with lots of water, cooking up, throwing substances together and hoping that things are going well, distillation and maybe you have something. Flowid can do that more accurately, safer and cleaner. It could turn the whole chemical industry upside down. And those guys are ready for the jump. They want to build a factory that makes those reactors, with new jobs, from professor to welder. Who's investing? Soon the Chinese will put the money on the table and we will lose not only the knowledge, but also those jobs. Let me give you one more example: Delft Offshore Turbine. That is perhaps the solution to the problem of offshore wind costs, which is so troubling us. That cost problem is only one thing: the tonne-weight power plant which, for reasons that cannot be explained, has to be at the top. Therefore the pole must be so incredibly thick, the foundation must be so incredibly deep and therefore the costs are so incredibly high. Delft Offshore Turbine came up with something completely different. It uses what is available at sea, namely water. No more electricity, but water pressure that is then converted into electricity somewhere at sea level. Day tons of dynamo! Bye-bye! Welcome, success product from the Netherlands! Who dares? These are only three examples. I would like to fill my entire speaking time with such examples, so enthusiastic I can become. But the Netherlands, if we make the right choices, can really trigger an energy revolution. It's happening incredibly fast. Ten years ago, Mrs Thieme went back five years; ten years ago, I was standing here in the Chamber discussing the introduction of the smart meter to tell about a residential area where solar panels charge the cars when the sun shines and electric cars power the houses when it is dark, where the washing machine or heat pump jumps on when the wind blows and wind power is available in excess and there is a discount for the residents on the power when they have to look at those windmills, automatically offset with the electricity bill. The iPhone didn't exist at the time. No one had heard of Toon, that smart thermostat cabinet that so many people already have. Solar panels were more than 200% more expensive than they are now. The vision of the future of that time, ten years ago, is now before us. The residential areas that do not use energy, but produce, are now being built. Solar panels.... you can try it all at home.... supply power at a lower price than you pay to the energy company. Again, the Netherlands, with its measurement and control technology, with its smart construction companies, can be the leader in the world. Anyone who wants these reflections to become a reality must have the courage to invest. We welcome the venture capital initiatives that have now been announced, but more is needed. We see that the gap between venture capital and public investment is simply too large. Dare capital is too impatient; public investment is too slow. We need targeted investments for the growth of innovation. Not just for those start-ups, but beyond that, as is happening very successfully in Israel at the moment, and I understand that members of the cabinet were there recently. It's tens of millions for a company like Flowid. For offshore winds, it's more than tenfold. My group wants to think about the possibilities of a Dutch innovation bank. That is the next step in our consistent argument over recent years for more investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u257	Yeah, let's think... Meanwhile, in the Netherlands, a judge says to the government: and now it's over, now you're going to keep your own commitments. I must say, as a democrat, that is a rather difficult thing. One of the other powers, for God's sake, is telling us in the separate powers that you are not functioning. It's come to a judge's decision. I also go to work and get great ideas, not only from boys but also from girls. Mr Samsom comes with boys every time, but fortunately there are more women in technology nowadays. But the credibility of all the fine examples that he has mentioned falls completely aside when Mr Samsom does not allow it to be in the Millions Note and now has a policy on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u258	As far as I am concerned, if we can do it quickly with the Dutch investment bank, we will now put it in the amended Millions Note. As far as I'm concerned, it's possible. I believe that this is the best way of doing things, Mr Pechtold, to ensure that the start-ups of today are increased and that they will determine the success of the future. If we could just do that... Mr Pechtold has also made proposals. They were linked to gas extraction and it has been a bit disappointing in recent years. He also continues to disappoint; that's what he's for. So maybe we should come up with something new. Sometimes you have to think with each other about the question: what now, how do we get ahead? That is exactly what I am trying to do in this debate. For the first time in this cabinet period, we do not need to discuss the individual measures, we can do that, but we can also look beyond the borders and beyond the future. We have thought about the future and come up with an idea. I think that's an idea that D66 could or should be close to the heart. We can work on that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u259	But I am talking to Mr Samsom, who is one of the two parties supporting the cabinet. I am also talking about the credibility of saying what can be done here, while the cabinet is now saying about the Urgenda ruling of the judge that it is going to study it for another year. We don't have time to study for a year, because we're in the back. Even at European level, we have been overtaken by countries such as Poland, which still has coal for 100 years. So I would remind Mr Samsom that now is not the time to think about whether to come up with nice ideas, but just to hunt down Minister Kamp a little bit. After all, it will increase gas revenues in its budget for next year, while the majority in Parliament will say debate after debate that it is enough. So I am asking you very specifically: what are we going to do today and tomorrow as progressive parties when it comes to putting forward green motions and amendments together to make sure that there is a bit of a tooth? What are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u260	Mr Pechtold always thinks straight away in motions. That's okay, but I'd rather look at what's behind it. But take that Dutch investment bank. We can write down something about that. Maybe we should. We were talking about gas. This is not estimated by Mr Kamp, which is simply estimated in the general budget. If that's disappointing, it's disappointing. Well, that's too bad. We already know that next year we will continue down with the gas extraction in Groningen. This makes it all the more urgent that we quickly come up with new innovations that are actually growing up and that can provide this country with new energy. That would be so nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u261	I think it's a fantastic idea; very good, let's get to work on it quickly. But I would like Mr Samsom to take us a little bit more into what that looks like. How much capital should be in there? Is the government going to invest in exchange for shares? Will it be loans? I was just put away a little bit, and so was my colleague, Mr Pechtold, of closing down those coal plants, which is not enough and it is about innovation. But it's got to be quick. So could it be a little more concrete, Mr Samsom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u262	Yes, I can, although I don't know if I'll tire out the rest of the country. If you think about amounts, you have to be very brief about the investment deficit in this country in the next ten years. There's 60 billion underinvestment. That's six billion a year. Of course, we do not have to do this on our own. If you organize a smart bank and you also manage to use the Juncker funds that we have made available to it in Europe, you will have a few hundred million in a bank enough. Then comes the challenge Mr Klaver just outlined: how are you going to promote innovation? That's where government representatives come in. That's what I'm counting on. Not so good at, no matter how much they have a beta background and no matter how much they think they know a lot about innovation. How exactly you bring a start-up to maturity, they have incredibly good experiences in Israel, for example. Without wanting to lay down a blueprint here, we can learn from that. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Then we are really moving forward in the new economy, creating money and jobs, and also a sustainable energy supply for our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u263	Sometimes I feel that Mr Samsom has the impression that he is the only one who receives reports when he lectures on how much billion there is actually a shortage of investment in the years to come. But that wasn't the question I asked. This is a general college. If you really put your colleagues away here and if you say about what we are proposing on the closure of coal power stations, it is not about that, but that it is about innovation, I expect something more concrete. I thought we were gonna take care of it this year. How much money is to be made available? In what way are we going to shape it? Then you don't get away with saying: we leave it to bankers or the people who really know it. In the end, we have to make a political choice. And that starts with the question: how much money will be put into such a fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u264	I told you, this is in a few hundred million. Then you have to make sure that you are able to grow up to maturity in accordance with those systematic start-ups. I mentioned Israel as an example because I do not know it better either. However, we are incredibly good at start-ups in this country. We're very good at that, but it's gonna be a little bit of a bunch of start-ups I'm gonna run short on "sick puppy kennel," as it's called in beautiful English. They're sitting there, they're not getting loose and the successful ones have gone. I want to keep them with us, keep the jobs in the Netherlands and keep the innovation in the Netherlands. So I say let's think about that. However, I do not have a written plan here. I believe that this debate is also intended to explore with each other which way we could go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u265	Absolutely. That is what we are trying to do now, but that is why I need to get it concretely. If the outcome of this debate is that Mr Samsom says that there is a need for an investment bank with hundreds of millions in it to get a bit of a dent in a package of butter, and if the proposal is that we are trying to settle it this autumn, that sounds nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u266	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u267	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u268	Mr. Chairman. As I said, the Netherlands could be Europe's innovation delta by 2030. As far as I'm concerned, we're not just inventing this stuff here, but we're making it here. This is therefore a plea for the revival of our manufacturing industry. The manufacturing industry contributes to a generous economy that gives opportunities to everyone, from low to high-skilled. For a machine factory in Emmen the university and HBO engineers design and draw the concepts, the foremen divide the work and welding and milling the boys and girls with an MBO 2-diploma the constructions. Older people learn the profession and take it to a higher level. The boy with a disability finds his place in the logistics department. It is not a romance of the fifties; it is the reality of the twenty-first century. We need a lot more of that, and we can do that. Renewable energy, electric transport, bio-based chemistry, solar panels, offshore energy production: we are very good at it. If we step up our efforts closely, we can make our dream come true. The generation of our parents reached the moon. We must seize the sun! A sustainable manufacturing industry also includes the best possible education. However, I am very concerned about this. I see how well we train our MBOs and how we prepare them for the future. But I also see how soon that future will change again. We proudly put the young people on the doorstep with an MBO 2 diploma, but the employers have already left, on to the next stop: mbo 3 and mbo 4 and hbo. Companies are increasing the lower sport of the ladder. It is long unreachable for mbo 1 and later also for mbo 2. And there they are. Who's giving them a chance? If we want an economy in which everyone has a place, we also need to equip everyone to take those places. This calls for the education of the future. In recent years, politics has been very reluctant with educational reforms. Traumas have contracted. This cabinet is actually the first to have dared to take a few steps in more than ten years. But for the future we need more, much more. In the future, our education is no longer given in colossal buildings, but in small colleges or, as it is called, megapaces and field labs. Much education then moves out of the sterile rooms with their formica tables to the workplace. If so many buildings are no longer needed in the future, there may also be fewer meetings and fewer managements. Perhaps we can do so with fewer managers and drivers and perhaps even with fewer service cars. Perhaps there can be more money for educating people. That would, in our view, be the best response to this ambition of human measure, which we are striving to achieve. Does the Cabinet feel the same way? I look forward to the Minister's announced proposals. More collaboration, lectures, smaller units, less fun studies, more opportunities for flow, learning rights, master companion structures, the schools into the company, the companies into the school: we can't wait a day with tomorrow's MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u269	In the field of education, PvdA and D66 are always close together. I think it's beautiful ideas for the future, but I have a very concrete concern for the coming year. That's the appropriate education. When I see how it's being put together, we're all there for that to happen. I'm afraid it's gonna be a second pgb. I'm afraid we're waiting too long and that's gonna add up the problems. One of the solutions for the appropriate education is more class assistants in primary education. This means that we have to spend some 100 million in this budget; we should not, of course, prescribe it all to the schools again. They can use this money to shape the integration of appropriate education. I'm here to introduce you. Do I have Mr Samsom standing next to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u270	Oh, yeah. I am also going to read these proposals very carefully, because I am also concerned about appropriate education. I'm not going to use any superb stairs, but I think the original idea is very good. I think we agree, too, because that's the way it's supposed to be. It must be able to be organized properly. I don't know exactly where it goes wrong and how we can fix it. You have far-reaching ideas about this. I was just talking about the MBO. Let's assess each other's ideas with a positive impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u271	I will report in my own term, around breakfast, where I have found cover somewhere in the budget. I hope that people will be awake again, because I really think I found some money somewhere in the budget. I hope I don't get the reaction right away: hey...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u272	Then you'd better tell me where you found the pennies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u273	We'll see about that. First, I want to make sure that we both want to arrange the appropriate education. If I immediately come up with a reasonable find, I hope I do not hear: no, we had already destined for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u274	You're almost cute. I might have to say that. I don't know. You seem to know more than I do about the pennies you found.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u275	For the moment, I think it's enough that we're going to help the right education together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u276	I like that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u277	Unfortunately, there is not only a problem with appropriate education, but also with green education. In the coming calendar year, some 30 million savings will be made and this cut will fall at AOCs. They're in a lot of trouble, because they really don't know how to move on after that. Are you also prepared to consider whether we can come up with a solution for green education, as we did last year? This is an educational form where the innovations you mentioned are given a lot of space. A lot of people are trained there to work innovatively with green topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u278	We did it last year. I have to tell you that we have looked at it again this year. We struggled a little with this problem, but we failed. Maybe you have some ideas that will make it work. I'm also looking at that with interest. Those ideas will be at the expense of something else, and that means that we will have to make a painful choice, but that is what we are in politics for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u279	I understand the coalition parties have found room to distribute money. For example, you have reserved something for papa days, toddler care and the like. That is all well and good, but there is an extremely urgent problem on the green education board in the coming year. On all these AOCs, some 27,000 students have now found shelter, but if that austerity really strikes there, next year the doors will be closed to new students. We're not gonna let that happen to each other, are we? So, when it comes to education and what is happening in the budget, let us combine all the creativity and energy we have to see if we can solve this problem together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u280	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u281	I'm kind of wondering how to describe all this beautiful story. Mr Samsom is actually reading out his next election programme. I think that's a little weird. At the end of his speech, he might say: we are going to organise elections very quickly. Otherwise, of course, it is a very strange story, because Mr Samsom and his party are in the cabinet. Many of these proposals could of course have long been converted into cabinet policy. Let me mention one or two. We have spoken on a regular basis and have even written a whole report on a national investment bank. When we proposed it, the Labour Party was against it. So I have no use for this kind of beautiful woolly stories and for views if the Labour Party continues to give up in practice. Let us make it concrete. Let us make a plan today or tomorrow to include the national investment bank. Secondly, Mr Samsom had a very nice story about appropriate education and education. In the same interview in de Volkskrant, his own chairman said that Mrs Bussemaker is working on VVD policy and that he assumes that his group will correct her. Is Mr. Samsom going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u282	That was about the past. I did not agree with my own chairman on this point, by the way. On the other point, Mr Roemer must join the others who have already joined the National Innovation Bank. There is a small difference, but let us not put salt on all snails. The National Investment Bank was about investments, random, which the SP rightly thought were needed now: roads, houses, bridges, whatever. We thought it wiser not to spend it if there was no money. Now we have another challenge. It's about the future and it's about another trial. But I understand that our proposals are already very close together. So let us not put salt on all the snails and see if we can achieve something beautiful together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u283	Always fun. What matters to me is that the Labour Party is now painting beautiful views, while it is responsible for policy. She wants nice education for the future, in which everyone counts. We see that appropriate education has now become tighter education, that there can be no democratisation of education, that teachers complain about full classes, that innovation is lagging behind, and that the Labour Party has in the past voted against an innovation and investment bank. Come on, we're not gonna read out an election program! Come up with proposals with which we can do this and next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u284	I outline the ambition of the Labour Party as we emerge from the recession and want to move on to the future. So it has become so crazy that when a political party sketches a vision of the future during the most important debate of the year, people say: you really need to get back into the nitty-gritty details of today. I'd like to do the same. You always like me by your side; I love that instrument panel. Annuities, referee demand, oh, we can work on it every day. But I also think that politicians, especially in this Chamber, especially during this debate, should simply outline where they want to go. This is my sketch, and I haven't heard any objection to that sketch. You say it's actually very beautiful, but you just think it's weird that I'm coming with it now. Well, I don't think that's weird. I think it's very necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u285	Beautiful, vistas. I'm happy to join you. Pillow in, and we can talk about it for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u286	No, just in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u287	But what I find weird is this. Because you're a coalition party, you have the opportunity to turn those beautiful views into practice. That's the advantage of a coalition party. All those beautiful vistas, and all those opportunities you have, apparently you're gonna let go by keeping a story for 30 years from now. You may, I give it to you. I agree in many areas. But we also have problems to solve now. All these beautiful views we can use today to do it already. I regret that you have left the opportunity with fine plans and that you will consider them in 30 years' time instead of going ahead today. I challenge you: join us. We agree on many of those things. Don't postpone them to another cabinet, but come with it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u288	Many of your colleagues were running forward to make a little use of what I am describing here. It is not for nothing that I have asked for everything: can we achieve this together? That's because I want to make it happen. I can't do that tomorrow. Not all of the ideas, in fact, none of the ideas that are here, will be realized tomorrow. Mr Buma also suffered from this when he made a respectable proposal, which I think is far away in the future. Then everyone shouted, "It's not gonna be here tomorrow." No, but can a politician sketch that? Mr Zijlstra did the same when it came to dealing with refugees and reception in the region. Everyone says we can't do that right now. That's right: it can't be right now. But can politicians once outline where they want to go and then try to take the first steps? That is why I ask the Minister to send us a letter now to start the future of the MBO and the revolution in the MBO. She has done this before with the HBO and has to do so with the National Science Agenda. This minister is busy and doing well. I expect a revolution at that MBO. I also expect the cabinet to respond favourably to the ideas of stimulating innovation and to respond even more favourably to the idea of doing so through a Dutch innovation bank, but perhaps the Minister has a better alternative. That's where I want to go. Together, because you can't get anywhere on your own. Mr. Chairman. In that new and sustainable economy too, or perhaps in that new economy, people want the security of good work. When changes go even faster, there is more need for protection, there is more need for social security. With the help of the polder, we have done the most important repair work in the social agreement. Here too: now that we have come out of the pit, it is time to set the course for the coming years. Let me then outline the course the Labour Party would like to take. The Netherlands must have what we as employees add to value, not be cheaper than the Chinese, not more flexible than the Americans. Anyone who sees fixed contracts as a problem, flex work as the norm and considers social security and workers' rights to be mainly ballast, is going the wrong way towards the future. This goes against our core values of solidarity and solidarity and is economically short-sighted. I say this particularly to my colleagues in the VVD, of course as a friendly opinion. I know: the trade union movement, the collective agreement, the permanent contract: it likes to be dismissed by the right as old-fashioned. I listened amusedly to the roaring lyrics of Mr Zijlstra, for example at his party congress. But is it true? Does anyone really believe that it would destroy jobs if a collective agreement agreed that workers would not have to compete on pay? Is the trade union movement old-fashioned or is it the employers, who prefer to work with day labourers without certainty from homesickness to the nineteenth century? But beware: anyone who thinks that everything can stay the same, is also mistaken. The world is changing faster and faster. A rapidly changing world requires adaptability from all of us, from employers, workers and government. We cannot always protect jobs, but we can always protect workers, by investing extra in them and by improving the exchange of workers by region or sector, so that job losses can quickly lead to new jobs, without traumatic dismissal. That is the labour market of the future. This increases the adaptability of the company, increases the security of the employee and is simply understood by some employers. This morning, VDL hired hundreds of people into permanent employment at once. Why? Because Wim van der Leegte knows that loyal employees are productive, that people with whom you establish a permanent connection also want to invest in you, just like you do in them. That is the future of the labour market that I am so eager for and which I think we can achieve if we do the right things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u289	Moderate wage development is one of the key pillars for job growth. A collective agreement has now been concluded with the CNV and a number of other unions. Does Mr Samsom think that this collective agreement can pass the test of criticism, or does he think, as other unions say, that there should be another collective agreement with more scope?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u290	It's a wage space agreement, not a collective agreement. The agreement gives room for the collective agreement and can pass the test of my criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u291	Perhaps we are not entirely in agreement on the labour market, how it is now and how it will develop in the future. We're not gonna fix that right now. I'm worried about the self-employed guy with no staff. I was shocked by the PvdA election programme, which really came with a kind of fine for those self-employed, but yesterday the cabinet was going to give thezzp'ers clarity. They're gonna pay more taxes? Do they have to have compulsory insurance? On all these questions, these people, who, in the crisis that has taken place since 2008, have themselves provided for a job, have uncertainty. Why does the cabinet only postpone these plans for itself, so that uncertainty persists?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u292	You'll have to ask the cabinet. As far as we are concerned, we have a balanced idea of how your self-employed and employees are getting back into the labour market in a fair way. Partly because of your fierce resistance, every touch of the self-employed deduction turned out to be taboo. I understand that very well, so no bad word about that, but that doesn't mean you can sit on your hands. That is why we have looked on the other side, the workers, especially the workers in the low pay scales. Hence the liv, the... well, investment in low wages. What an abbreviation!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u293	Not a love, but a live!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u294	We have been looking for something that should look like love, but it didn't work! Anyway, we've been watching that. In this way, you can tackle the unfair competition that you see as well, but which you do not want or can do anything about, by looking at those employees and by making it cheaper there. That's just how the caterer gets another job, and that cleaner gets another job, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u295	I think the problem started with the fact that VVD and PvdA wanted to cut down on thatzzp'er for half a billion. Thezzp'er ran into you in the coalition agreement only at the cuts. In the rest of the text you found "zzp" only with "care gravity package," but these are people who do not have a care gravity package, but are self-employed. The cabinet had promised that there would be a vision in which that clarity was given yesterday. I think that we should give thatzzp'er in this newly-enhancing economy that certainty. Can I also see on your behalf, Mr President, that this helps the Cabinet to ask that these plans are in the Chamber at the latest for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs, so that we can also assess them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u296	Yes, we can quickly agree on that date. I think it would be wise to ask. What's in those plans, that's the problem. Many parties cannot agree on this at the moment. You've already started your interruption with that. The Labour Party and D66 largely disagree on the labour market. It doesn't matter at all, but it does mean that solutions are getting closer less quickly. We must be careful that the labour market does not become the mortgage interest rate of the future and that this time you are stuck in your claws with taboos, so that it does not progress. We all have to look forward to this, because we all have to move forward, towards a labour market that provides a place for everyone: for self-employed people, but also for people who simply want a job with the certainty that they still have it tomorrow and that their income is guaranteed for the near future. There are so many people who are not hip, hot and happening, but who just want to do good work for a nice salary and want to get on with it very satisfied! They deserve that job, they deserve that salary, and they definitely deserve that security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u297	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u298	Mr. Chairman. As I said, there are points of departure for these solutions in the Work and Security Act, connecting points for work-to-work arrangements, but also for lifelong learning and so on. However, I would like the cabinet to work on this with the social partners. I would like the idea of learning rights to be much more firmly anchored. Can the Prime Minister promise me that? The main task for the future of work is actually about all the other things that are so important in life besides work: friends, family, children, love, peace, reflection, care. We all know the stress of the combination working and caring. It always means running, but always feeling like you're just too late everywhere. However important work is, being able to pay attention to others is much more important. It is very nice that we are now going to a five-day partner's leave, but is that the end? The children's schemes have been reformed by this cabinet and there will be a lot of extra money for childcare. Leave arrangements are being extended, leave has been modernised, but in the long term there is much more possible for our party, such as the sharing of leave, the saving of leave and the insurance of leave. I would like to ask the cabinet to examine which parts of the so-called Swedish model could have added value for us in the Netherlands, so that the caring society is getting a step closer. This caring society is primarily designed by people themselves, but the government must help. This already starts with more attention in nursing homes, by a different approach to care in the neighbourhood and by giving nurses their profession and our trust back so that they can do their job. We ensure that the question of which care and support someone really needs is no longer answered behind a desk far away, but at home so that we can look people in the eye and see how they live, how they live and what they need. Yes, there is also the question of how many people can organize things like cleaning their house together with the surroundings. But anyone who looks further into the future will see that more is needed. The need for care is rapidly increasing and becoming more diverse. One size fits nobody, here's the motto. In our view, the government makes it possible for people to shape care with each other. We welcome and want to expand this fast-growing trend of healthcare corporations, especially in areas outside the big cities. No more obstructive rules, no more stifling market forces if people want to take care of themselves in a cooperative context. As far as we are concerned, housing corporations should focus much more on family care homes where people who choose to take their parents into their homes can move in together. A complex of these houses can then use the latest home automation and also intensive forms of community care, if necessary. We should also consider the concept of the multigeneration house. This is widespread in Germany and is slowly blowing here. It is a concept that combines care for the elderly and childcare in neighbourhood services across the country. More solidarity, less loneliness, because generations can help each other. That is the direction we want with the economy, with the energy supply, with education, the labour market and care. In recent years, many of us were found at the bottom of the engine room, myself not in the last place. All hands on deck, in Chamber and Cabinet, to get that engine running again. We screwed off a little bit. That work is not yet finished and in the coming year the cabinet will be really busy with the last bolts and nuts to make that machine run smoothly again. But for us, from the Chamber, it's really starting to look forward. In my term, I have just outlined the broad lines of the PvdA's ambitions along the lines of what has been set in motion in recent times, but with more ambition and a mark on the left on the horizon. Anyone who wants to join me, I've heard a few of them are very welcome. Then we can move forward together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u299	One final question. I have not heard much from Mr Samsom about security, particularly internal security. There is a lot of criticism from the Court of Justice budget. What is Mr Samsom's opinion on this? Does he agree that the Justice budget as presented today cannot be accepted and that it should at least be adapted to ensure that the public prosecutor, the police and the judiciary do not fail?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u300	Now, it's not great to quote my colleague Zijlstra. That's because there are a number of risks in it, for example, about passing laws across the street. The cabinet should be aware of that. I understand that the cabinet is unable to register or not to register any defeat, which it does not yet know whether it is going to suffer, and which is already throwing the towel into the ring at this point, I do not think it is worth it, but I would like us to make sure that we are going to do so when we deal with the Justice budget. I assume that we all want this, because I taste great consensus. What are we doing in the Autumn Note and what in the Spring Note if those risks do indeed manifest themselves on the way? We have just talked about the reform of the judiciary and the court in the region. I have already said that we need to take more time to come up with a good plan with more support, which can actually sink down in the region. That's such a risk and we can talk about it. However, I am only partly an expert in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u301	I find it interesting that Mr Samsom regards his own proposal for postponement as one of the risks. You can also see it as one of the opportunities to keep those courts standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u302	I think that the fact that it is now standing there, while the whole region is against it and the Council itself is shocked by the justice system, is an example of a risk. We need a better ending to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u303	Mr Samsom says: with the Justice budget. That is often already late, because then we have already had the General Financial Reviews. Then that crappy Justice budget is on its own. Does Mr Samsom not agree with me that, at the end of these two days, we should have clarity as to whether the cabinet is going to find a majority vote, and therefore also the coalition parties, that this budget for justice can be accepted or that we need to do something about it? I'm actually hearing from both of you, if I may call the coalition partners that way, it can't be done this way. Well, then we must really change that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u304	This is certainly not necessary now, but possibly in the General Financial Reviews. I asked my always relaxed financial spokesman once. He thought it could be arranged well with the Justice budget. Maybe we can convince each other that it really has to be sooner, but then we'll see. There's plenty of time for that. I am particularly curious about tomorrow's answer, how the cabinet perceives and wishes to deal with these risks. If we do not like that answer, we will propose other alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u305	Mr Samsom started and ended his contribution with the well in which VVD and PvdA found each other after the last elections, three years ago. At that time, Mr Samsom said that the coalition with the VVD was preferably for eight years. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u306	No, I said the job was for eight years, but I'm afraid that's even an understatement. The work that we have started is for perhaps more than eight years. Look at the major reforms, for example in healthcare. We need to change a whole system. I just talked about the power supply. It's definitely over four years and maybe over eight years. However, that is about the work and not about the coalition, because that is what voters are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u307	I find that interesting, even in the light of recent weeks. Of course there is work; every cabinet has work. If you stand still, you'll fall over. Mr Samsom has devoted his entire contribution to that well in which one found one another and to how they scribble from it. When this coalition was formed, the VVD and the PvdA stated: this coalition sits ideally eight years. Is that still true?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u308	That was not literally said, and that is not the case either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u309	Okay. In that light, it is useful, also for us, to know why the Prime Minister no longer calls it an end in itself to this coalition the ride...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u310	That was about finishing the ride.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u311	Mr. Pechtold, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u312	Thank you. The Prime Minister says this week that finishing the journey is no longer an end in itself. I also sometimes read an interview with a PvdAer about everything, about profiling in relation to each other. The Prime Minister said again yesterday: you'll see, it's getting more and more apart. My question is whether this can continue for a year and a half, with a shaky majority here and a minority in the First Chamber, to assess the power of the cabinet. I also hear something new now, because that is clearly different than three years ago: cooperation with the VVD, it was nice that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u313	It still is, although I don't know if the adjective "fun" is always as striking. It is important, it is necessary and we do it with conviction, because we think that the Netherlands is getting better. We are now seeing the results of this. I have just said that this cabinet will be able to say in the coming year I could have said that for the next year and a half, in which we will have to assist or adjust it once in a while, there is still a lot of pressure in that engine room. That does not relieve us of the duty to look ahead as well. Then we draw a different dot on the horizon than the VVD. That was also the case for the previous elections. It's been a reminder to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u314	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u315	Shoulder to shoulder we go through this period. Or in the analogy of that pit: you help each other once in a while...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u316	Down the well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u317	...to get out. And now we're out. By the way, you have also helped. It also gave you dirty hands and sore fingers. Now it's time to lift the rest of the Netherlands out. That's gonna take at least a year and a half. In the meantime, we'll see what we want after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u318	It's nice to get a view. There are a lot of interesting things in that; I would like to talk to you about that. In many areas, we may find each other. However, that does not relieve you of what you need to do now. We are talking about next year's budget, and after three years, you have reached an agreement. Then you must have seen the mess you left behind. Let's take care of it. 1 million people are currently unable to pay care contributions. A survey of general practitioners today shows that 80% of general practitioners cannot guarantee care for elderly people living at home. We've seen that 65,000 people in care have lost their jobs. People from nursing homes and nursing homes are screaming murder and fire that they are going to find the changes far too fast and that they can't make it happen. You can't care about that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u319	It does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u320	Don't you do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u321	I think this is the first interruption to come back at the end. It's okay. It's okay. You spoke of the general practitioners. That is indeed an important point. It's not for nothing that we've invested so much in community care. That first line is heartfelt to us. That includes the general practitioner. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is not done with this either. There are ideas in the government agreement on a different way of financing the first line, on less market operation, on more cooperation, and on less payment per operation and more on the basis of the population itself. It is therefore called "population benefit" with a word from The Hague. We still have to be able to shape that. I hope, even more so, that in the next year and a half, this will be possible. It's gonna happen before the neighborhood care. As far as I am concerned, it is exactly the same for the general practitioners and we will soon have a first line with less market forces, less pay per operation and more population benefit. This brings an ideal of ours one step closer, and I also hope an ideal of yours. That's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u322	I wish. I have heard the Prime Minister say that we need more market forces in healthcare. That was a literal quote from the Prime Minister. We see what's happened in the care department for the past three years. The personal risk for people is priceless, premiums have gone up, hospital costs have gone down, the overhead in hospital care is much bigger than in the neighbouring countries, nursing homes are having a hard time, nursing homes are being closed down, 65,000 jobs are gone into care. And you'll get no further than we've taken a few steps in the right direction. We're not going in the right direction at all. You have tried a number of ideals, and the effects are dramatically flawed. You refuse to fix it, you refuse to add to it, and you refuse to open it to the 800,000 people who signed it, saying: sorry, but we have to correct it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u323	Where that is needed, we have done so in recent years. It is not for nothing that 400 million more went there a few years ago and now almost 200 million more goes there again. By the way, if you quote the Prime Minister, you must quote him literally, but you can fight him tomorrow. He's man enough for that. Much more importantly, I do not want to reverse what we have done in the neighbourhood nursing service. I do not want to reverse what we are going to do with the general practitioners to ensure that there is indeed more cooperation in the first line and, as far as I am concerned, in the zero line, as it is called in policy jargon, namely prevention. I want to invest a lot more in prevention. For that, you need a different funding model, because that does not pay itself back. That's what we're aiming for. We are now taking a first step in that direction. That's far from finished. The coalition agreement is not our electoral programme, nor will it be our next election programme. That's more like the sketch I just gave here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u324	It really does affect credibility: keeping nice stories but the practice is at odds. It's very nice if you leak five times now that 200 million are going to the nursing homes. You'd almost think, "Hey, there's $1 billion going to the nursing homes." But it was the same leak five times, so that's too bad. You say this when you know that in 2017 250 million savings will be made on the nursing homes. So nursing homes are not going to invest structurally with that extra 200 million, knowing that the year after that 250 million will be cut. So wake up, get out of the ground, look around and help us make a caring care that is really close to the people. You're not doing that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u325	That cut is therefore not included in this budget but is foreseen in the 2017 budget. Then, as always, again this year, we will see what extra is needed. So far, the answer to that question has been "yes" twice; maybe it is three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u326	I have a very short question. Mr Buma had a very good suggestion for the cabinet to decouple the 5 billion package from the proposal now being made to tackle the capital efficiency levy. Would you also like to give that suggestion to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u327	We had this interruption in another context before. I have experience that we will not get there if I take up the choreography of legislative proposals. I'd really rather leave that to the cabinet. Obviously, you want to know what I think. I'm for both parts, passionate for both parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u328	That's clear. It was just a very short question. So, as far as you're concerned, it's best to split up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u329	As far as we're concerned, we can do it together. That's really up to the cabinet. I sometimes have less fun of it, but now I have some fun that I didn't sit there, in box-K, but just sit here in the benches. Then I don't have to worry about things like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u330	We'll give you all that fun. I asked a very simple question: what do you think? But you don't really care. I thought this was very important to the PvdA. You've negotiated this with all your heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u331	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u332	But it doesn't matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u333	I want the route most likely to succeed. I am passionate about both proposals. But we're not gonna have a discussion about trials here, are we? I've just tried to do it another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u334	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking at the clock. It's 7:15. I think it's time for dinner break. I don't want an hour and a half dinner break, because it'll be very late tonight. We're having dinner for one hour. I hope that, unlike lunch, you will give those who take part in the debate the opportunity to order their dinner first. Then we can actually start in an hour. Mr Wilders, you have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u335	It is not because I am the next speaker, but after dinner break I should like to say that an extensive debate, with a lot of room for debate, is nice and that everyone also loves it, but yes, after four speakers finish at 7.15 p.m. I do not think it is the intention of the first day of the General Political Reviews either. As far as I'm concerned, it should be a little tighter in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u336	Thank you for this constructive remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, I realize, together with all of you, that this is a long debate and that there will be many more speakers, but there will be important issues. It seems sensible to me that we should proceed with this debate in the same, careful manner as we have done so far. I give the floor to Mr Wilders of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u338	Madam President. It is at a dramatic and decisive moment in our history that I address you. The Netherlands is facing an Islamic migration. Hundreds of thousands of migrants flow to Europe. And this is just the beginning. There's more coming every day. According to the United Nations, it's millions and millions. A few hours ago, on the Hungarian-Serbian border, the police were stormed by "Allahoe akbar" screaming scum that injured twenty Hungarian agents in service with bottles, rods and sticks. That's the practice. And among all these asylum seekers, Islamic State smuggles thousands of terrorists into Europe. That's what they say. That's what the head of Eurojust says. That's what a Lebanese minister said this week. 2 out of every 100 Syrian migrants coming to Europe, said that minister, are ISIS fighters, terrorists. And that is what we need to talk about here today: the ticking time bomb that threatens us here in the Netherlands. It was 3,100 asylum seekers last week. Let the Minister from Lebanon be right, then we have not only brought in 3,100 asylum seekers, but then there are 60 terrorists. In a week. We must make the Netherlands safe again. That's our job, isn't it? That is why we were elected by our constituents. That is our responsibility. We must protect our country from an attack. We need to make sure that people are safe on the train to work tomorrow. That people can send their daughters safely across the street to school. This time will prove to be a crucial moment in our existence. And one thing is already clear. The Dutch leadership is on the wrong side of history. By not stopping the asylum system and not closing the borders, the interests of the Netherlands are being squandered. Our freedom, our security and our identity are being compromised. The survival of our beautiful country is being put at risk. Trust in democracy is undermined, yet it is crystal clear what the people want. The Netherlands does not want billions for tens of thousands of asylum seekers. The Netherlands does not want further Islamization of the Netherlands. The Netherlands does not want to wait for years for a house while newcomers are given priority. The Netherlands does not want cuts in care for the elderly while half of Africa gets our money. The Netherlands does not want open borders. And the Netherlands also does not want mad, aggressive and well-trained Syrians to come back to the Netherlands. And yet, all of that still happens. Whether we want it or not, it happens. The people who make all these decisions no longer represent the Netherlands. Dutch democracy is being made a joke. The gap between the people at home and the political elite here in this Chamber has never been so great. In the country there is despair, anger. And I understand that desperation. I share that anger. 'Cause it's crazy to go crazy, isn't it? Asylum seekers get free homes and also a priority. They can go to the dentist for free. They can go to the doctor for free. They get free hearing aids and free glasses. They get, if they want, even free couples therapy, free education, free legal aid and also living money. And if that's not enough, they can go to football for free. And look how Dutch people are treated. After this cabinet first cut our country for tens of billions and increased taxes, citizens are now getting a lousy tip of a few billion back. For care of the elderly, there is a bummer after it has been demolished in recent years. Madam President, where asylum seekers get everything for free, almost 40% of our pensioners are going down next year. My heart bleeds when I see the wrong choices this cabinet makes. My heart bleeds when I see how it is with those people, the elderly of the Netherlands. Every day we get emails from people who need our help, but are left to their fate. They do not understand why the cabinet gives asylum seekers a little free, but they do not. I agree with them. It can't, it can't, it's embarrassing. People are asking, "Why is that? Why are these wrong choices being made? That is because, Madam President, this cabinet, as it is in trade union K, prefers to spend our money on foreign countries and foreigners than on the Netherlands and the Dutch. Tax money is our biggest export product these days and everyone wants it. This budget is mainly a celebration budget for foreign countries. Billions, billions are spent on Brussels, on development aid, on asylum seekers and on Greece. Of course, we should all have spent these billions in the Netherlands on care for the elderly, on really lower taxes and on a serious improvement in purchasing power. Spend the money here, in our country, is of course very good. That would mean more money for our shopkeepers, our agents, our nurses and the truck drivers. That's good for our economy. That's good for the jobs. That's a good thing to get less unemployment. The cabinet shows off all sorts of figures, with percent here and percent there. It's all right, because what's it all worth anyway? What are all these pluses and minuses worth, all these figures, all these notes and all these reports, if we have lost the Netherlands immediately because of the invasion that is going on right now? Millions, millions of Syrians, Iraqis, Eritreans, Afghans and North Africans are here to try their luck. What's it all worth, Madam President? What is it worth if hundreds of terrorists walk around the streets undisturbed, when our schools are flooded with people who don't speak our language, when Dutch women and girls feel unsafe by the testosterone bombs that Prime Minister Rutte imports? Two out of three, yes two out of three people currently in the Netherlands asylum centres, are men. The largest group, Madam President, are young men between 18 and 29 years old. What is it all worth if crime and street terror explode and if our welfare state is disrupted by the billions of euros that are going to cost this extra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u339	I do not understand why a man between 18 and 29 years of age is by definition a rapist, because that is what Mr Wilders is suggesting. I have another question for him. Some European politicians distinguish between refugees who are Muslims and refugees who, for example, are Christians and people who flee because of their orientation. I do not hear Mr Wilders making a distinction. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u340	99% are people from Islamic countries, are Muslims. The numbers are so large that I do not think we can allow anyone in the Netherlands anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u341	That's clear. Some European politicians of Mr Wilders' signature still make that distinction. Moreover, I consider that to be an unjustified distinction. Mr Wilders says: if you are on the run as a Christian or if you are on the run because of your homosexuality, you stay in the caliphate of ISIS and find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u342	We are no longer able to deal with asylum seekers in the Netherlands at the moment. I am glad that Mr Pechtold is asking me this question. When we talked about this last Thursday, we talked about 1,800 asylum seekers a week. I remember very well that Mr Pechtold got up and walked to the interrupting microphone. He said: Wilders, what are you doing weird again, there are also weeks in the Netherlands that there are only 300 asylum seekers coming. Now, Mr President-in-Office, instead of the 1800, there are now 3,100 asylum seekers. The numbers almost doubled in three days. This means that we cannot allow any asylum seekers here anymore. If there is a Christian asylum seeker, fortunately there are also countries, even in Eastern Europe, who say exactly what Mr Pechtold says and who want to take them in. I understand that very well. Then let them go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u343	In any case, I am pleased that after eight or nine years of debate, Mr Wilders is interested in facts and figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u344	More than you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u345	That will certainly improve the quality of the debate in the future. But it's very clear, and that's why I asked that question: even if you're a Christian, even if you're gay, if you're in Syria or Iraq and ISIS is after you, you don't have to count on us here in the Netherlands. Clear, but I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u346	My answer was and is that 99% of the asylum seekers who come here to begin with are, in many cases, not asylum seekers and are, for the rest, Muslims. They all come from Islamic countries. That one or half percent, perhaps even a promille, that this is not, must of course be taken up, but they can be perfectly safely collected in the countries of Eastern Europe that Mr Pechtold himself mentioned. I think it is perfectly understandable that these countries say that they only want to accept Christians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u347	When we look back at Dutch history, we see that there have always been times when many refugees came to the Netherlands. During World War I, people came to us. In the 1930s, when it came to the Jewish refugees, the Netherlands still had an attitude of let them stay in Germany as much as possible. That wasn't a very good time. We saw in the 1950s, for example, that Hungarian refugees came to the Netherlands. There are always times in history when people run away and try to find a place in another place in the world. Can Mr Wilders imagine situations where the Netherlands does say: come in, we provide a safe place because the place where you come from is not safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u348	I don't talk about situations that don't exist. You'll have to do it yourself. I'm responding to the situation that exists right now. I'm telling you, we can't handle it. I also say that when you talk about refugees, you are wrong most of the time. They're not refugees. And if they are already refugees, they were already safe when they went from Syria to Turkey. We had that debate last week. If you do not find Turkey safe, they were safe when they went to Greece. Those are all safe countries. The so-called refugees have passed about eight safe countries from Syria to reach the Netherlands. Then you are not a political refugee, then it is not about your safety, but then you are an economic refugee, then you want to use our welfare state and our prosperity or whatever. Your premise is that they are all refugees is not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u349	I asked Mr Wilders if he could imagine situations that people would be admitted. Let me just give you an example. At the moment there is a situation in the Netherlands of a girl from Uzbekistan who has to go back and is Christian. She says that country is incredibly dangerous for Christians. When we look at the ranking of Open Doors, which always keeps track of where Christian persecution takes place, the country is indeed at the top of countries that persecute Christians. Is that a situation where you say that a girl like that can stay? Or do you say, "Get out, you're not a fugitive"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u350	Even though the honourable Member mentions 100 more examples, I do not go into the subject of cases. You can use the trick by extracting one or two examples that are incredibly pathetic and then ask: what do you think? My point is that we cannot allow anyone in the Netherlands anymore. We can't handle it culturally. We can't handle it financially. The Netherlands doesn't want it. We shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u351	I always wonder where Mr Wilders gets the pretence that he speaks on behalf of the whole of the Netherlands. You express the feelings of a part of the Netherlands, but many people are in it differently. So it seems to me that it is a pleasure to make that distinction in debates as well. But you walk away from the question of when do you want to give space to people? You're saying I'm not going into fictional situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u352	No, I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u353	The example I gave was a concrete situation of a girl who is being sent away if we are not careful and whose life is in danger. You speak such harsh words about people and generalize such a large group in such a horrible way that you may be asked: when then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u354	At least not now. We have 3,100 asylum seekers per week in the Netherlands. If that continues, it's 150,000 a year. That costs billions. It's an Islamic invasion, flooding our country. By taking an example and saying 'what a terrible thing it is' you are the demagogue and not me. We can't and we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u355	It is Mr Wilders who always warns of the horrors of Islam and of Sharia law. What's the point? Millions of people are fleeing the horrors of the Islamic State. They are actually fleeing the horrors of Islam that Mr Wilders warns of. Those people are looking for a safe haven. If you warn about that, how can you keep saying that no one is welcome here, generalize everyone and actually say that is what Mr Wilders literally said that we should do everything for foreigners and do it only for our people. In fact, he said everything that is foreign, which I think is beginning to exclude and ignore the Belgian border in Essen. I really don't get it. Give me a glimpse of your mind, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u356	If you had listened carefully, you could have found the answer a hundred times, so it is not a very smart question. For starters, these aren't all refugees. If they were refugees who, in your opinion, fled the Islamic State, they were safe in Turkey, they were safe in Greece, they were safe in Serbia, they were safe in Hungary, they were safe in Austria and then they were safe in Germany. Country eight is the Netherlands. So, yeah, they're not welcome here. Those so-called pathetic refugees of yours, if they are, have come through eight safe countries. You may be smiling like a sheep, but that's the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u357	Those refugees I find so pathetic... Yes, it is not pathetic at all if children do not receive education or have no access to food. Because that's what we're talking about, Mr Wilders. They are people who have been sheltered in refugee camps in the region. They have no shelter, no food, and no food. They flow to countries where the flows of refugees are no longer manageable and where people cannot build a future. I stand by it: these are people fleeing the Islamic State. They flee from all the horrors you warn them of. If you continue to categorically exclude everyone and do not want to take the trouble to see why someone is fleeing, whether someone is indeed a refugee and whether we should give them shelter, if you refuse to do so, I have only one word to say: xenophobic. Then you're afraid of everything that comes from outside, and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u358	It does not come out very well, but I will reply to your comment; let me try. If we were to include everyone who meets your criteria in the Netherlands, namely insufficient food and education, we could bring all of Africa to the Netherlands. Then we can bring millions of people here. If that is the criterion for a refugee, then we can lift the Netherlands and immediately replace our people with Arabs and GroenLinksers. We don't want that. We do not want our country to be bombarded by Arabs and Green Left people. We don't want that. Besides, I told you they're not refugees. If they were refugees, they could have stayed in safe Greece or safe Austria. They'll be safe there. If you travel from those safe countries to the Netherlands, it's not about security, it's about our benefits. That's what it's all about!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u359	I'm really trying to be polite, Mr. Wilders. You're giving me a hard time, but I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u360	Sure, "xenophobic" is very polite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u361	To be perfectly honest, I thought that was a fairly factual observation. If Mr Wilders categorically excludes everything that comes from outside, and does not want to take the trouble to see what people's motives are for coming here, I can only conclude that everything that is strange is being dismissed by Mr Wilders and that he says: stay away. Mr Wilders should not do that. He's one of the leaders of this country. We're facing very big challenges. More and more people are coming here, whether Mr Wilders wants to or not. We must ensure that the country's relations remain good. The police must show courage and run for the troops to indicate that we must live together here. We shouldn't put everyone away like they're all profiteers and terrorists. I expected more from Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u362	The biggest task left to the Dutch is to resist people like Mr. Klaver. I am talking about his bullshit, his nonsense and the impossibility of getting anyone who is hungry and who has no education to the Netherlands. Again, we should bring tens of millions of people to the Netherlands tomorrow if that is the criterion for refugees. It's total bullshit. Then we can lift our country tomorrow. I dare say that nobody in the Netherlands wants that, except a few GroenLinksers. When we want a better life for the people of Africa, something everyone wants, there is also a responsibility for the region itself. I've said that before. It is full of rich countries in the region: from Qatar to the Emirates to Saudi Arabia. Those countries hardly do anything or do nothing at all. Those are the countries that can help these people, who have the money, who have the country, who have the culture and who speak the language. It's their responsibility and not ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u363	I would like to remind Mr Wilders that much is already being done in the region. The neighbouring countries of Syria, such as Iraq, Turkey, Lebanon and Jordan, absorb hundreds of thousands to millions of people. However, there is one country in the same region that does not receive refugees. Does Mr Wilders know which country that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u364	I do not participate in quizes, but knowing Mr Kuzu, he will want to make a joke about Israel. But will you give me the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u365	Mr Wilders is right. It is indeed the land of Israel, a prosperous, rich country. It's a country in the region. It therefore meets all the criteria mentioned here by Mr Wilders in the last period. We and the whole of the Netherlands know that Mr Wilders has good contacts with Netanyahu and Lieberman. Is he willing to make a phone call to Netanyahu and Lieberman according to his own criteria, his own consistency, and ask them to contribute to the current flow of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u366	No, because my point is that the countries in the region that share the culture with the Syrian refugees, who share the language with the refugees and who share religion or ideology with the refugees, must play a part. I'm not talking about the Jewish state of Israel. I am talking about the Arab, Islamic countries around it. It's their people that have to take the Syrians and pay for it. I can't reach out to those rock-rich Gulf States, where the police are driving around in Lamborghini's, taking 137 refugees. It's a disgrace, it's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u367	Now Mr Wilders is falling into the basket. Mr Wilders talks about the fact that culture should not be imported. We are talking about the same region where many are the same customs and religion. That's right. But according to Mr Wilders, they're all happiness seekers first, then they're people who want to benefit from our social services and then they're all terrorists again. It just doesn't fit in the Netherlands. Mr Wilders is talking about representatives of the people who should do something. What Mr Wilders should do is stop sowing hatred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u368	All right, let's face it. The Netherlands is becoming more unsafe, poorer and, above all, less Netherlands because of the Islamic asylum system that is now raging about our country. And this coalition, this coalition of VVD and Party of Labour, has barely 30 seats left in the polls, but makes decisions that will still be palpable about generations. That's unheard of. She's facilitating an Islamic invasion. She imports thousands and thousands of Muslims who can and will all return to their families, and then return to their families. 40 years of failed integration and the elites have still not learned anything from it. Pim Fortuyn already spoke of mopping with the crane open and this cabinet turns all fire hoses and sprinkler systems open at the same time. I told you, every asylum seeker costs us €36,000 a year, all spent on people who have never contributed a penny. More than half, more than half of the people from Syria, Somalia and Iraq in the Netherlands are already on welfare benefits, just like one in three Moroccans. So that promises something. The Netherlands was not invented to be the mother Teresa of the whole world. Our country wasn't founded as a hangout for millions of import Islamites. We're not here for immigrants looking for iPads and All Stars. We are there for the Dutch who unfortunately now have to wait for an eternity for example a social rental house. And why? Because asylum seekers are given priority. The open borders also threaten our identity, the survival of the Netherlands. And open borders don't bring prosperity. Opening the borders is as stupid as leaving your door open in The Hague's Schilderswijk. Your house will be empty in the morning. That is reality and open borders also threaten our security.I told you: every day, the Islamic State sends terrorists our way. Hundreds! Hundreds of them are already here. How is it possible that we don't close the borders? How is it possible for the Prime Minister to wait one more second to make the Netherlands safe? How many, I ask the Prime Minister, potential terrorists are already in the Dutch asylum seekers' centres, ready to strike, ready for their 72 virgins? In practice, the pink dream of free movement of people and goods is the nightmare of the free movement of weapons, criminals and jihadists. Terrorists with kalashnikovs are on the train looking for unbelievers to kill. Uncontrolled. Uninhibited. And the security services are failing. The European governments are failing, because there is no greater taboo than talking about closing the borders, whereas that is the only thing that is needed in the short term. But nobody wants it except the PVV. Even the liberals of the VVD now call closing the borders a dream image. As a result, the borders remain wide open and a bloody attack in our country is a matter of time. It's not the question if, it's the question when and where. Expensive time is wasted by the Prime Minister. Seconds are ticking away, Mr. Rutte. Lives are at stake. And the viewers here in this room are instantly co-responsible for blood flowing in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u369	Mr President, this is below all levels, but I would like to ask Mr Wilders whether he realizes what his statements here in the House of Representatives are doing with the country. Doesn't he think he's inciting hatred? Doesn't he just think he hates sowing here in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u370	And what do you think that's my answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u371	And for 11 years that's been happening!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u372	What do you think my answer is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u373	I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u374	Okay, Mr. Chairman. The only thing the cabinet comes up with are mobile brigades that won't stop an asylum seeker. In fact, asylum seekers are brought to the registration centre and sometimes even picked up or brought there by bus. So they're not mobile welcoming committees, they're asylum taxi centres. That's what this cabinet does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u375	I understand, of course, that Mr Wilders does not have the courage to answer that, because then he will fall in the basket. But I'll give him a hand. Mr Wilders' statements attacked 40% of the mosques in the Netherlands. If Mr Wilders says he doesn't take responsibility for that... I can already hear them blèren in box X of xenophobes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u376	Mr. Kuzu...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u377	Then they say, Mr. Chairman, I'll just read an e-mail for...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u378	Mr Kuzu, I would like you to ask a question and not make all kinds of accusations about colleagues who are not taking part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u379	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u380	So would you like to ask your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u381	Mr President, did I mention anyone other than the one who is now behind the speaker's seat?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u382	You'll have to read that back in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u383	Fine. An email from the PVV supporters, what they say about Muslims: that they all have to get lost, that they all have to be reduced and that the PVV will overcome. Here's a picture; I'll show it to the people there, because they're mooing right now. A david star, a swastika and "Geert Wilders" at a mosque in Veenendaal. Will Mr Wilders still claim that he is not sowing hatred in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u384	Mr President, you know the answer. I'm not gonna go into all that bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u385	I can only think of one answer, and that answer is yes. Mr Wilders has been calling this out of the PVV for 11 years, and that should stop at some point. Mr Wilders also says: if something happens in the Netherlands, then Rutte has blood on his hands. I say to Mr Wilders: if there is an attack on an asylum-seekers' centre, as has happened in Germany in recent weeks, then you have blood on your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u386	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Our boundaries aren't at all closed with those mobile fake teams, but they're a big hole cheese that anyone can just go through. Meanwhile, in Syria, Iraq and Libya, millions of people are ready to come to Europe. They're moving into our country massively. But the Islamic countries, as I said in an interrupting debate, do not give at home. Qatar catches up to 133 people. For comparison: in Drenthe lies the small village of Orange. Orange picks up 700 people. I have a very simple question for this cabinet. Why does a village of 140 people in the Netherlands have to accommodate more asylum seekers than an extremely rich Gulf State like Qatar? It's crazy. 3,100 asylum seekers per week. If that goes on for a year, we're talking about 150,000 people. That is the amount of €36,000 each asylum seeker costs, which brings me to EUR 5 billion. If everyone makes another partner appear through family formation and family reunification, we are talking about EUR 10 billion a year that we in the Netherlands have lost to the asylum system. I wonder, how are we supposed to pay for that? Who's gonna pay for that? Is the Dutchman gonna pay for that again? Where does the Cabinet intend to place all these people? Already, the COA needs three new asylum seekers' centres per week. In every village, in every city with an asylum centre, we see the consequences. May I give you some examples? In Orange, the village I mentioned earlier, the import people don't want to pay off a woman behind the counter. Allah won't let you do that, so there's a man behind the register now. There was a big fight in the azc in Old Pekela. There was a stabbing at the asylum seekers center in Winterswijk, there were threatened Christians in the asylum seekers center in Gilze and Rijen. At the asylum seekers' centre in Budel: fights against asylum seekers with iron bars. We saw child abuse at the asylum seekers' centre in Bellingwolde. And the Secretary of State for Justice, Mr Dijkhoff, says: there are many more. He's looking for tough mayors who want to damage every city, every village, every neighborhood even more. Already, the Netherlands is being filled with asylum seekers' centres. The Dutch who want to remodel their homes will have to wait months for them to get a permit from the municipality, but asylum seekers can be put right through all the destination plans within no time. Dozens of municipalities in the Netherlands already have an asylum seekers' centre and the situation is incredibly worse. There's actually been a massive invasion. Thousands of Dutch people not only have asylum seekers, but probably also terrorists in their backyard. The citizens of all these municipalities are at risk. We have to stand up for these people here. It's an attack on the safety of thousands of families. That is why I am going to list all the places where asylum seekers are already located one by one. Alkmaar, Almelo, Almere, Amersfoort, Apeldoorn, Arnhem, Assen, Azelo, Baaksem, Bellingwolde, Bergen aan Zee, Breda, Budel, Budel-Dorplein, Burgum, Delfzijl, Den Helder, Doetinchem, Drachten, Dronten, Echt...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u387	Bingo!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u388	Eindhoven, Emmen, Gilze, Goes, Grave, Gulpen-Wittem, Heerhugowaard, Heerlen, Hoogeveen, Katwijk, Leersum, Luttelgeest, Maastricht, Middelburg, Musselkanaal, Naaldwijk, Nijmegen, Oirschot, Ommen, Ootmarsum, Oranje, Oss, Overberg, Overloon, Rosmalen, Schalkhaar, Sint Annaparochie, Sweikhuizen, Ter Apel, Utrecht, Veenhuizen, Velp, Venlo, Vledder, Wageningen, Weert, Winterswijk, Zaanstad, Zeist, Zweeloo and Zwolle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u389	And we all thank them...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u390	It's gonna be a great night, 'cause I still have a list. This is a list of municipalities that are in danger of obtaining an asylum-seekers' centre. That list is classified. The COA, the body that deals with this issue, has asked which municipalities they are talking to. The COA refuses to give that list. The COA wants to keep that list under wraps. The COA does not want the inhabitants of the Netherlands, the people in the neighbourhoods, villages and cities, to know that their municipality is talking to the COA. We have called all the municipalities in the Netherlands as PVV in recent days. We have found out who the COA is talking to, because we believe that people have the right to know what is happening and because we think that the Netherlands should know how much worse it is going to be. I hope the Prime Minister has the courtesy to listen to this list instead of playing with his phone. People are allowed to shout "bingo" in the room. They can do that. Laugh with the interests of the Netherlands! The cabinet puts millions of Dutch people at risk and I am proud to stand up for those people, whatever jokes you make and whatever applause you give. Here's the list, Mr. Chairman. Here is the list of municipalities preparing the reception of asylum seekers, who are talking to the COA about the reception or who are self-inventing where a reception can be carried out. I'm going to read these congregations one by one now. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Aalburg, Aalsmeer, Achtkarspelen, Amstelveen, Amsterdam, Baarn, Baarlo, Barneveld, Beemster, Bergen op Zoom, Beuningen, Blaricum, Borger-Odoorn, Borsele, Boxtel, Bunnik, Buren, Bussum, Castricum, Cuijk, Culemborg, Dalfsen, Den Haag, Diemen, Dokkum, Dordrecht, Druten, Duiven, Ede, Enschede, Ermelo, Franekeradeel, Geldrop-Mierlo, Gemert-Bakel, Gennep, Gieten, Gorinchem, Gouda, Groningen, Haarlem, Hardenberg, Haren, Hattem, Heerenveen, Hellendoorn, Hengelo, Hengelo bij Bronckhorst, Hilversum, Hoogezand-Sappemeer, Huizen, Hulst, Kampen, Kapelle, Laren, Leek, Leerdam, Leeuwarden, Leidschendam-Voorburg, Lelystad, Leusden, Maasdriel, Maasgouw, Maassluis, Medemblik, Menterwolde, Montfoort, Muiden, Naarden, Nieuwkoop, Nissewaard, Noord-Beveland, Nuenen, Gerwen en Nederwetten, Oldambt, Ommen, Onderbanken, Oost Gelre, Opsterland, Oude Pekela, Peel en Maas, Rekken, Rijsbergen, Rijssen-Holten, Rijswijk, Roermond, Rotterdam, 's-Gravendeel, Schouwen-Duiveland, Sliedrecht, Sluis, Sneek, Soest, Spijkenisse, Terneuzen, Tholen, Tiel, Twenterand, Tynaarlo, Uithuizen, Veendam, Veere, Venray, Vlaardingen, Vlissingen, Waalwijk, Weesp, Werkendam, Wezep, Wijchen, Woerden, Woudrichem, Zaltbommel, Zeevang, Zeewolde, Zevenaar, Zoetermeer, Zuidhorn, Zuidplas, Zutphen en Zwijndrecht.]] Almost half of the municipalities in the Netherlands are likely to host an asylum-seekers' centre. The COA says it's only gonna be more. For example, the whole of the Netherlands will become a large asylum-seekers' centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u391	You have indeed mentioned almost all the municipalities: the municipalities that are already receiving people and the municipalities that are considering this. This shows how great hospitality and mercy are in this country, how widespread the willingness is to catch people fleeing from it. What do you actually say, that that list is so big, despite your screaming and yelling? What does it tell you that there is such a long list of municipalities that are considering housing these people? Doesn't that just make you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u392	This shows, Mr Samsom, that the difference between the administrative political elite and the population is greater than ever!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u393	I can assure you that we would not have 90% of those asylum seekers' centres if we had an elected mayor who would be dealt with on what he would do with it. People don't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u394	I think it's a bit of an embarrassing display. This is a huge problem: human dramas on the Mediterranean and people in the Netherlands who are very worried about what is coming towards us. Both things need to be taken seriously. But there is someone there calling and just saying that it needs to be resolved in the region and that we should do nothing at all here, without taking the responsibility that other parties want to take, namely to ensure that there is proper care. Behind me are parties who are going to applaud a bit if here is a proper concern because that is also the case of Dutch people being addressed. That happens in a totally wrong way, but it is a concern. All these parties should be deeply ashamed and work towards a solution. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u395	You know, Mr Zijlstra, fortunately there is another Party for Freedom, because your party, the VVD, is completely ignorant! You even call closing the borders a dream image. You're not doing anything! You come up with plans that are throwing Europe away, and they do nothing about it in Europe. The only thing, Mr Zijlstra, through you, Madam President-in-Office, which is helping now is to do what the people want and to do what every poll shows, namely to stop and say 'enough is enough, stop the Islamic invasion, stop the asylum seeker and close the borders'. That is what the people want and you should be ashamed that you are doing the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u396	I agree with what Mr Zijlstra has just said, but I also have a question for Mr Wilders. He lists a whole list of municipalities where there are asylum seekers' centres and he pushes them away, because that is not what he is about. He pretends to be a completely new phenomenon, but we are dealing with it a long time ago. I'm not just gonna ask the question, I'm gonna answer her as well. At the time when you were the tolerant partner and shared responsibility for the policy of that cabinet, I never heard you, and I am pleased that we had a list of 65 municipalities in the Netherlands where asylum seekers' centres were. If you turn that against each other, maybe it's not so new what we're doing. I call upon you not to bring such a list to show how bad it is. Over the years we have had asylum-seekers' centres and we will keep them. Indeed, it is a great obligation to deal with the problem for the future. However, I said earlier today that you are making the problem bigger by the way you act, while it is the responsibility of politics to reduce the problem of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u397	My fellow Members seem to be shocked by the list, and I can imagine that very well. What Mr Buma said, namely 50 or 60 asylum seekers' centres, was indeed the case. My second list adds another 120 asylum seekers' centres. That's what's new. This means that at the moment one in two municipalities in the Netherlands half of the Netherlands is being filled with asylum seekers' centres. Today we heard that 3,000 asylum seekers have arrived in Nijmegen. I'm already getting e-mails from older people who live nearby and who don't dare on the street anymore. That's a terrible thing. People get mugged with it. They don't have any say. They don't want it, and the COA is the body that talks about where and how many asylum seekers' centres are going to come. This is just the beginning and there will be many more. The whole of the Netherlands will be full of asylum seekers' centres. That's what I'm talking about with the Islamic invasion. You were the one who spoke earlier today about Christian values, but forget about those Christian values. The Netherlands is overwhelmed by all Muslims who have nothing to do with our values, who fight in the asylum-seekers' centres and want nothing more than to control us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u398	I would like to say one more thing about the way Geert Wilders talks about Christian values. When he takes those words in his mouth, he talks about that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u399	You took them in the mouth!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u400	I just heard you say it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u401	I quoted you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u402	And to the concept of "Christian values" you link the stopping of others. "Christian values" also mean that you have respect for the other, that you may have respect for municipalities that deal with this difficult problem and that at least you have respect for the fact that solutions are sought in this Chamber. I find it very difficult for you to constantly take up the concept of Christian values as if you knew something about it. All you do is point out how bad the others are. I'm sorry, but that has nothing to do with Christian values.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u403	What's happening here is cultural suicide. It's just cultural suicide. Mr Buma of the CDA, who should have something of "Christian" in his name, means that we commit cultural suicide. The CDA stood for "Christian" and now stands for "Christians serve Allah." That's the conclusion of your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u404	Of course, Mr Wilders has the right to express concerns, to make proposals and to express his opinion. The list didn't scare me, either. I am shocked by the tone on which Mr Wilders splatters almost all of the Netherlands and almost everyone shares the same view. Everything and everyone that is not born in the Netherlands is wrong and is a potential terrorist. With the argument that you've kept here for the last half hour, people in the country are being put opposite: you're in my house, you're doing this, you're doing it. You polarize the case so massively that people have been compromised in their value. It is very dangerous in a society in which we have to work together to find solutions if we are to put people on the same footing and start to discriminate. You should distance yourself from that and come up with solutions instead of grossly insulting the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u405	Mr Roemer now defies 50% of his own voters, because 50% of the SP voters do not want any more asylum seekers' centres at all. All the polls show that. They want border controls, borders to close. That's what your constituents want. Again, we can't handle any of this. I am proud that there is at least one party left in this house who speaks the language of the people, who says what people think on the streets, which you are afraid to say here. You represent the House of Representatives; you no longer represent the people. You are politically correct cowards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u406	I would like to discuss every proposal by Mr Wilders, any proposal that could lead to a solution to any problem. He is responsible for a lot of things and voted in favour in Rutte I. Not enough affordable rentals? It was your own policy. Reduce integration? It was your own policy. You've caused a lot of these problems yourself. I'm worried and angry that you're putting everyone on the same page. You don't care if anyone's lived here for 25 years. If he happens to be from Afghanistan, he's no good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u407	Where'd you get that crap?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u408	The only thing you are doing, Mr Wilders, with this speech of the last half-hour, is turning people against each other, setting up villages against each other, setting them up against each other, far from solving a problem that you yourself are guilty of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u409	I can only say that Mr Roemer is a very big liar. He sums up all the things I would have said. I'm saying that, and I'm not taking a word of it back, no matter how much you talk in the microphone. He says things to me I never said about Afghans who live here for 25 years and are no good. You're a very big liar. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u410	This is exactly why we like to talk through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u411	This says enough about Mr Wilders. It says enough that he not only scoundrels the people in the country, but also scoundrels everyone here. It's his only point, his unique selling point. He wants to exploit this. That may be so, but come up with concrete proposals that the country has something to wear and do not turn everyone against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u412	I would like to make specific proposals. I'm not turning anyone against each other. I say what millions of people in the Netherlands find. That we cannot handle 3,000 asylum seekers a week. That we cannot handle 150 000 asylum seekers a year. That we would rather spend the 10 billion that that costs on care, Mr Roemer. That we'd rather spend it on the nursing homes. That we prefer to spend it on small and medium-sized enterprises. That we prefer to spend it on the Netherlands. That's why I'm here. I was not elected by the asylum seekers from Eritrea or Afghanistan. I was chosen by the people from the Netherlands. I'm sticking up for those people. Do you think I'm ashamed of that? I'm proud of it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u413	Perhaps just for the viewers at home: these are still the General Political Reviews for the year 2016. At first they heard lists and then some shouting, but it is really the debate on the main lines of policy. I felt that the debate did gain a level when it was about Christian values after those bald lists. I would like to hear some positive texts from Mr Wilders. What are some of the Christian values of which he says: we must stand for them and we are proud of them in our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u414	One of those Christian values is that we stand up for our own people. That's what we have to do. And one of the Christian values...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wilders would like to give his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u416	It's really significant that everyone's laughing about this. Standing up for your own people is that we should put every Christian at the forefront of this, and we should ensure that our country is Islamic. What's more Christian than that? In doing so, we ensure that the Netherlands keeps those Christian values. I assure my colleague of the SGP that if we do not do so and do not stand up for our own people and do not say "no Islam anymore," the Christians will be the first to be sacrificed in the Netherlands by Islam. So standing up for Christian values means saying no to asylum seekers from those countries, saying no to new mosques and saying no to new imams.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u417	I fear that standing up for Christian values will sound very hollow if we ourselves do not know what those Christian values stand for. Then we actually get scared of the whole outside world around us. Isn't it one important point of Christian values when you see in how many places in the world something goes wrong that every human being, whoever he is, is our fellow man and not vermin?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u418	It sure as hell isn't pests. But I repeat: if you want your party or Christians to continue to function in the Netherlands, you will have to make sure that Islam does not become more dominant than it already is. Your party, your people and the Christian values in the Netherlands will be the first to be sacrificed if Islam gets its way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u419	You do not need to convince the SGP of the importance of Christian values. In today's Europe and the Netherlands, I see that many people in this culture are opposed to the Christian past. Also in the PVV I found no supporter when it came to typical Christian points as protection of life or standing up for Sunday rest. The conscientious objector had to be evicted. What do you mean, Christian values?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u420	You can share the Christian values, even though you are not a Christian yourself. It's possible. That's what millions of people in the Netherlands do. This is without prejudice to the fact that, if we want these values to remain and we do not want to force anything by force if someone disagrees with another, we must turn Islam around. I am surprised that the SGP Group does not see that, if Islam becomes dominant in the Netherlands, the SGP, the Christian Union, anyone who adheres to Christianity or Judaism, will hang in a high tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u421	Does Mr Wilders also see what is happening in the Netherlands at the moment, in all the places he mentioned and in other places in churches?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u422	And I'll tell you what else happens here. I know that there are people in all these municipalities, in churches and outside churches, who are okay with these people coming and there are asylum seekers' centres. Those people are practically represented by everyone in this Chamber except the Party for Freedom. We represent, we stand up for those millions of people who say that they cannot and do not want to do so at the moment. We must first ensure that our elderly are not in a diaper in a nursing home. We have to take care of that. We must first ensure that the money is spent on jobs for our own people who are unemployed. We must ensure that this is what we have been chosen to do. These must be our priorities. I find it unbelievable that here in this entire House of Representatives, apart from that pie point of the PVV, nobody, but no one at all, proclaims that sound of those millions of Dutch people. I'm proud I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u423	Not so long ago, at the beginning of your speech, you pretended that you spoke on behalf of all the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u424	I never pretended that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u425	Then you mentioned a huge list of place names, which already undermines that statement. Now there are millions. However, I can tell you that in all those places you have mentioned, Christians and non-Christians are trying to do the best they can in a situation where people in need are knocking and need help and shelter for a certain period of time. I'm so proud of those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u426	Sure. You should be, too. But if there are too many, it will be the demise of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Almost half of the municipalities in the Netherlands are likely to have an asylum-seekers' centre. I just told you. The Netherlands will become one large asylum seekers' centre, with unfortunately also a lot of terrorists in between. And the Dutch can all work to feed those people and provide them with free health care, benefits and so on. It was a small mountain stream. It's now a fast swirling river that's crashing over our land with an emergency cruise. Nothing and no one is spared. About every municipality in the Netherlands is ruined, except of course the canal belt and the villa neighbourhoods. Our beautiful Netherlands continues to sink into the swamp, led by the elite who greet the invasion with flags and teddy bears, who rejoice that our people are simply being replaced. It's the Netherlands now. It's gonna be Hollandistan. Now it is the home of the Dutch people. Soon, if we continue like this, it will be the Islamic salvation state with the Sharia and the Koran. It is a cultural kamikaze, a cultural suicide, a national suicide, led and welcomed by all the people here in the House of Representatives except my own group and the cabinet. It's obvious what needs to be done. Firstly, as I said, no more asylum seekers, no more asylum seekers. The second solution is absolutely essential: our borders are completely closed to asylum seekers and terrorists, not temporary but final. The Netherlands must leave Schengen. The Netherlands must become the boss of its own country, both in the European Union and in the rest of the world. Thirdly, as I have said so many times, please let the jihadists leave and never let them come back to the Netherlands. Fourthly, enter administrative detention for people who pose a threat to our security and who cannot be removed from the streets with criminal law. Make the Netherlands safe. It's time to confess to color. As far as my group is concerned, these are the colours red, white and blue. Can't look away anymore. We can't look away anymore. We have to choose now. The question is: do we choose our freedom or do we sign the capitulation of the Netherlands? We can only preserve our freedom if we act as true patriots, if we focus on preserving our identity, if we focus on the unique, beautiful character of our own country, of this country. It's also the only country we have. The Dutch interest must be at the forefront again. Our flag must be number one again. We must no longer listen to Brussels. No longer the interests of Greece, no longer the interests of Africa, no longer the interests of Lebanon and no longer the interests of Islam, but a single interest counts: the Dutch interest. Fortunately, we see that alive patriotism in more and more places in the Netherlands. We see it in the protests against asylum seekers' centres. We see it in support of, for example, the referendum on the GeenStijl website, a referendum on the treaty with Ukraine. I'd say sign, all of you! We see it in the polls. We can be dismissed here by all colleagues, but in a number of polls the Party for Freedom is the largest party in the Netherlands. The reality is not what the NOS or RTL, what Umberto Tan, Jeroen Pauw or all the other kleeffe known Dutch people are trying to tell people. The reality is that millions of Dutch people say no to even more asylum seekers, because Dutch people are not crazy. And that's just the beginning, because I assure you: the Netherlands is waking up. patriotism has the future. The Dutch understand that we are dealing with an Islamic invasion, that we have to reverse that invasion and that, if we don't, that invasion will turn us around. We very much want us to reverse that invasion, that the Netherlands will come out stronger, that we will survive and that we will come out stronger than we ever were.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u427	Mr Wilders succeeded, I think in half an hour, to picture the two Netherlands here, to split the Netherlands. 'Cause what's the message he's got for all those people he represents? Because I don't think I'm gonna get right. I'd like to catch a lot more people here. But I do not think that Mr Wilders is right and that no one is being heard here at all. The fact remains that a lot of people will come here who need shelter. They come into our society. What you are doing now, Mr Wilders, is creating two Netherlands. Then what is the message to your supporters? What are they supposed to do? What does patriotism mean in practice? Asylum centres will be created and it is up to us as politicians to ensure that we can live together in peace here. What is your call to your constituents?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u428	Make a move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u429	- Resistance? - Yeah. What do we mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u430	Make a move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u431	What do you mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u432	Make a move! Don't accept it! Go to those asylum seekers' centres or those meeting evenings at the municipality on which it is decided to do so. I just mentioned that whole list...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u433	Go to your...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u434	May I finish? I just mentioned the whole list, which the COA wanted to keep under the hat, which they didn't want people to know, because they were afraid they would resist! Of course, I'm talking about democratic, nonviolent resistance, but don't take it! The PVV is the biggest party in almost all polls for a reason. It is not for nothing that we here represent the sound of millions of people. It is incomprehensible that the rest of the Chamber does not! You no longer represent the Netherlands. So I say to everyone: we are expressing your position; we are democratically resisting those asylum seekers' centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u435	That is an important addition: resisting in a democratic way. And what if the city council decides democratically that there should be an asylum-seekers' centre, which happened in all those places you just read a list of? Then what is your message to your supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u436	Never vote for GroenLinks again. Yeah, it's that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u437	Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u438	We're Democrats. We use democratic, nonviolent means. We will never do otherwise, but we will make our sounds heard. And I hope that all those Dutch people who see tonight that a fraction of twelve men actually represent what millions say, what half plus one of this Chamber should actually say if you look at all the polls. I hope all these people wake up. And I am saying that all those people will wake up, and that they will deal with them in a democratic way, with people like Mr Clover and others who do not represent them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u439	That's right, that it's democratic. But I think it is our responsibility, including as politicians, to ensure that we can live together here in peace. Even when people come from outside. Even if people need our help. Maybe that's the worst part: I didn't discover an ounce of humanity tonight, but I didn't discover a shred of humanity. Not an ounce. Not yet a start of compassion with people who have to flee violence, oppression and hunger. Nothing. I had hoped to see some of that, despite all the tirades, but unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u440	Mr President, I would like to end by addressing you directly, as well as the members of this Chamber and the cabinet. I'm telling you all what I actually said earlier. I'm gonna say it again. You're not the Netherlands. The heart of the Netherlands has long stopped beating in this room. The real heart of the Netherlands beats out there, where the Dutch people are, where our people live. That's the real Netherlands. In the name of all these millions of people, who you no longer represent, I say do your duty. Stop looking away. Stand for the Netherlands. Choose our people. Stand on the bright side of history. Fight for our future. Stop that Islamic invasion and please let the Netherlands remain the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u441	Mr. Chairman. "Keeps course," that powerful slogan on the beautiful poster should seem familiar to the Prime Minister. I see him nodding in agreement. He also gets warm feelings from an election poster with the slogan "Keeps course." Like me, as a good historian, he will immediately think of almost a hundred years ago. In 1922, this appeal was made on the election poster of the Free Democratic Union. In 2015 the original hangs on the offices of D66. We see the ship of state that sails between the extreme cliffs of revolution and reaction. A strong picture: keeping course, sticking to principles and ideals, regardless of the political climate. The sometimes grim winds of the political flanks defy, radiate responsibility and determination and thus create confidence. That slogan "Keeps course" might have been so familiar to the Prime Minister that he himself was going to campaign with it this year; a hopeful signal and an equally healthy and necessary political institution for the last year and a half of this coalition. After seven years in a crisis-like atmosphere, the Netherlands is finally getting better, but the recovery is fragile. The 600,000 unemployed still do not notice much of it. Moreover, the recovery is highly dependent on international developments. Bad news about the Chinese economy has led to blind panic in the last month at global trade fairs. From an economic point of view, we are still a sidecar of the German engine. So our influence is limited, but what we can do, we have to do. Preferably a little faster than others. Over the past few years, we have had to take corners: reform at a rapid pace and make cuts from a broad sense of urgency. But there was also a broad sense of it: we should have done this before. So let us not make that mistake again. In areas where politics is leading, it must be constantly adapting. Politics must strike a balance between generations and people with more and less opportunities to maintain their support. Political vigilance must also be exercised so that the necessary long term does not always go against the electoral convenience of the short term. If you take your job as a politician seriously, you refuse to accept that the ship of state threatens to sail on one of those cliffs by polarization or profiling urge. There's a lot to be proud of in this country. The Dutch always score in the top five of the most happy people, but still something gnaws. People don't have much to do with politics. The reward for political action is already rare, understandable rare, and that is where the dramas surrounding the pgbs, appropriate education or the National Police come to an end. And if the atmosphere is already ruined by flat election promises in advance, that's a poisonous cocktail that promotes populism. Then there are the closed institutions such as banks, housing corporations and pension funds that too often decide about people without people. Let me give an example to pension funds, which give people too little insight and too little choice. 1,500 billion in social capital, but we hardly have any influence on it. Solidarity between generations, between young and old is under pressure. We want to give people maximum, individual influence, combined with the benefits of the collective, because that is where the shoe is wringing. People feel that they have no control over anything, that it happens to them and that politics makes it happen. And politics doesn't have to have an answer to everything either. We are not always on the move, but too often the impression is given that we here with 150's and they there in box-K will take care of it all. The power of The Hague is waning. Power goes to the cities and to Europe. Because whether we like it or not, the nation state is over its peak. That's the reality you shouldn't put your head in the sand for. And why would you do that? Cities are the source of economic growth and European cooperation makes us economically and geopolitically resilient. In order to combat cynicism, to prevent people from being disappointed in their expectations, my answer is not: even more government. For example, the unbridled control urge of The Hague is a thorn in the eye for many professionals in care and education. We also see that in the police. Don't ask them to do their job with a hand behind their back. I also sincerely wonder whether a so-called holiday budget would be the best answer to people's cynicism, to their legitimate concerns. It's a bad sign that half of the Netherlands won't believe it if the cabinet says they'll get it better next year. It is a sweeping sign that the cabinet with a party budget scores even worse reports than last year. Therefore show leadership. Let us focus on the major issues of our time, where politics must be leading. A country like Estonia, at a gun shot away from Putin, has been transformed from a Soviet satellite into a state-of-the-art country in 25 years. I mention Merkel's leadership on refugees and Obama's leadership on the climate lately. Political courage certainly had this cabinet. The Prime Minister was doing well and we supported him in that good, but the course has shifted considerably. From a common struggle for recovery and progress to too much struggle within the coalition; diametrically opposed, in the words of the PvdA party chairman. And that will be a perilous adventure, irresponsible even with only 21 seats in the First Chamber and one seat majority here in the Second Chamber and every month a new dissident. A perilous adventure that runs, I'm afraid, in a year and a half doing nothing, except handing out free money. Isn't that an illusion policy? That's where people prick right through. They can assume that, even in the eyes of elections, a cabinet is not only concerned with handing out gifts to the left and right? They must assume that a cabinet does not look away from excessive unemployment and that it creates jobs, including for people who need extra attention, such as 50-plussers and people with disabilities. They can assume that the government is finally lettingzzp'ers know what they are up to, that it is not going to drive them in the wheels with higher taxes and that it is therefore putting in place a thorough tax reform in its last year and a half? Surely they can assume that the cabinet will not dive from large flows of refugees, the dramatic consequences of climate change and the erosion of the rule of law? Against the politics of illusion, I put the politics of realism. Not doing what seems tempting in dreams, but what is necessary when you are awake. From your ideals realizing it. There is every reason to have the confidence that it will succeed, in the Netherlands and beyond. Let me start with out there. Europe has been created by a combination of pragmatism and idealism. The necessary deepening of cooperation will also be based on that same pragmatism and idealism. The pragmatism in me says: we do not escape laying down powers in Europe. Any politician who promises otherwise will sooner or later come home from a cold carnival. The refugee crisis has put our noses on that fact. Without a united and decisive Europe, we will never get anywhere. Last Monday, in view of the urgency of the matter, the divided Europe at the summit was yet another embarrassing display. Refugee flows are not from today or yesterday, and it's an illusion to think they'll stop tomorrow. Only migration deniers claim otherwise. It still has to be spring very often in the Arab world. If that ever really happened, there might be a stream of climate refugees at our border. For decades, neither a Republican nor a Democrat in the White House have been able to stop the Mexican migrant flow, but once again sixteen Republican candidates are plundering each other to make the voter that false promise. So it is an illusion to think that we can stop people by building walls. But it's also nonsense that we couldn't handle this problem. If the political will is there and the political will is based on public support, we can do anything. The cabinet has established a link between the reception of refugees and the closure of European borders. There is no mention of the latter in Brussels. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: are we or are we not going to take those 7,214 refugees quickly? In addition to a good shelter, I am also concerned with the successful integration of the people who remain here. We also need them, high- and low-skilled, to keep our economy running. Does the Prime Minister agree with me? If so, can this be carried out a little more? Many Indonesians, Surinames, Moroccans and Turks have been making a valuable contribution to our society for decades. That too can be said a little more, because the problems, which there are of course, are sufficiently emphasised. Is it so strange that many well-integrated people now feel second-class citizens because of a vicious climate of "we would rather lose you than be rich"? We are right to admit more refugees now. Some of them will abide; that is certain. So I ask the Prime Minister: how do we work with the cities to ensure that the integration of these people is not a failure but a success? How do we get them to work as soon as possible? When can we expect the concrete proposals announced in the Throne speech? Illusion policy was also seen at the Greek impasse, but the bill for 'no more money to the Greeks' has now been paid by the VVD. Let me say the following. I am glad that Mr Zijlstra is not hiding in his room today but sitting in his bench and that I can tell him: no strong euro without European political direction. Just as ministers today traveled to Brussels every week for yet another fruitless attempt to reach an agreement on the last crisis, representatives of the Batavian Republic traveled from their provinces to the Binnenhof until the idea of having provincial representatives answer to the whole people from France. Resistance everywhere. Now I rarely hear anyone who thinks it is better for the Netherlands to organize the city administration again from the provinces, apart from a few highly appreciated Frisians. The future of the euro area is under consideration in Berlin and Paris. You can blame Cameron for everything and you can be horrified by the Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán, but at least they have a European agenda. I can't always say that about our Prime Minister. Prove I'm wrong! Let us see that, during the Dutch Presidency, the dragon of a European budget will be put to an end; that 1000 billion will be poured into concrete for seven years! What results has the Prime Minister achieved in this area next year? I'm coming to climate change. This cabinet has the illusion that it's all not that bad. How else am I supposed to explain that the Prime Minister is going to court again quietly, but doesn't need to take action now that the energy agreement doesn't reach its goals? Does he think that the judge with all these cuts has nothing better to do? The reality is that glaciers disappear at hundreds of meters a year. The pack ice on the North Pole has melted for almost two thirds since 1980. There is therefore no time to lose for Europe and for the Netherlands. The threats are heading for us, while the odds are ahead of us. Bring down the CO emissions! Shut down the coal power stations! Don't make Groningen shake anymore! Get Putin's hand off our thermostat! Isolate every school and government building! Lay the roofs full of panels for all I care! In this land of wind and water there is clean energy for ten. The Netherlands, however, hangs on the rear mem in terms of performance, alongside Luxembourg and Malta. But what is the answer of this cabinet? The answer is to abolish the coal tax and immeasurably stick to a weak energy agreement. When will we finally succeed in pulling climate and energy out of the polarized discussion, as if it were a choice, as if it were a luxury? For hours of debate about deposit money, plastic bags and carbonated soft drinks in too small bottles, all of which are very important, we are not going to save the climate. Climate and energy, that's our earning model. This leads to innovation and jobs. With that, we can lead the 21st century. Do we have green-right prime minister, yes or no? Now I am going to our own country, to the Tax Plan, which does not even suggest a tax reform. Last year there was a letter of 27 sides with the promise of 100,000 jobs. Where did it go wrong? You know, Mr. Chairman, what I saw at that negotiating table before the summer? In front of me was a cabinet that only wanted to play Santa Claus and asked the opposition: stick your necks out, take care of the spine, say how long our wrist stick can reach. This emperor had no clothes on and that was the naked truth. Handing out 5 billion is perhaps good for the sustainability of this cabinet, but not for the sustainability of the treasury. How wonderful it would be if the cabinet were to use the money for a real reform! How wonderful it would be if the cabinet were to make real work of more jobs, less money pumping around and greener taxes! It is irresponsible to leave unemployment so high. With a little creativity, the number of additional jobs can be more than doubled. Look at this plan!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u442	"Look at this plan." I have said it before, but I repeat: what surprises me is that Mr Pechtold has been there for two years when the chickens make a deal with a cabinet that raises taxes by billions. He's in. But in the year when the cabinet comes to the understanding that the burden, especially for middle incomes, has to be reduced, whatever jobs are created, D66 is pretty much the first party to say: it has to be different, now we are out of the game. I can't place that. Surely it is much better to ensure that 5 billion relief can continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u443	Fantastic! And the first 12 billion were included in the spring agreement together with the CDA. That was not so much austerity, it was making sure that the overdue maintenance in our economy was dealt with. I deliberately signed an agreement with the cabinet about the housing market and you didn't. I have done the same for care, education, pensions, the AOW age and the labour market. In all these areas, the Netherlands has actually seen the problems pile up since the fall of Balkenende II and III. And yes, Mr Buma, of course it is easy to say, when the cabinet says that there is money left, that is the only thing we do one and a half years before the elections. That money is not there, because it is an extra debt. But the CDA and also the cabinet had a higher ambition in the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u444	If you say 'the money is not there' and 'it is not possible', then you should not seek a different interpretation for the 5 billion. That's a weird argument. Either you say "5 billion in a different way than yes," or you find it irresponsible, and you just have to say: we were right about the tax increase last year; it doesn't have to go down so much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u445	I do not have to explain to Mr Buma that after years of deficit above 3%, we are now finally moving towards budgetary balance. It is also clear that we are not on that yet. That we went a little faster than we all hoped, that's right, and so, if you want, you can take something of space. That is what the cabinet is doing, but we are still spending more money than it is coming in. This year, too, our public debt is growing. This year, too, we are paying interest on the debt we pass on to future generations. But the government is not a private household and so we don't have to come out every year. And yes, you can bet money, money you borrow from the next generation with the responsibility to do sensible things with it. D66 plans reduce the burden more than in the cabinet. We're greening more than the cabinet. We have more guts to put it down in local democracy, and we score more than twice as many jobs as the cabinet in its plans. And yes, that's why I'm proud of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u446	Once again, if you relieve as much burden as the cabinet without cover, my analysis is that you cannot claim to be more economical than the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u447	I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u448	Okay, but then blaming money is a little cheap. I think it's important, too, and that's why I'm so observant. I may have been able to read your plan in black and white. It doesn't say anything that anyone's been checking to see if it's true. You have accused others in interruptions of a garden chair, but then you have to sit in the armchair yourself, so I say very funny and transferable, because that makes it very easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u449	I don't think it's very strong, but I'm doing it for it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u450	In view of the time, I think it is even more than one might have expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u451	From you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u452	And that last one is exactly what we could have expected from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u453	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u454	I am really surprised that you say that more than twice as many jobs will be created. You're making that up because it's not based on anything. You quote a bill from last year's Central Planning Office, but you forget, for example, that you are introducing a Maut tax for trucks in your own plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u455	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u456	I don't mean to be a pain in the ass, but there are a lot of people working in the transport sector, and that just costs jobs. In short, this whole job reasoning is wrong and the CPB has not looked at it. Really, that way you can't come up with such a plan and besides, you really have to be more careful with your criticism of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u457	I'd like to answer half an hour, but I can't. You can spend money. You can go to the bookstore to buy a novel or you can buy a textbook there. One's great, and when it's over, maybe you'll borrow it again. The other makes sure that you can buy two books in the future. That's the responsible spending of money. Then D66's plans. Yeah, we put it down the CPB bar. I didn't see anyone in the garden. I haven't been there myself. We just put it along the models of the CPB and it shows that with these plans D66 creates more than the double number of jobs. And yes, that's where I know the CDA is never so much in favour of greening. Mr Buma is now zooming in on the Maut, the truck tax; Mr Buma always cites Germany, Mrs Merkel, as the great example. This Maut is exactly the same as what is already in Germany. We are pumping back the proceeds so that employers can hire an employee more cheaply and they both have more money left in the wallet. Madam President, you understand, Mr Buma. This plan also includes an additional reduction in the burden on labour by greening, two birds with one stone. The cabinet does zero point zero to greening. I think that's a missed opportunity. The burden on labour can be further reduced by giving municipalities more room for their own tax territory. The D66 plan is four pieces: more guts, more jobs, less burdens, less pollution and less bureaucracy. I ask the Prime Minister one good reason not to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u458	Once more, Mr President, because I am beginning to understand it less and less. It's a huge list. That makes it more difficult, if I may put it this carefully, to achieve a reduction in the burden on which we agree. What's the point of D66 now? Is it intended to place all these statements which we should all gradually be able to see? I refer to the Maut tax for lorries but also to the energy tax rate for gas, which simply means a higher energy bill, which is not going to fly like that? Unless Mr Pechtold thinks: with GroenLinks, PvdA and SP we get the cabinet a completely different direction, and then we do it this way. What is the intention, to reduce the burden by 5 billion, or to make things so impossible that there will be either nothing or a completely different plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u459	Mr President, Mr President. Mr Buma said, before the cabinet gave its 5 billion, before the summer, that I would sign with the cross, which the cabinet also brings with it. Today we have also seen that the cabinet is actually sitting back, albeit not in the garden chair, because it thinks: Buma and that First Chamber group of his, who are inside. That is a way of making politics, but I want something more, with actually not so many radical adjustments. I just want to make smart adjustments. I'm just giving you some examples. Just giving the parents a little more space in day care. Getting something refreshing like this. Someone has a translation agency, and now they're doing it on their own, as azzp'er. He thinks, you know what, I actually have work for two, I'm hiring someone. Then we say: for the first two years we will remove the employer's burden. This saves €10,000 on an annual basis for a modal income. That is good for the economy, that creates jobs, that makes the plans better. I am disappointed by the CDA if Mr Buma is still interested in the answer. In fact, they'll have to. Fortunately, much remains to be seen in this budget of the budgetary agreements of recent years. They had and keep our support. But with the extra spending, the coalition thought: no fuss, just half for the political stickhorses. Fine. But don't blame us for looking a little further. I'll mention three things. Firstly, there are major problems in appropriate education. In essence a good idea, but in the execution there is a drama, a kind of pgb 2.0. My answer would be more class assistants. Of course, they have to be paid. If the Prime Minister asks us what we're paying for, this is my answer. If I read the budget correctly, there will be another half a billion in 2017, because the money for the low-income advantage, the liv, will not be spent until 2018. Is that right? I'd like a response. Secondly, with the cabinet, I want to return to the top five of the most competitive innovative economies. We are still waiting for results from the past. If we invest more in research and innovation and spend the available money better, the Netherlands could be the innovation centre of the world in 2030, as I say to Mr Samsom. Let us stimulate sectors in which we are good, with results such as Blendle, Booking.com, or the Ocean Cleanup, which wants to clean up the plastic soup in the oceans. In short, how much money do we have for the Science Agenda? Or does it disappear above the WRR report on the learning economy in the Ministry drawer? Finally, Security and Justice, for five years in VVD hands. I told you before, it's never been such a mess. A chaotic reorganisation at the National Police, unrest among the unions, blunder in a fourteen-year-old deal with Cees H., a destructive report by the Hoekstra Commission, major financial deficits on the budget. I understand they're even borrowing from the Treasury. For two years now, on a collision course in the Senate with registry rights and legal aid. And then send a critical report on the D.A. During the throne speech to the Chamber in the hope that we will sit down. Well, I didn't. I am therefore not at all surprised that mistakes are being made in the police and the judiciary. Those people can't work harder than they already do. Five years of political bullshit! It's unworthy of a rule of law. In this way, I have no confidence in that budget. Mr. Chairman. The last time I saw the cabinet walking over the beach in hoodie jersey, through wind and rain, I thought: "Oh, the ship of state has crashed and the crew has been able to save the body just in time." The question now is whether the Prime Minister can still get things moving, with dangerous cliffs emerging, clumsy political support, profiling urge and quarrel and a desire for populism in the face of elections. I would say that not public opinion rules, but the cabinet. But then there must be something to rule. I have put forward ideas for this today. So it is up to you to choose: stop or stop!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u460	Madam President. I may not tell you anything new if I say I'm a fanatical runner. Some people sometimes ask me: why do you do that, what do you like about that? That's a good question. I enjoy it when I'm in The Hague during weekdays to follow the rabbits in the early or evenings because in between they have to work between Scheveningen and Kijkduin. Or if I walk in my hometown of Zwolle along those beautiful floodplains of the IJssel, perhaps the most beautiful place in the Netherlands. Mr Koenders is from there, he should know. It's strenuously relaxing, but it also helps me. It helps me to distance myself from my work for a while and to really give a place to conversations, debates images and impressions that I get into my work. For a debate like this, you have to walk a long way to give it a place. But it doesn't always work. Sometimes I can't give places to things, especially images. Then I can't let that go. Especially when I see children being ground by injustice in the world. For example, I see that 16-year-old girl for me who has been in the news for a long time in the Netherlands, who began to believe herself that she was not worth more than the money her body paid for her pimp. Or the guy with Down's syndrome, who was asked in the newspaper last week whether he's worth the 1 to 2 million healthcare costs. Or that little boy from Syria on the arm of his crying father, who comes from the sea and reaches the beach of Kos. Or Margarita, who has lived in camps for years and now with her mother to it for them if Christians do not risk safe Uzbekistan being returned. That's what gets me. I have become politically active in the belief that every human being matters, that every human being has received life from God, is loved and comes to his right in relation to others. I have become politically active in the belief that every life is valuable and that justice must be done. Those are my values, which come from my Christian belief in life. We are debating the state of the country and the state of the world for hours today and also tomorrow. We see great needs, ask big questions, make big plans and sketches also very broad lines. We also know the big numbers: 60 million refugees worldwide, about 1 million lonely people in the Netherlands, 600,000 job seekers in the Netherlands and so on. But sometimes it helps me to make those big questions of our time as small as they are. What can we do for that one, for that one refugee, that one job seeker, that one lonely, that one child with Down's syndrome, that one woman in prostitution? How responsible do we want to be for them? Where life seems to have become worthless, life can also be restored in value. These are also moments to talk about this and discuss our role in it. It is precisely when a budget is presented and when budgets are drawn up that matters. In a budget, as a cabinet, you also make clear what choices you make for each person. That also makes a budget a moral document. We have been given the budgets. It's become a real festive budget, even if it's not called that anymore. The money is blotting over the thresholds of the Trêveszaal and we will know that. Such a situation is useful, also to bridge and cloak political differences between coalition partners; wheels and deals to connect political extremes to achieve a politically satisfactory result. I say, "Sometimes I have to." There is nothing wrong with investing, but the question is: where does the cabinet heart fit? I am pleased to note that the Prime Minister has now thrown away all the hesitation in talking about values. Also yesterday in the Throne speech, the subject of "values" came back. I'm glad to hear that, but I'm glad to hear that! Madam President, through you, may I ask the Prime Minister to look into his political heart tomorrow? Where's your fire? What injustice do you set in motion? What do you find valuable? I have another question for the Prime Minister. How does he want to work for the next year? The support for his cabinet has become much smaller in the past year. Due to division of the coalition parties there is a minimum majority in the House of Representatives. Only one coalition member has to sleep through the alarm clock on Tuesday and there may be a problem. In the First Chamber, coalition members can now afford to do so, because there the coalition is far from having a majority. But even if every coalition member is there, there's no guarantee that it's going well. What does this situation mean for the Prime Minister's attitude towards Parliament? How's he looking for support? Or does he side with all the opposition's solutions, as last week was a little bit the impression of the debate on the refugee issue? What room is there for adjustments to the cabinet plans that are now before us? Does it matter at all what others than the coalition parties think of the party planned by the Prime Minister or is it still a private party? The Christian Union likes to think out loud about how we can stand up in our country for what may be valuable. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, it is necessary to adjust the current burden relief package for the cabinet of EUR 5 billion. The way in which the money is now spent is, in our view, too one-sided. As far as we are concerned, attention should not only be paid to the workers in the Netherlands. They deserve that attention, but all attention should not go exclusively to them. Attention should also be paid to chronically ill and disabled people, to carers and to parents with young children who are not both fully-timed in the labour market. In the budget we are proposing, we are also going to make additional efforts on the major global issues at the moment: the refugee issue, but also the climate problems we are now facing, which are getting bigger and bigger. In our view, this must be done more than the cabinet now stands for. The same applies to safety. I noticed it today in an interruption to Mr Zijlstra: you would almost think that Minister Van der Steur was dealing with a genuine hazing at his first budget negotiations, because he missed the boat. It really can't be. That budget needs to be dealt with. We will also make additional funds available for the transition of the Wmo and the Long-Term Care Act for the coming year. There is, as the practice shows, more money to be needed and then you have to act. We are also making money available for a further reduction of gas production in Groningen, as far as we are concerned next year to 27 billion cubic metres. We have had our budget passed on to the CPB. As it should be, I say with due pride. We walk well, as we call it. Because of our chosen decline in gas production, our balance is only 0.1% worse than that of the cabinet. That is acceptable if you take the slogan that nothing goes beyond Groningen, especially Brussels. I'm asking the Cabinet to go into our budget tomorrow. I asked the Prime Minister to look into his heart tomorrow to show what he stands for. Many Dutch people already show that of themselves. They let their hearts speak and move on many topics, but also on the subject that is so central today, namely the reception of refugees. It is overwhelming how many people are working pro bono for the shelter of someone, a man who has been driven away from home and a fireplace. There is great commitment to the need of the world, but also an attitude you do not want to put down to that need and do what is within your capabilities. Even if you only help one, you're already showing that he's valuable. I ask the cabinet to adopt the same attitude. A coalition compromise is often an average of two political opposites and that does not always fit. One is given the space of reception of more refugees in the short term and the other is an ideal picture of a closed Europe in the longer term, the realization of which is still very uncertain. Everybody happy? I hope not. The compromise forgets that most refugees flee in their own region, sometimes even in their own country and not even in their own country, and that there is no proper reception in that region but also in their own country. If the refugee's life there is as valuable to us as life here, only EUR 110 million extra for reception in the region is really too low, even if a comparison of 2015 figures with 2016 figures shows that savings are being made on balance. There really needs to be more. Besides eating, drinking and a tent above the head, care and education are needed for the children. There really needs to be substantial more money to care in the region. That is what we are making extra money for in our counter-budget. The same applies to the reception of refugees in their own country. I can assure you one thing, and that is that the cabinet's reservations are really inadequate. There will be another problem very soon, and we better get ahead of that. We are also linking our efforts for refugees to additional investments in Defence, especially now more than ever needed in a world of unrest. A prerequisite for a good and valuable life is safety. We believe that the cabinet is really lacking in this respect. Much has already been said about it today, but it is absolutely unacceptable that the collective agreement should not last so long for the police. I know it takes two parties, but it must be our honor to still not settle it properly. The public prosecutor's office is also threatened with major deficits. There's a devastating report. Something really has to happen there. As far as we are concerned, there will be no cuts in the courts in Almelo, Assen, Maastricht, Lelystad, Zutphen, Dordrecht and Alkmaar. I welcome the attitude of the PvdA, which indicates that this plan should not continue in this way, especially in the short term. We will discuss this with the cabinet tomorrow. One thing is clear, and that is that something must be done about the budget for security and justice. That can't just come from the opposition. The coalition will have to think about that, too. It can't be like this. We often divide the country into various groups in the Netherlands. We are often very good at that, but it is actually very simple. You have two kinds of people in this country: people with disabilities and people who think they have no limitation. Pauline and Amber consider themselves the first category. I had a meeting this summer with those who touched me deeply. Pauline and Amber are wheelchair users and founders of a movement of young adults with, as they call it, "a lifelong and life-wide physical and/or sensory handicap," experience experts in life with limitations. The aim of their movement is to bring about a change in thinking, doing and letting in Dutch society. These two young women aim for an inclusive society accessible to all. They want to be heard. They gave me a wristband. That tape had the lyrics on it: we're getting up. Pauline and Amber told me about the obstacles they encountered in their lives. A bus driver who, at the moment they were waiting at the bus stop with their wheelchair, simply refused to take them. It has to prove every time that you have a limitation, knowing that that limitation will never disappear in this earthly existence. The ever-recurring uncertainty as to whether they are capable of a building. The bureaucracy that takes so much of their time. People who, perhaps well-intentioned, give them a compliment in a childish tone when they are doing their own shopping while they are both studying at a university, etcetera, etcetera. They were very big questions and problems they encountered. Nevertheless, there is drive among these women, because they know they are valuable. Bound to their wheelchairs, they said, "We're getting up." I ask the Prime Minister what the cabinet means to women like Pauline and Amber. What is the state of compliance with the UN Convention on People with Disabilities? I know that the action plan is currently being discussed in the Chamber and that the Chamber has further questions about it. I am particularly curious to see whether this is a good thing for all those in office. For the summer, the Environment Act, the law that deals with the spatial design of the Netherlands, is therefore very relevant to how we deal with people with disabilities. At that time, it did not appear to be in the ears of the cabinet that these people should also have a place in it. Cabinet, how far along are you now? I also call on the cabinet to pay attention to unborn children. This fragile life also deserves protection. I repeat our concern about the NIPT, the test to screen pregnant women for Down. I also talked about it last year. That's what's high on us. Can we assume that the cabinet will not allow this test to be offered by default? How does the cabinet view the value of the family as the place where young people grow up and are equipped for a place in society? How grateful we are that many children in our country can grow up in stable family situations, but I am also thinking of the child that does not. My message to the cabinet is also look at our counter-budget: support parents where they can and need to be. We are thinking in particular of those parents or parents for whom the task of raising a child is sometimes extra heavy because of low income or other troubles that exist. We're making extra money for that. I would also like to receive support from the Chamber and the Cabinet for this. I would also like to draw attention to freedom of choice, because it seems as if that word falls a little short of the family policy that the cabinet is in favour of. Leave it to parents themselves how they shape their upbringing. Why do only fathers and mothers who send their children to organized childcare now receive extra money? What about the commitment made last year, which is in black and white in the budget, that if there are more financial resources, the cabinet will also pay extra attention to families with a single earner? Where can we find this attention in the budgets? A few months ago Pope Francis came with his encyclical Laudato si. I saw a picture today; I believe Secretary of State Mansveld had the Pope today or yesterday at hand. I hope she has read the encyclical too, because it is extremely relevant to her policy area. That encyclical touched me, also by the enormous drive of the pope for fellow man, creatures, but also for the environment of that man, the creation itself, or as he calls it: our common home. When we talk about valuable life, we must not forget that context. My group believes that greater choices are needed in dealing with the climate issue. We have the impression that if we do not, I would like to hear that because of political differences in the coalition there is now a situation of standstill on this point. To put it mildly, we consider the cabinet's attitude to be twofold. The seriousness of the situation is expressed with the mouth. Just a short while ago, Minister Koenders said, it would not be five to twelve, not two to twelve, but twelve hours. I think he is right, but what is the reason for this urgency in government policy? We do not see enough of that in the budgets we have now received. Instead of working with even more energy after the so-called Urgenda ruling, you, the cabinet, are appealing against this ruling. What do you mean the judge sits in the chair of politics? Why do you spill your political and administrative energy on that? Put your energy into a strengthened approach to this major global issue. First of all, scrap the unfortunate idea of not levying a coal tax from 2016. Don't get in the way of citizens who really want to work on sustainability and often find the government on their way as a nuisance. Encourage energy awareness, try to get parties to commit themselves to truly ambitious goals. And then break the energy agreement. Because if it's 12 o'clock on your watch, you can't wait any longer. In our counter-budget, we make a number of proposals and I ask the cabinet to go into them. These are proposals that could also be a good run-up to the important climate conference to be held in Paris in some time. We believe that the current commitment of the cabinet is completely unbelievable if we allow coal power stations to steam up and waste time with an appeal in the Urgenda case. There's a real difference, and it's gotta be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u461	I read the counter-budget of the Christian Union. I was really impressed by the way I know the Christian Union from everything it proposes in the area of climate policy. That's how she wants to green up taxes. Can Mr Slob comment on the relationship between these greening measures and whether or not he supports the 5 billion reduction in charges? Is there a relationship in there for him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u462	Everything must, of course, be seen in conjunction. We do want to see a number of fronts moved around the 5 billion package, but also on issues such as refugee policy and climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u463	I'm really glad to hear that. I hope that we will be able to work together on this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u464	Honestly, I have no doubt about that as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Above all, I hope that the cabinet will also give room to move. I remember the General Political Reviews of two years ago. Then the cabinet was very defensive in it. It was pretty good how the Prime Minister did it, but for hours he kept everything going. I really hope to find an open attitude now, even on these issues. Not only because of the narrow support of the cabinet, but also because of the fact that we have to try to work together as widely as possible in this type of global question. I called Pope Francis. I'm even doing that for the second time now, and that as a Protestant. I never thought I'd be such a fan of a pope, but this one really is. I mentioned his encyclical. That encyclical ends with two prayers. I want to conclude with a few beautiful rules from one of those prayers, the prayer for the earth: "God of the poor, help us to save what is abandoned and forgotten on this earth, but what is so precious in your eyes. Heal us, so that we protect the world and not exploit it, so that we sow beauty and not pollution and destruction. Touch the hearts of those who seek profit only at the expense of the poor and the earth. Learn to see the value of every thing (...) Please encourage us in our struggle for justice, love and peace." Madam President, I also pray to you and your staff that you may feel so encouraged in your work, as I do that the Cabinet, my colleagues in the Chamber, all those who support us and those who follow this debate in the Chamber or at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u465	Thank you very much, Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u466	Mr. Chairman. What a pleasure to be able to speak after colleague Wilders. Mr Wilders, you have succeeded fantasticly in getting all the energy out of me and, in my opinion, out of the Chamber. I haven't seen a shred of humanity. I feel anger with myself, too. If you say that all foreigners are no good, if you don't want to look at individuals or exceptions in any way or how we should be there for people, that makes me angry. Often asked, why do you pay attention to this man? I will always pay attention to it and I will always fight it, but I will continue to go to your electorate with an open mind and with an open vision. You set these groups against each other: your voter in front of my voter. But one of the biggest challenges we face now is that we must keep this country united. We are faced with the enormous task of maintaining unity when many refugees come to the Netherlands. If you were a guy, you'd help with that. I've been wondering a lot lately what I'd do if I were a fugitive. And what would you do if you were a fugitive? That might be reminiscent of John Rawls' thought experiment. Imagine if you didn't know where you were born and in what circumstances, that you don't know whether you were born as a man or a woman, in an Islamic family or as an atheist, in Syria or in the Netherlands, what rules would we agree with each other and what would we find to be just? Would we then pursue a generous refugee policy or keep the gate closed? So turn it around. Imagine if we were all born in Syria and after years of Assad bombing we were now hunted by IS, that we had lived in a refugee camp for years under terrible conditions, wouldn't we run? Well, at least I do. I would knock at the gates of Europe, and if I were to arrive in Greece, I would try to travel further, and if I were in Hungary, I would also try to get further, because the circumstances in which I and my children should live are pathetic. I wish that the people in power in the Netherlands and in Europe would allow me to build a new life. That's the choice. What we see in refugees, I think we see it coming back everywhere. Because what if you could just as well be a child in a wealthy doctor's family as a child of a welfare mother, what if you could be born just as well with a disability as with a healthy body and what if the chance of becoming chronically ill would be as great as the chance of getting healthy? What choices would we make? What choices would we make if we had 5 billion to spend? It stands, I suspect, in stark contrast to the choices that are being made now. The Millions note reads, in my view, as a succession of wrong or unmade choices. A load relief is scattered across the Netherlands, but not everyone is in the right corner. 16% of households are declining. A single person in the assistance is going to be able to pay a monthly fee of €1.30, but a person who earns two and a half times a fashion can count on €160 each month. There you are with your "fair share"! It's pure waste, waste that we can't afford. After years of savings, there is also room to invest again. Let's face it, that's good. After the savings of 1.8 billion on participation, there is now 100 million for sheltered workshops. Fortunately, after more than 1 billion cuts in family allowances, 290 million can now be added. And after billions of savings on care, another 132 million goes to institutions. Those are fine investments, which are also much needed. Still, it's kind of like taking someone's race bike and giving it back a tricycle. That is exactly what our Prime Minister had in mind when he took office five years ago: a smaller government, more market and more economic growth. We sometimes think that this Prime Minister is confused with vision; I have said that myself. Nothing could be further from the truth. He's been Prime Minister for five years now. With his liberal agenda, in which he himself claims to be dogmatic, he is firmly on course. The government has become considerably smaller. And despite all the cuts in recent years, the high incomes have been spared time and again. In this Millions note, too, the most wealthy benefit fully. You get 6% more childcare allowance, even if you earn more than a ton. And you don't pay a top rate until later. There's something else the Prime Minister will be pleased about. Since January 1st we have the toughest assistance ever. If you're on welfare now, you're a suspect. Then you must be one of those fat-ass messed-up guys who'd rather get benefits than work. Then you applied for benefits instead of looking for a job, and you haven't fought hard enough. Social security, the housing market, care, the labour market: much has been reformed under the cabinet, but little has changed. We have received more of the same: more right-wing recipes aimed at economic growth, more market and less government. It is an illusion to think that with those right-hand recipes you can also achieve left-wing goals. Collective spending is not necessarily a blessing. A smaller government, more market, more economic growth: it does not lead to good education, it does not lead to better care and it does not lead to more work. And yet the further strengthening of economic growth remains central, as I read in the Millions Note. That's exactly the focus we need to get rid of. Economic growth an sich says nothing about our quality of life if it is at the expense of safety in Groningen, to name but a few. This growth does not mean anything if it is due to the construction of three new coal plants. It doesn't say anything if it's the result of building more asphalt and more pollution. That central focus on growth leads to wrong choices, but it's apparently the only thing holding the PvdA and the VVD together. Because as soon as the focus on economic growth disappears...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u467	You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u468	Yeah, disappears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u469	Oh, it sounded like more was coming! I give the floor to Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u470	It will not surprise Mr Klaver that I welcome his words about the limited focus on economic growth in this cabinet, for which economic growth is the answer to all the ailments. But he also mentioned the fact that the Prime Minister has been Prime Minister for five years. I have seen in the last five years that GroenLinks has helped to keep this Prime Minister in the saddle. I don't understand that very well. Mr Klaver says that the cabinet is driving economic growth and a smaller government and has no regard for the vulnerable, but why has GroenLinks held a cabinet with Rutte at the wheel over the last five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u471	First of all, thank you for the great honour that it would be thanks to GroenLinks that the cabinet is still there, but I think that is a little too much honor. If Mrs Thieme asks me why we have tried to work with the cabinet at some points to achieve results, I have only one answer: I am in a hurry. We're in a hurry; we don't have time to wait. And if we can make sure, as we did in 2012, that a coal tax is being introduced, unfortunately, which is now abolished, or if we manage to make additional investment in education available, then we are working on it. That has nothing to do with which cabinet there is. It has to do with the fact that we want to achieve results as soon as possible. You're looking for the majorities that are there at the time. I hope, Mrs Thieme, that we can work with you more often on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u472	If Mr Klaver is in favour of a system change, he should not hold a cabinet that preaches business as usual, which continues along the same path of economic growth. Then you have to say at some point: this is not good for the country and this is not good for the climate; I am not going to act as a tolerating partner for such a cabinet. But GroenLinks has done so in the last five years. I therefore hope that with this new sound I will have to admit that, and I am very pleased to hear from GroenLinks that it does not just go along with a cabinet that does not have the right vision of how we are going to shape a sustainable society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u473	If you really want to change society and change the system, it doesn't work with a big bang. You'll have to look for what I call game changers. How can you ultimately change the course of history? For sustainability, something that we both consider to be very important, this is an important part of our tax system. It is in the way we tax energy, including renewable energy. The question is whether we are giving coal-fired power stations a price. It would be good if this autumn, when we are talking about 5 billion reductions, we could achieve results in this respect. Because even if I tabled a motion of censure, the cabinet is not yet gone. If we reach agreement on this point, we will eventually be able to change the course of history. It'll take a long time. Maybe it'll take another ten years, but we can use that path. Mrs Thieme, I would hope that you would join us. This isn't our cabinet. I do not share the vision of this cabinet. But if we manage to find a majority to take a few steps in the right direction to change that system, we both want to do so. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u474	Because in recent years we have seen that the PvdA, the only party in this cabinet that still cares a little about sustainability, suffers from the VVD. The PvdA does not dare to set an independent course for sustainability. Any proposal we have made so far in the Chamber is not supported by the PvdA because it is being held hostage by the VVD. I think it would be much better for this country if we stopped supporting this cabinet by acting as a partner, not even over the next year and a half. I think it's time for a new election.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u475	Even if there are new elections, you will eventually have to look for majorities again. There is a good chance that there will be another cabinet or that you or I will not be needed for such a majority, so that our parties are not in the cabinet. We may differ in that, Mrs Thieme, but I will take every moment of the day, every year and every month to see how you can bring about change. Because I think you shouldn't just talk and say beautiful words. I would very much like to see the change in course you are taking at GroenLinks or what you are talking about, the critical way in which we talk about our economic system, not just words, but real action. Only then will my mission, our mission, succeed. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the focus on economic growth. As soon as it disappears, the VVD and the PvdA are opposite each other. They're very proud of that, because they'll come out eventually. But that is a paper reality, because the letters and chords are so vague that the PvdA and the VVD can make completely opposite sounds. If Zijlstra says that flexible employment should become the norm, Minister Asscher sees it as an American society without protection. Minister Kamp doesn't make any effort to enforce the judge's ruling in the climate case. He already needs all the teeth to achieve the current goals, he says, while Secretary of State Mansveld says she's going to do everything in her power to implement the ruling. In my view, Secretary of State Mansveld is the most widely mentioned Secretary of State during these General Political Reviews; I do not know whether that deserves to be mentioned. Zijlstra says: we need more refugees in the region. Samsom says thank God I don't have to think about it. Yes, Mr Zijlstra and Mr Samsom say that we disagree fundamentally, but we can provide a solution to any problem together. However, the proposals put forward by the cabinet do not bridge them. They are only a solution for one problem: the staggering bridge between the coalition parties. The cabinet flees in false solutions and depoliticize seems like the new rule. That's powerless politics. At the end of the coalition agreement, this cabinet still has a piece of cabinet time left over, as if it were a welfare mother. We cannot afford that: even more study groups, national dialogues and investigations to postpone action. We can't afford that now that 60 million people are on the run around the world. That's the highest number since World War II. We cannot afford that now that CO emissions are increasing again and we are dumping even more waste into the air, while we are the last generation to be able to curb global warming. We cannot afford to do that, because we still have 600,000 people unemployed today, some 65,000 of whom, moreover, thanks to the cuts in health care. The cabinet must rule. Isn't it better if we meet somewhere else? It's an idea. Put a curl through that coalition chord. The Prime Minister gets a nice sticker on his report because it's been executed. The new challenges ahead of us are treating the coalition as if it were a free matter. Then Mr Samsom and I can, as I said in an interruption, pick up the glove. Let us come up with ideas and plans to ultimately reduce CO emissions. Let's come to a final climate budget. Let us come to an approach to dealing with the large numbers of refugees. For what has changed the image of Europe over the last few months? There are barbed wire fences along the border. You see groups of refugees, walking along the highway, refugees at the stations screaming for freedom and respect for their human rights; a little human rights but, they say. Sandwiches are thrown into groups of refugees, like they were too dirty to touch. And every time there are reports of people who have died in the Mediterranean. If you see those messages, we fail as Europe and then we fail as the Netherlands and if we fail to do something about it, then we fail as humanity. The European Heads of Government have been staring at one of the greatest human tragedies of the 21st century for months now. On Monday, the asylum ministers decided to postpone for another three weeks; three weeks! And through the speech of the throne, the cabinet reports that the flow of refugees does not tolerate a waiting attitude and asks for sharp choices to limit that influx. But building even more fences is not the solution, not for refugees, not for countries in the region that fall over, not for Europe. Let's stop this powerless politics, let's not run away from it. There's gonna be a lot of refugees. However, the cabinet assumes that 14,000 fewer asylum seekers will come to the Netherlands next year and in the following years. What does the cabinet base itself on? Does it sometimes expect fires in Syria and Eritrea to magically disappear, that the Azmani plan will work next year? The cabinet expects fewer refugees and therefore cuts almost half a billion euros in reception, with the bill being paid by the poorest. The money comes entirely from the development cooperation budget. That's right, isn't it? That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. I appeal from the bottom of my heart to our Prime Minister: stop waiting; take a step forward; let the fear of doing more than others take us hostage; form a leading group with countries that do want a real approach, such as Germany, France, Austria and Sweden. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so? I'm also asking the Prime Minister when he's going into the country. When is he going to talk to the citizens who are now worried about the shelters that are coming near them? That's all the more important after the show we saw tonight. What's the Prime Minister gonna do about it? We must give the people who come to the Netherlands and who really do not just go back, who probably stay here, the chance to integrate into our society from day one. We have to give them the chance to learn Dutch, to work. We need to get their kids to go to school. Schools at present indicate that they are totally unprepared for the arrival of refugee children. I want the cabinet to clarify the procedure. Is attention paid to the sometimes traumatic experiences the children have? I want there to be sufficient expertise and adequate funding for both primary and secondary schools. I read in the budget for SZW that, unfortunately, the preparation and integration will be cut in 2016. In 2015, 32 million went there and in 2016 it is 28 million. Shouldn't that budget be up? In any case, the Klever motion (19637, No. 2032), adopted last Thursday, calling for a better course in Dutch and work opportunities for asylum seekers in the asylum procedure. Integration from day one; how does the cabinet intend to implement it? Not only when it comes to refugee shelters, powerless political high tides prevail. President Obama finally dares to move in the United States. He dares to defy the opposition; not enough yet, but politically it is an important movement. What is the Netherlands leading in? Not in the share of clean energy, not in the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions; the Netherlands is at the forefront as the first country where the judge had to force the government into an ambitious climate policy. Even that doesn't motivate the cabinet to action. The Secretary of State says she's going to implement the ruling, but in her note, because that's all it was, there's no measure at all. The cabinet does not consider that it has to do this year to be sufficiently substantiated. That's a weakness offer. All independent energy experts, including the Planning Office for the Environment, say that we cannot wait another year, that we need to take action now. But this cabinet prefers to wait for the advice of officials from its own ministry. In fact, that is the same as saying: those CPB calculations on the 3% standard are not sufficiently substantiated and we are asking our own finance minister to do the math. I would like to hear exactly from the Prime Minister why it is not sufficiently substantiated. What scientific evidence is he coming up with now? But most of all, I don't want us to waste another year. GroenLinks has now come up with its own climate budget. A plan must be put in place to reduce greenhouse gases by 25%, a basis for cooperation. Of course, that can be amended. Come up with all the proposals, I'd say, but not without cover. I have been hearing this Prime Minister say for five years now that no blame has been passed on to future generations. This also applies to climate and CO2 emissions, isn't it? While the cabinet does nothing to stop global warming and does far too little to take on human dignity, 5 billion is wasted, unfocused, ill-thought-out, nonsense. We need to get more greening. Again, we can talk about the precise details. We have announced our proposals but are always open to a good discussion. We didn't run away from the conversations before the summer, because we realize all too well that there is a unique opportunity. A tax review only occurs once every ten years, and we should not miss that opportunity. Mr Zijlstra and Mr Samsom felt the same way last year, at least they felt that taxes really needed to be reformed. It wasn't just supposed to be a relief. Let me be clear: a package without greening cannot count on the support of the Green Left Group. Another problem with the cabinet's spread is that it hardly leads to new jobs, 35,000 in the long term. Someday, someday, they'll come. Disappearing is the ambition to create 100,000 jobs, while unemployment is still high. Why, then, was there any choice to reduce the burden at all? According to the CPB, this is one of the least efficient ways of creating jobs. Choosing a strong society and more jobs can also be different. A strong society in which the disabled gets the job he was promised. Now the daily spending has been cut off but the job is not yet in sight. A strong society in which municipalities can provide lonely elderly people with sufficient home care and district nurses have sufficient time to offer them. Now the elder has lost his or her regular caregiver and the district nurse is mainly busy filling out forms. A strong society in which schools are given the opportunity to develop all the talents of their students. Now schools are charged on the test scores of their students and they get an inadequate rate if a student does not seem to be able to cope with the vwo. We can't and shouldn't pay off schools on return. What a teacher can do for a student is not to be expressed in money. Let's stop that. Teachers, parents, students: they crave it. We can do something for them today. I want to know if the Prime Minister agrees with me on this point. Finally. I started with a thought-experiment and I want to end with a thought-experiment of another great philosopher: Halbe Zijlstra. Two years ago, he asked us to imagine that we would wash 150 Members of Parliament on an uninhabited island, as we are sitting here in this Chamber. Every time I think about it, I get that children's song in my head. He asked us to think about what we'd do. It was a nice speech, I must say. I'm not going to repeat it completely now, but the point of his story was: if we wash up on an uninhabited island, we'll just set up a small government together. Apart from the question of whether that is true, the point is as follows. We don't live on an uninhabited island. The Netherlands is part of a world with which we know our connection. Our borders do not consist of vast water around us. Refugees knock for a little bit, just a little bit, fellow humanity. Dirty air travels across borders unsolicited. The Netherlands is not an island and therefore let us not act like one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u476	I have a question about the scope of the concept that Mr Klaver has been with in the media so often lately: economics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u477	That's very well pronounced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u478	Yes, it's a wonderful word for Wordfeud; you can earn a lot of points. I wonder how Mr Klaver applies that word. I haven't read his book yet. I apologize for that. Maybe it's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u479	That's a very good question. I am not writing about it, but tackling forced prostitution seems to me an excellent idea. That is very important, because we need to ensure that human traffickers do not get a grip on young girls to abuse them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u480	It may seem a bit strange to link that up, but all I have to do is quote Mayor Van der Laan from Amsterdam. He says: 400 women are raped every night in Amsterdam for money. We also know from the figures from the Public Prosecutor's Office and from aid workers that about 70% of women, and sometimes also men, have been forced into prostitution. Sometimes, human trafficking is behind this, and money is the driving force in this. I would like GroenLinks to join with the parties that want to tackle this. The answer of the Clover reassures me. Actually, we've missed that a little bit in recent years. Perhaps Mr Klaver, with economics and a broader application of it, can now join that camp too? We'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u481	I do not entirely agree that Mr Slob missed us in that camp. I cannot imagine that any predecessor of mine has ever made a plea for forced prostitution. Where Mr Slob may have missed us, it is in the camp of the solutions that are being seen and when it comes to banning prostitution and that sort of thing. We are actually more in favour of giving the sex workers a firmer position and not pushing them into illegality. That may be another solution, but it is a solution with the same objective, namely to tackle trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u482	There will be an initiative bill that a few parties are working on, among other things by the SP and... Help me...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u483	I can't help you with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u484	The Labour Party is also involved in this, along with Mr Segers of my group. We want to criminalise the visit of prostitutes by clients or clients, as I call them, but there are other words to use for that too, if there is reason to suspect that they are part of human trafficking. Could GroenLinks support that? I ask this very carefully, but with the silent hope that Mr Klaver will once again release his concept of 'economicism' on such legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u485	I'm sorry to admit I don't know the bill. So I find it very difficult to indicate whether or not we can support it. I'm going to read it with great interest and come back to it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u486	Madam President. It is no secret that the SGP Group is not an admirer of American President Obama. Our sympathy usually goes more to the Republicans. Nevertheless, I must say that Obama surprised us positively shortly before the summer. It wasn't a speech, it wasn't a law, it wasn't a plan, but he sang a song: the world-famous Amazing Grace. The film became a hit worldwide. During Mr Buma's speech, there was applause at about four o'clock. In the State Passage there was a spontaneous action in which this song was sung. That video can also be followed and now also a hit. The lyrics were sung beautifully. If you are wondering whether parliamentarians are singing in the Lower House, I would like to come back to that at the end of my speech. Now I want to talk about the singing of Obama. Why did he do that? What happened? I checked that again, because these were fascinating images and because the video hit a lot of people. What happened? In Charleston, in the state of South Carolina, a 21-year-old shooter committed a massacre in an African Methodist Church. The black preacher and eight other members of the church were brutally shot. Racism was the motive. Amazing! During a memorial service following this astonishing massacre, American President Amazing Grace set in. It's an old song. John Newton, an ex-slave dealer, wrote it in 1773. "Astonishing grace, who saved a poor man like me. I was lost at first, but now I'm found. I was blind, but now I see." That slave merchant had come to repentance. He inspired the English parliamentarians William Wilberforce in his struggle for the abolition of slavery and for countless other reforms. It became his lust and it became his life to be a star witness to the unimaginable grace of God. That's why he wrote this song about pure mercy and undeserved goodness. I also heard those deep grace notes in the impressive story of an African child soldier of 14 years old. That story was as horrible as what had happened in Charleston: his ears, fingers and toes were cut off. In the hospital, his torturer was lying next to him. The nurse heard that, and she expected that mutilated boy to be full of hate and revenge. But to her surprise, it wasn't. She asked the boy, "Why not? How come you're not full of hate and revenge?" The boy said, "I've been working on it all night, but I'm afraid I would have done the same in his situation. Besides, I want to forgive, otherwise the world will never get better. I want to forgive, otherwise the world will never get better." Once upon a time those were Nelson Mandela's first words, as a free man after years of imprisonment: forgiveness and peace! Fighting hatred with reconciliation and mercy! Amazing Grace. Who doesn't make dirty hands? Who can do without mercy? Every man in his time senses that without grace, without forgiveness, it is no life. No one is too good for that and no one is too bad for that. That good message is there for everyone, whoever you are. I would like to emphasise this very strongly today, precisely because we, as Christian political parties, regularly refer in various debates to biblical rules of life that are aimed at good for people. We do this with conviction, because we believe that, as in music, only a pianist who knows and applies the laws of music can produce something really beautiful. You can't do that if you're just messing with those keys. These references to biblical rules of life can, of course, lead to misunderstandings for people who never set foot in the church, and there are a lot of these days. I am thinking of the misunderstanding that the core of Christian faith is the observance of rules and the misunderstanding that Christians think themselves better than others. And I say with emphasis: that is not the case. A church is not a meeting place for half saints, good Hendriken or pharisee knowers. It is a place of refuge for those who are in need and who are shy for mercy and mercy. Madam President. That's how Amazing Grace gets to us in the heart. It also affects our attitude towards others. It is precisely the realization that we are all dependent on mercy that also makes us lenient towards fellow human beings, whoever they are. It is wonderful when victims of injustice do not choose and forgive the African child soldier, but at the same time it is an appeal to governments to practice justice. Evil must be contained. In January terrible attacks were carried out in Paris. Europe was rightly turned upside down. On the same day I stood with a delegation from our group at a mass grave in Nigeria. Ten days before that, dozens of villagers were killed by Boko Haram, who in cruelty does not suffer for ISIS. The world didn't know about it. There wouldn't have been a diplomat. There wouldn't have been a reporter. There hadn't been a politician, so they told in that village. After returning to the Netherlands, I drew attention to this. I am pleased to say that I have also expressed my support for this with Minister Koenders and broad in the Chamber and have found a willing ear for it. That is why today's plea: cabinet, continue to address Nigeria and support Boko Haram. Promote help to girls who have been traumatized by what they have been through. Luckily, a lot of kidnappings have been released. Much has already been said today about world events, the refugee problem, the wars that exist. The world bleeds out of a thousand wounds. I can't believe how many people are on the run around the world! The Vivalditons of an Arabic spring have been roughly demolished. A grieving march replaced it. In view of these flows of refugees, in a nutshell, this is what the SGP stands for: as many people as possible receive as close as possible to their place of origin. There are no easy solutions. On the one hand, we must offer compassionate innkeepers to refugees who fear for their lives. On the other hand, we must set clear limits on migrants who cannot stay here. That is the commitment of the SGP. All these fires and conflicts also show that in this broken world, unfortunately, tanks and aircraft are needed to deter and combat terrorism. When last Saturday morning the Minister of Security and Justice took part in the Netherlands' favorite music, we even checked him on Radio 4, he started with Tchaikovsky's Overture 1812. If I understood correctly, in this piece, the cannon bulge was particularly appealing to him. I appreciate his musical taste, but I'll add: we don't win the war with that, of course. If you're just looking at what's going on with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary, I'm really wondering if there's enough money available for that. I get the impression that we have already discussed it in detail today: the budget for security and justice is not in order. Why doesn't the Cabinet invest in our security anymore? The Defence budget also shows deficits. For years, the Defense Boxes have been looted. We're out of bullets and spare parts. Tanks and planes are gone. Fortunately, a change has finally come. Last year, Parliament also supported the motion that called for a good plan and more money. Indeed, it has been mentioned with pride a number of times today, among others by Mr Zijlstra: there is now a lot of extra money. That's true. The beginning is here. But we still need a lot more money. We propose to do more in the coming year and to keep that commitment in the years after. When Obama Amazing raised Grace and sang, "I was blind, but now I see," that was also a call to the American population as a whole. Are there blind spots? Do we even know what's wrong in our country? I think that's a good question, including for our country. Do we see what goes wrong? If you asked all the parties here about blind spots, you'd get very different answers. If the SGP were to be asked to mention three abuses for which, in her view, there is not enough eye, I would like to take up that glove. First of all, I would like to mention a violation of the right to be born. The mass killing of unborn life has become awfully normal. The abortion law was adopted with the shortest possible majority at the time. Many voters said: we are not in favour of abortion either, but see it as an extreme possibility in inevitable emergencies. If that has become the line, how could this be more than 30,000 times a year? Why then, at least, no longer do so in order to prevent emergency situations which were referred to by those who voted in favour of it? Does the Cabinet want to bet on that? The second blind spot is children's problems due to fighting and infidelity between fathers and mothers. It destroys a lot of love and beauty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u487	Mr Pechtold, an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u488	It may be known that there is a world of difference between SGP and D66. I think we should respect each other in that. However, I think that the SGP comes too often with that figure of 30,000, if that would be a kind of convenience, if it were a simple choice for some kind of delayed contraception. Does Mr Van der Staaij know how partners deal with such abortions, that this is a very conscious, considered step, which often leads to a lot of pain? You should not say too easily that it is used by people as an easy step and that the consequences are not considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u489	It is absolutely not my intention to easily ignore the struggle that people have with it or to say that it is all happening lightly. However, studies show that, for example, financial motives are an important reason for abortion. Moreover, you can also see that abortion takes place at 12, 13 or 14 weeks. I notice that there is a change in the country, because we know better and better that in twelve, thirteen weeks it has been a baby with everything, with fingers and a beating heart. There are also pictures of them, which some also see as iconic photos. How come we're gonna think that's normal? I went to an abortion clinic and talked to an abortion doctor there. I said, "How can a midwife talk about this like a baby and you're talking about a lump of meat? Does that do justice to reality?" Her answer was: "But the House of Representatives is okay with it, isn't it? You say in The Hague that there is no problem if you, even if there is a more advanced pregnancy, have an abortion?" I found that confrontational. We can say, "The people know what they are doing." They say: but politics has an important responsibility in this by saying that it can be done under special circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u490	Yes, it can be done under special circumstances. It is a right of women and a right of the partners to judge it in their own individual cases. That is something Mr van der Staaij may think differently, but the suggestion he raises with the numbers that it still happens at 12 or 13 weeks because it is not convenient, I am far from it. I think that the debate should remain in that perspective, and it is a good thing that Mr Van der Staaij should quote it again in the General Reviews. He may not choose it with his faith, but I stand for the right of people who have thought about it themselves as adults to make a conscious choice. I insist that they have that right and, more importantly, keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u491	It is true that we are opposed to each other, but it would be a good thing if this discussion were to be deepened. I miss it in the Netherlands compared to, for example, a discussion at Harvard University. An advocate of abortion, someone like the right-wing philosopher Michael Sandel, says that it is actually about the moral status of unborn life. He even says it sharper than I do: if it is indeed a life of protection, there is in fact a murder. So says this American professor, who himself is in favour of abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u492	I believe that Mr Van der Staaij, whom I respect very much, should not hide behind an American professor to take the word'murder' in his mouth. Then say it yourself! If he thinks so, he should say so. Then we'll be face-to-face. I don't think you should say that's what a professor thinks. No, you've studied the matter, as I have, and you're responsible for a position, just like I do. I think you'd go too far if you put that down as a murder. Why don't you go talk to those parents? Your party is precisely the party that believes that partners should stay together, no matter what happens. There may be circumstances that have led partners to find themselves in a situation in which they have to make that choice. I believe that the government should stay out of it, because fortunately we have given the right in our free democracy, first and foremost to women and secondly, in consultation with her partner, how to deal with it. There are checks on that, it's not just happening and it's definitely not murder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u493	My point is that we lack the protection of unborn life. If you think it is a very important point that unborn life is also protective, that it also has a right to be born, then there are emotions on the other side. I'll try not to block the conversation and the debate with my remarks. That is why I do not need to express myself as strongly as possible. I sincerely try to have a discussion that goes beyond the idea that as a SGPer you are automatically opposed to abortion and that the others are automatically in favour. That was really different in the discussion in the 1980s. There were also many from other camps, including from D66, who had the greatest difficulty with that. That's completely gone by naming it only as a right. That was the first blind spot. A second blind spot is there for children's problems due to quarrel and infidelity between fathers and mothers. That destroys a lot of love and beauty. We were glad to be surprised that support for the ikgavoorwelding.nl campaign came from all over the Dutch society. When is the cabinet going to say we're going for loyalty? What does the Cabinet do to prevent children from getting in trouble? What's the answer to the alarming number of divorces? As a third blind spot, I would like to mention the value of rest, especially that of Sunday rest. Unfortunately, more and more municipalities offer Sunday rest to another shopping day. I know that this responsibility now lies with municipalities, but it is still a national responsibility, namely to protect citizens from forced Sunday work. Does the Labour Inspectorate check this out? The SGP Group appreciates the fact that the commitment, including towards the SGP, to do something for a earner has been set out in the financial statements. That is what we are seeing now. For the first time in years, mostone-earners do not have to turn in. It is good that extra money goes to families through the child-related budget, but more needs to be done here too. Why does the cabinet continue to punish one-earner's families through the tax rules? Does the cabinet recognise that this increases the gap between one and two-earners? If this problem is really tackled, it is not only fairer, but also good for carers. The changes in the health care system increasingly require carers. They deserve extra support. Would the cabinet like to examine whether it is possible to make demonstrable costs incurred by carers deductible from the tax? And does the cabinet want to motivate municipalities to make more work of good support and equipment for carers? More money sometimes helps solve problems. It can give a boost to, for example, raising the quality of nursing homes. Nevertheless, more must be done than pulling the wallet. Care has good drivers, appreciation for the workplace and love for the people who receive care. Education needs inspired teachers with a warm heart for the student. Does the government want to actively promote this good governance, without coming up with new rules and rules? Is there really more trust given to professionals? It's nice that the economy attracts, but it's also been watchful. The budget shows that the structural budget deficit is increasing again. Well, that sounds like a lot of potting. Soon we'll have to make substantial cuts again in lean years. It's better to be more careful now! Compromising between the PvdA and the VVD doesn't always have to be bad. Sometimes it is even wise to combine the good of the left and the right. Then everyone is satisfied, like strings, horns and percussionists in an orchestra form a harmonious whole. But that doesn't always go well. Sometimes a false note sneaks in. Unfortunately, I also encounter them in the Prince's Daypieces. Then I'm talking about the tax on savings. The message of the cabinet was earlier: we get it, it's not fair that people have to pay taxes on the basis of a supposed return that is impossible to achieve. However, what is happening now is cow-trading. Isn't it weird that older people who just sold their house are about to pay more taxes? It's like getting a speeding ticket, not because you're speeding, but because you could drive your car fast. Cabinet, do something about that dishonesty. This year we are considering 200 years of Kingdom and 200 years of parliament. Because I started my speech with the singing Obama, I checked whether MPs have ever sang during debates. The answer is yes, at least in the late afternoon of 11 July 1919. The Social Democrats were very proud when the eight-hour working day was anchored in the Labour Act. After the vote, they rose up as one man, and unanimously lifted up a red battle song. The right-wing delegates were briefly bewildered, but soon the militant general Duymaer of Twist straightened his back and put the Wilhelmus firmly as a counter-song. The Nieuwe Rotterdamsche Courant knows how to report that he was also singing loudly. Perhaps for the first time, the Wilhelmus reverberated through the conference room. The chairman hastened to close the sitting with a hammer-clap. There is no provision that singing is prohibited during the meeting. Apparently, music in politics is difficult to harmonize with a good meeting order. The music has one thing for politics: if you make different voices, it's called a nice choir in the music. In politics, these different voices are called an ugly cacophony. However, I believe that listening to these very different voices has added value. It can protect from blind spots. That is why it is a bad idea to introduce an electoral threshold, which I hear from time to time. No, I'm not worried about the SGP, given the steady growth, but you should also think about others. It would be sad if we didn't see the PvdA or the VVD back in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u494	That is why I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that he does not see music in an electoral threshold. Finally, I wish the members of the cabinet, as well as our fellow MEPs, strength, wisdom and God's blessing for the new parliamentary year and, above all, Amazing Grace!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u495	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the largest and most expensive election campaign in history. The most expensive election campaign so far was for Obama's reelection. It cost as much as $1 billion. In the Netherlands 5 billion in tax money is invested in the reelection campaign of the PvdA and the VVD. They have to. They cannot afford elections and so the discontent about the present cabinet must be rubbed away. So an emergency plan, a budget with lots of presents. The VVD plays itself in this strategy game more budget for Defense. The PvdA gives some gifts to young parents, to people who want longer parental leave and to nursing homes, but after they were first stripped to the bone and then attacked with the cheese bowl. And now a Band-Aid on a poignant wound, with no prospect of real healing. Of course, citizens would like to believe that the economy is doing better, that mortgages that are now under water can soon be brought back to dry, that you have a job that may be on the move now but will soon be able to provide certainty that your parents or your grandparents who are being cared for in a nursing home or at home will be able to get it back. The economy seems to be growing again, as we hear from the CPB, but is there economic recovery? Many citizens who are sick or who lose their jobs do not notice. Certainly, the European Central Bank has turned on the money press. EUR 60 billion per month is printed. But to derive from that now that there is a healthy economic development, thinking is that you could pull yourself out of the swamp by your hair. There is still a growth and debt addiction. This free money from Brussels will benefit the financial sector in particular and not the real economy. It does not create permanent additional jobs. That's some kind of recovery you wouldn't wish anyone. More than 1 million Dutch people are feverishly looking for work: people who are thrown out after a long and faithful employment because they have become too expensive. They must register with the UWV within five days, otherwise they will not receive a benefit. If they approach the UWV too quickly, they will be dismissed by the Prime Minister as grabbers or labbers in the words of the Chairman of the Employers' Association. The structural tax reform announced has not been achieved. The Secretary of State described this development months ago as "a missed opportunity." That's an understatement. It's not just a missed opportunity. This is the missed opportunity which has permanently lost the support base under this cabinet. Wage taxes remain structurally too high, leaving labour too expensive. A structural reduction in wage charges and a shift towards a more taxing of polluters could be an excellent solution. However, that solution has not been used for the VVD, so the PvdA does not dare. With such a tax reform, we could not only help hundreds of thousands of people into jobs, but also contribute significantly to a sustainable and future-proof society. In this way, we can make labour cheap and no jobs disappear to low-wage countries. This will enable us to rehire each other to provide services and thereby promote employment. This is how we get our own manufacturing economy. We could appoint more teachers so that there would be more guidance for those students who need more tailor-made work or more people to take care of the elderly and the sick. Now, however, people in healthcare are being laid off massively while care demand in the Netherlands is growing sharply. It is striking how little innovative the cabinet looks at the major challenges surrounding care and income and a viable planet. The cabinet continues to think about fossil; thinking that we should simply focus on economic growth as a means against every ailment. More and more people realize that such thinking has not provided more certainty, happiness and justice in recent decades. On the contrary, people are more angry and insecure than ever. The financial crisis, the banking crisis, the climate crisis; they make it so clear that the system has completely stalled. People say they crave a society where things of real value come to the centre, not the money. They prefer job security and a pension rather than speculation on pensions in order to achieve unrealistically high returns with high risks of losses. They expect the government on behalf of all of us to ensure that our food is fair, sustainable and safe, because as an individual you have so little influence on it. They expect polluters to be dealt with, such as companies using dangerous poison in toys, in candy and/or in fields. Why, that's what I hear around me, doesn't the government do? How can it be that if the government is convicted by the judge because it does too little against climate change, the same government appeals? What are the interests of such a government? How can a citizen believe that the government is trying to make children grow up healthy, if the same government allows nature to disappear and the green living environment to shrink or if yet another business site or megatal is being built? We see around us an increase in welfare diseases such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disease. How can you cut back EUR 1.5 billion on healthcare at the expense of jobs and vulnerable people, while saving EUR 4 to 8 billion in healthcare costs if we invest much more in preventive health care, such as healthy nutrition, movement and psychological help? The Cabinet does not take up the role of protecting those fragile values. It opts for free trade and has money printed up to cover up its own failure and its own budget deficit. Over the next few years, it will build up investment in climate policy, while living below sea level and having a very strong interest in sound climate policy. The cabinet is turning people's minds with cheerful stories about economic growth. This is when we have to realise that economic growth is not the solution, but the problem, and never long-term benefits people and animals in a vulnerable position. The cabinet does not seem to have any sense of the fact that the system of infinite economic growth is an illusion on a planet that does not grow along. The Netherlands is a major consumer in the world of raw materials and resources from other countries. On August 13th of this year it was Earth Overshoot Day for the world. That is not a kind of mother's day, but a balance day that marks that we are through the natural resources that the earth can provide for this year, such as fresh water, wood and food. In 1981, the Earth Overshoot Day fell on December 14th. In the years that followed, that day fell ever earlier; this year on August 13th. For the Netherlands as a large consumer of raw materials, the day already fell on April 1st, and that is not a joke. So everything we consume and produce now is done with the natural capital that is destined for future generations. That's how we exhaust the Earth. That is not necessary at all, because the earth offers enough for everyone's needs but not for everyone's greed. Chasing economic growth on a planet that doesn't grow along is irresponsible. We can and must change that system, but harmful overconsumption behaviour is not reflected in the Millions Note and in the CPB figures. If the next winter gets colder than normal and we start using more gas, then gross domestic product increases. Then we say that the economy is doing well and therefore with our country. Is that what the cabinet means by economic growth and rising prosperity? Ask the Groningen people if the use of gas contributes a bit to their prosperity, then you get a completely different picture. More than ever, there is a need for a Millions note setting out the plans of how we can achieve a real improvement and sustainability of our society. The most important choice of this moment is: your money or your life. The government parties are pursuing a society in which more consumption is the highest goal. The government is powerless to come up with system reforms that could lead to real improvements. The coalition of water and fire is so divided in itself that its powerlessness sprang from it. As long as we accept that all concerns and desires are expressed in money, in the growth of gross domestic product and in purchasing power figures, we are trapped in one-sided economic logic. The importance of nature and biodiversity is seen by the government in particular in its economic value. My group has strongly rejected the Cabinet Nature Act, because it leaves the cabinet to the market for the protection of animals and nature, just as it leaves the protection of people dependent on care to the market. Everything that makes life worthwhile and gives meaning is literally marketed. The market has developed into a new religion in politics The Hague, which tolerates no contradiction and uses slogans that could have been devised by Jacobse and Van Es: no bullshit, everyone rich; together for our own. This thinking in the Netherlands is also the breeding ground for the increasing flows of refugees. The increasing flow of refugees not only shows the great concerns of people from faraway countries who are in great trouble, but also brings with them concerns for the people here. Many people wonder whether Europe, or the Netherlands, can continue to accept the refugees. After all, in the coming years tens of millions of people are expected to flee hunger, drought and war and come to Europe. Isn't that at the expense of our own capabilities? That's a common question. Will tensions continue if, for example, European redistribution does not work because of the open borders? This week we have seen the poignant situations in Eastern European refugee camps. Europe clearly has no answer to the increasing flow. Mercy and compassion must be guiding. My group expects the cabinet to take measures to prevent people from fleeing, or at least attempting to do so. The Netherlands can't do it alone. We realize that. But we do have the opportunity to at least review and change our own behaviour, which creates conflicts and flows of refugees. The cabinet has not yet begun to do so. What do I mean? I refer to the trade policy of this cabinet, the supply of arms in the Netherlands and the lack of climate policy, which will increase the flow of refugees. We must send ground troops to Syria, as it sounds louder and louder, and then the flow of refugees will dry up. That is a naive and very dangerous mistake. The rather limited analysis that war and violence would be the main causes of a flow of refugees indicates how powerless the cabinet is to appoint the breeding ground for war and violence and to work for the removal of that breeding ground. We must dare to recognise that our overconsumption has a major impact on the livelihoods of people in vulnerable areas. Religious differences between people are relatively for a small part the cause of the problems. It is an important problem, but it is relatively small compared to what is really at stake. Indeed, it is the lack of the most basic needs such as water and food, often due to climate change, that drives people to the limit. When will the cabinet present an analysis of the problems that go beyond identifying civil wars as the ultimate cause of the refugee flows, an analysis that identifies the effects of climate change, our trade policy and arms supplies on stability in vulnerable countries and regions? NATO and the United Nations believe that these effects are significant. What impact does our agriculture and trade policy have on food security in the world? As a tax haven, the Netherlands facilitates the removal of the legitimate income of people in developing countries. Those revenues are now in the pockets of large multinationals with haunted offices on the Amsterdam Zuidas. This brings me to TTIP, the forthcoming free trade agreement between Europe and America, negotiated secretly in Brussels. TTIP is not a joke of Arjen Lubach but a real threat to our democracy, our privacy, food safety, animal welfare, the security of life of farmers and family businesses and developing countries. Our "aid is trade" minister is persistently focusing on new free trade agreements. Does the Cabinet have any regard for the destabilising effect of free trade agreements on family farms and poor country residents? I would like a substantive response on this point. The mantra of the throne speech was: recovery, economic recovery. However, recovery must be seen more broadly in a society suffering from serious ailments. Growth and recovery will have to be about greater humanity, more clean air, more nature, more biodiversity, more care, more animal welfare, more education, more health and more confidence in the future. Compassion and sustainability will have to form the core themes in a respectful society. We cannot continue to sacrifice the interests of people, animals, nature and the environment on the altar of the economy. That is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u496	Madam President. It's really there. I quote from the foreword of the Minister of Finance: we are sticking to the policy that the cabinet has been pursuing since 2012 of fair sharing. What do you mean, share honestly? If you use 5 billion only for the benefit of the workers and write that in bold letters in the Millions note, how dare you speak of fair sharing? What about the people who have worked for 40 years or more? It's only fair if the windfall would be distributed to people who work, people who have worked and people who really can't work. After all, it is all these groups that have been given billions of savings over the past decades. It was tens of billions of cuts that have struck deep wounds in the lives of many. Older people have shared in the acid; now let them share equally in the sweet. The cabinet states that there would be a cautious economic spring, hence the 5 billion relief. In doing so, the cabinet wants to create new jobs. That is a good goal, but we expect an unemployment rate of 6.7% in 2016. Last week, the ING Economic Bureau researched that unemployment among older people is a major challenge for the Dutch economy. Why does the Cabinet pick up this glove so hesitantly? Would it be a good idea, for example, to enable people to retire early by reducing the age of AOW, one-off or one-off, so that people who are now at home without a job finally have a chance of getting a job? Because we voluntarily offer one group the opportunity to stop working earlier, the other group gets a better perspective. In addition to creating more jobs and job vacancies, 50PLUS believes that additional investment is needed in solving older people's unemployment, a major social problem. This can really be more efficient than the huge sums of money that are now spent on inspiration days, subsidies for intermediaries and network drinks. You'll be out of work at 45 or 50. How much view do you ever have to get a job? In addition to the financial consequences, we should not underestimate the social consequences of unemployment, especially long-term unemployment. It has a huge impact on life. At the moment there are 270,000 people who have been writing letter after letter every week for a year without any reaction. That group deserves special attention. Can I ask the Cabinet two questions? Why is the age of the discount for hiring an older unemployed person increased from 50 to 56 years? And what about the project group to monitor progress on the theme? That is the project group agreed on under the policy agenda 2020. And now for the wallet. The development of the purchasing power of pensioners is downright lousy, especially in relation to the purchasing power of workers. On average, workers are allowed to add 2.5%, and pensioners are allowed to add 0.2% on average. But there are also hundreds of thousands of elderly people who have to turn in heavily, such as elderly people with a lot of care costs or people with an AOW-hole. That hasn't been much better in recent years. The gap between workers and pensioners is thus further widening. 50PLUS wants a structural purchasing power improvement for all older people. We ask the Cabinet to divide all measures affecting pensioners into structural and one-off measures prior to the second deadline and to indicate which of these measures also affect other groups. It is good to emphasize once again that not every older person has the same width. There are elderly people with only AOW. Many older people have AOW with a reasonable supplementary pension. There is also a group with AOW and a large pension. I'll walk them by with you. The group with only AOW has to live on a very low income. Sometimes it goes so far that people avoid caring, get into financial trouble and can no longer pay their living expenses. The Nibud shows that this group with care costs is declining €140 per month. That's unacceptable, isn't it? The group with AOW and a reasonable pension also has to do with this, but with these people also plays the stacking of various measures that make them barely get around and interneen on an often limited capacity. They too, according to the Nibud, go down to €200 per month; unbelievable. And that while the Throne speech states that purchasing power is maintained. Now I come to the group with AOW and a large pension. The cabinet calls this group "comfortably retired." These people are good in themselves, but why do they have to contribute more each time than people who work and have the same income? Why do they have to turn in more purchasing power than workers for years? Moreover, why do these seniors have to defend themselves every time they have a carefully built-up pension? Why are they being put away as profiteers? Profitors! They built it all by themselves. Then I'll come to health care. Over the past year I have experienced the concern up close, both the beautiful and the less beautiful sides. On the one hand, there is loving care. On the other hand, there's the huge amount of paperwork. Employees are very committed even outside their working hours, but feel limited by rules and guidelines. According to 50PLUS, the current healthcare system is not satisfactory. It's as simple as that. Everyone has the right to the same quality and quantity of care, and this system does not succeed on any account. You just have to wait and see what facilities there are in the municipality where you live. Healthcare insurers have too much influence; look in yesterday's newspaper. Conditions and quality requirements vary and bureaucracy is still unacceptablely high. Much more attention is needed, for example, for prevention, not only aimed at young people, but also, and perhaps correctly, at the elderly. I am thinking here of the fight against overweight, the drug check and vaccinations. All this will in the long term make a huge contribution to reducing costs. More and more often and more intensively people call on carers, while the support of these carers is unclear and insufficiently regulated. Can we leave this important to the individual municipalities? I'm holding my heart. Can we assume that the household allowance will now be dropped permanently? We assume that the Labour Party can now agree to a motion of this kind. 50PLUS was, and remains, not in favour of transferring important care tasks to municipalities. This creates inequality. There are examples left. Think of housing adjustment, income support for chronically ill and disabled people and the indiscriminate removal of domestic aid. Therefore, 50PLUS will try to eliminate this municipal legal inequality by means of national regulations. Madam President. There is already a shortage of nearly 100,000 suitable homes, while older people have to stay home longer. Given the current influx of refugees, that deficit will not be reduced quickly. There are simply far too few homes available in the social rental sector. What's the Cabinet gonna do about this? It's gotta be quick. There's no time left. Can I then insist that our older people should at least not be discriminated against? And now a comment on the budget for security and justice. He's got 50PLUS on his mind. With this budget and given the instability in the world and the threat of terrorism, the whole justice system is under enormous pressure. We therefore understand very well the comments made by several colleagues. Before I conclude, I would like to dwell on the refugee problem, which is a constant struggle between the heart and the head. The heart says that we give everyone a good future; however, the head says that not everyone can build that future in the Netherlands. It just can't be. 50PLUS supports plans for reception and future opportunities in the region, also supports the fight against trafficking in human beings and will also support a fair distribution of reception within the continent of Europe, and this cannot be unlimited. I'm gonna finish with a list. There are too many cuts in care for the elderly. The fight against older people's unemployment is insufficient. The prevention policy for older people is inadequate. The development of purchasing power remains poor for older people and the measures announced are not sufficient. All in all, there is absolutely no question of fair sharing. If we can believe the cabinet, it seems that we are moving economically back to a slightly more summerish picture. But when will it finally be a little spring for all the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u497	At least you'll have to wait two more seasons. Mr Krol and Mr Nagel were spotted in the turret. Have the wishes already been taken into account, or can we expect amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u498	I can tell you that we have been listened to very carefully, but we asked for 1 billion in structural terms, and I have not yet seen that in the budget. We can see that a small step has been taken in the right direction in comparison with the plans made six months ago, but that is completely inadequate in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u499	And what does that mean for the assessment of the Tax Plan? I ask this because you are expressing yourself quite clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u500	We're not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u501	Mr. Chairman. 2013 was a year of pain. 2014 was another year of pain. 2015 was another year of pain and now the cabinet, a year before the elections, is going to play for sintering class. This is part of the Hague game, but citizens no longer fall for it. Citizens are tired of playing political games. The cabinet looks like an outnumbered smartphone. The battery is dead and needs to power continuously. This budget is best described as a pacifier budget. The cabinet focuses on purchasing power recovery: everyone a plus; everyone a pacifier; a plus for the high incomes of the VVD and a plus for the middle incomes of the PvdA. But are voters gonna settle for that pacifier? Did they put aside their years of discontent for a plus? Is that pacifier gonna come out right after the election? Why aren't minima getting anything? The PvdA takes a right course and leaves the minima to the left. The most difficult people who have felt the pain of the economic crisis in recent years are not getting anything out of it. Politicians are primarily representatives of the people, but the gap between citizens and politics is widening. This reduces confidence in politics and reduces confidence in the democratic rule of law. And that's sad. The Netherlands hardens, rightens and roughens. Almost all points of Geert Wilders' ten-point plan from 2004 have been taken over by other political parties. I'm just saying: Geert Wilders is a xenophobic shepherd and a number of parties are running like easy sheep. But where does that herd go, so we wonder. To a meadow where only white sheep are welcome? To a meadow where black sheep are excluded? There they are, in box X, the box of the xenophobes of the PVV. It's really sad to see them contaminating politics with their little talk. In politics The Hague we are lagging behind the reality of society. Politics The Hague, for example, continues to talk crampedly about "integration," but integration should not be an issue at all. People who grew up here don't have to integrate at all. They're just Dutch. No one is more Dutch than anyone else. We are all Dutch and the Netherlands belongs to all of us. Get used to that, I'd say. From box X I go to the rest of the Chamber: look at us all sitting here. Are we a good reflection of society? Aren't there too many academics here, people who don't think from the point of view of practice but from the point of view of theory? People who know the world from research reports instead of straight from the street? Aren't there too few women here? The Netherlands has never had a woman as Prime Minister, Minister of Finance or Minister of Foreign Affairs. It's obvious: Mark Rutte prefers men. Look at them in box K: totally colourless. The only colour I can see in some is that of the last remains of the summer sun. And then they say there's plenty of color in the room. But I look to my right, then I see no color at all; nothing at all. They are on the left, but they are too often used by the established political parties as baits to attract voters. When they have to stand up for the people who elected them after the elections, they often don't give up at home. We at DENK call on all political parties and the cabinet to be a good reflection of society. Down with the high-ranking gentlemen from The Hague. Even ordinary men and women should be in politics, not grey technocratic rulers but people of flesh and blood. People of flesh and blood would have handled the refugee drama quite differently. That drama is the biggest challenge we face in Europe at the moment. What bothers us most about the refugee issue is selfishness and double morality. The cabinet plays peek-a-boo with refugees. Do not run away from the refugee problem, we would say. While the people in large majority call for action and mercy, the government points to the European Union and to the region. While the people want to take asylum seekers into their homes and give mass supplies to the COA, the cabinet says: less, less, less. We at DENK call unconditionally: more, more, more. And that's what reality calls for. Attacking the refugee issue is also double morale. The borders are open to the free market but must be closed to refugees. It is our political games that make poor countries unstable, but not the people who become displaced. The bombs on Iraq and Syria, but not the people who are not safe for their lives. But our slurp multinationals who rob the raw materials and keep the local population poor but not the people who do not have enough to eat. In fact, selfishness and double morality are also typical of government policy. That also makes sense if you let the VVD and the PvdA rule together, after they first campaigned hard against each other. The selfishness of the VVD and the powerlessness of Samsom's PvdA may lead to a balanced budget, but also to cold and heartless policies. That is why we at DENK would like to deal with the cabinet with a report figure. We think that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet is a class without excellencies. We also want to give them points of improvement so that they can get their grades. I'll start with Minister Dijsselbloem, the man who was so proud of his briefcase yesterday. You sometimes wonder if he's still a Social Democrat. Dijsselbloem looks like a technocrat who seems to have lost contact with the people. We'll give Minister Dijsselbloem a fiver. What does DENK expect from Minister Dijsselbloem? We expect him to deal with banks, citizens to get mortgages and small businesses to get credit. Now almost half of the applications for loans are rejected because banks do not find small loans interesting. And do more on those ridiculously high salaries and bonuses, Comrade Dijsselbloem, except at the food bank. In our view, the food bank is the only bank that deserves a bonus. Secretary of State Dijkhoff would like to praise his progressive insight into refugees. In Breda he gave a heartless speech some time ago, but recently he found his heart in the refugee debate. Now he wants to open up municipalities to refugees, and that's good. Now the rest of the cabinet and the rest of the European Union. We give Secretary of State Dijkhoff a 6. He is a "high potential" in this cabinet and DENK expects him more to realise this growth potential. It's about concrete action, Secretary of State. Let us finally arrange for refugees to study and work during their asylum procedure! Then they make a contribution, and that's what they'd love to do. In deficit professions, they can start work immediately after a short period of work. In the Netherlands we have a shortage of mechanics and a shortage of gardeners. Unfortunately, Prime Minister Rutte gets a 3. He doesn't keep his promises, he's far from the country, he teaches at a school in a popular neighborhood, but he doesn't raise enough in that folk school. The prime minister is someone trapped in his liberal capitalist worldview. With a smooth chat he sews the Netherlands into an ear. What does DENK expect from our Prime Minister? DENK expects him to be Prime Minister of all Dutchmen and to fight the hardening in politics instead of making harsh statements himself. Finally, I come to our favorite Minister Asscher. DENK really thinks this PvdA Minister is the most right-wing minister of this cabinet. The Minister of Integration appears to be mainly a minister of monitoring and distrust of minorities. The Minister for Employment is the Minister for Unemployment: more than 600,000 unemployed. How can the budget be in order if we have more than 600,000 unemployed? The Minister for Social Affairs, who should stand up for the bottom of society, appears to be the Minister for Research, who conducts endless investigations instead of taking action. And then he finally gets into action and then he gives extra paternity leave for a few days: a pacifier for the fathers! That is typical Asscher: nice left-wing talk on PvdA-congresses, hard right-wing rot policy in politics The Hague. Minister Asscher doesn't get a grade from us, but he gets a binding study advice. As far as we're concerned, this guy needs to get out of school right away. Maybe then he can be director of the research firm Motivation. I'm rounding up. As I said at the beginning, the cabinet is a kind of out-of-control smartphone. Battery's out and the phone has to power up all the time. As far as we're concerned, the phone may be exchanged for a new model.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u502	I will control myself and not ask to give all rulers a grade. In contemporary education, however, it sometimes happens that you can give yourself a grade. So I'm actually curious. Mr Kuzu, together with his colleague, left the Labour Party last November, left the group or something in between. He's been sitting in the Chamber and we see him once in a while in debates. What grade would he give himself? Maybe he can give a motivation for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u503	I would like to leave that to Mr Slob in particular. If he asks that question, he might as well. I'm kind of curious about that, too. Mr Slob also makes some assumptions that are not correct. However, he knows what it is like to function as a small group here in the House of Representatives. Mr Öztürk and I have a number of priorities and I have passed through the directors. We are trying to make a contribution to these priorities, of which not only we, but many people in the country believe that it has added value for politics. A lot of people don't feel represented by technocratic talk. Many people also want to hear the emotion they feel in society and the voice they don't know in the House of Representatives. And we are giving room for that, Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u504	Mr. Chairman. The government is not the solution to the problem, the government is the problem. That's what Ronald Reagan said during his inauguration as the 40th President of the United States. Now, almost 35 years later, those words are more valid than ever before. Meanwhile, the government spends more than 60% of our national income and all parties in this house, from the SP to the PVV and from the PvdA to the VVD, are fine with that. They all love the state. They all believe in the makeable society. From an economic point of view, it is only accent differences that distinguish them. This house has 148 socialists! The enormous tax burden in our country is a malignant mass that slowly but surely destroys our prosperity. The fact that the State takes people up to 52% of their income is a fine on work, a penalty on success. It's legalized theft. Progressive income tax is the most demotivating factor in our economy, but it doesn't matter to the 148 socialists in this house, because it's about prosperity creation. They are concerned with distribution of wealth, within and even outside our country: please lazy welfareist, please pathetic asylum seeker, please Greek government, please African dictator, here you have the money of hard-working Netherlands. The 148 socialists rob the middle class of their income and wealth. They are graciously attackingzzp'ers and family businesses, the backbone of our economy, the engine of our employment. The 148 socialists made the government the rover, Ali Baba and the 40 robbers of the VVD. The world-famous economist and Nobel laureate Milton Friedman said: scratch a European liberal and find a socialist. That certainly applies to the VVD. They don't listen to Friedman, Von Mieses and Hayek, because Keynes is their big hero. What the Netherlands needs more than ever are low taxes. I'm not talking about messing around in the margins of a percent here or a percent there. Our group shows what tax cuts really mean. We want a low flat tax, a uniform tax rate for everyone of 23%, and not 21% but 15% VAT. These much lower income tax and much lower VAT mean much more purchasing power, much more economic growth and much more employment. In the long term, this will mean even hundreds of thousands of additional jobs. In short, it leads to much more prosperity. It's not an air bike. A low flat tax and a low VAT are really possible, even without the public debt rising. There's a nice CPB stamp on our tax plans. How do we pay for it? We are throwing the fraud-sensitive and needless money-pumping surcharge system on the dump of socialism. If we want to prepare our country for the challenges of this economy, continue to enjoy economic prosperity and safeguard our prosperity for future generations, the Netherlands must reinvent itself. It requires a drastic change in our way of thinking: not in limitations but in opportunities, not in preservation but in growth, not clinging to the last century, but taking advantage of the opportunities of this century. We opt for more freedom and more prosperity. We choose the individual rather than collectivism. We choose the free market and not the state. We opt for classical liberalism and not socialism. That is what we are consistently doing, even when it comes to higher education, care and supplementary pensions. We stand for the privatisation of higher education, while maintaining access for all through a grant or loan system. Real top universities can now only be found in the United States or the United Kingdom. Fortunately, the ideas of Ronald Reagan and Margaret Thatcher never completely disappeared there. But we're stuck with mediocre universities, mediocre teachers, mediocre students, and that's costing us prosperity. We want the best care for everyone. That requires real market forces. Now we are talking about corporateism, where a handful of insurers is the service. That's not a free market. Not the insurance company, but the patient should be at the heart of it. We are in favour of individualisation, more freedom of choice and therefore lower care premiums. Only real free market leads to affordable and better quality care. We are in favour of a liberal pension system. Away with the compulsory build-up of the supplementary pension with a fund that you can't even choose. That's patronizing and not of this time anymore. Our current pension system is a relic from the last century. Let people decide for themselves how they want to shape their supplementary pension. The government needs to be much and much smaller and thus back to its core tasks. The core task of the government is to ensure our security as much as possible, both internally and externally. But even here, the government is completely failing. The police don't solve enough crimes. When a criminal is convicted, the penalties are often far too low. The high point is that thousands of convicted criminals are out there. We say 1 billion more for police, justice and our security services. DOD's on her last legs. The Netherlands must again comply with the NATO standard. We must devote at least 2% of our national income to our armed forces. That is why we say 5 billion more. Especially in times of jihadism and the resurrection of the evil empire is a strong army of existential importance. The world's unrest calls for powerful answers. This is not limited to investing much more in Defence, but it also means a strict immigration and asylum policy. Two thirds of the Dutch want to introduce border controls again. Two-thirds want to get out of Schengen. Today we heard from Nieuwsuur that, according to the VNG's Asylum Commission, 700 asylum seekers are now coming in every day. So that's not the 3,000 a week that's been mentioned today, that's almost 5,000 a week. That's way beyond our absorption capacity. This migration of people must stop. The Netherlands must re-establish permanent border controls. We must close the borders. I deliberately use the word 'asylum seeker', because it is not or hardly real refugees. Many asylum seekers in Northern Europe come from the Balkans. What war are they fleeing from? Syrians staying in Turkey are safe. They come not to the Netherlands or Germany for their safety but for a home and a benefit, and then to let the family come over. Part of it comes even before our destruction. Islamic State already claims to have smuggled 4,000 jihadists into Europe. If this cabinet continues to refuse to introduce permanent border controls, if this cabinet refuses to close the borders, Rutte II is a danger to the Netherlands. We call for care only in the region. That is what we pay EUR 200 million a year for. Reception in the region means no drowning in the Mediterranean. No matter how bad it is, I also said it last week. It's like Bart De Wever said: that dead toddler isn't our fault. Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Qatar are doing virtually nothing, rich Islamic states. There is hardly any solidarity in the Islamic world. The Netherlands does not need tough city leaders but a tough secretary of state. Mr Dijkhoff once said that asylum seekers' centres lead to nuisance and crime. Now he's the pull doll of the Labour Party. It's exemplary for the VVD. The VVD has no backbone, the VVD has a Ruttegrate. Ronald Reagan once said that a country that cannot defend its borders is not actually a country anymore. He was absolutely right about this too. We need to be boss over our own boundaries again. We must be sovereign again. That is why the Netherlands must denounce the Schengen Convention and the EU must return to its core: only economic cooperation. Not Brussels, but we ourselves must decide who we may or may not admit to our country. I'm rounding up. The Netherlands wants more freedom, more prosperity and more security. With this cabinet, we are farther away than ever. We opt for individual economic and political freedom. Only that will lead to more prosperity and more security. We choose the agenda of hope and optimism. We choose a new Golden Age. We serve ready wine. Get rid of the 148 Socialists! It's time for change, as far as we're concerned, time for elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u505	Mr. Chairman. "Highly honored audience," that's how the circus director starts his performance. The budget circus started yesterday, the calendar sheet just started. In the meantime, it's almost time for the big break. We have all been waiting for this for a long time, but just a moment for a free time of the day. That is what we can start this day with. We have seen a circus with the VVD and the PvdA as leading players. They are the drunken wild animals, only tamed by miserable polls. Should they also be banned? They're being tortured by four coats of arms, supposedly the big opposition parties. Who else knows the footage of Pipo de Clown? Then you have to admit that the comparison with Pipo de Clown is striking? They take advantage of each other with oversized shoes all the time. Can we still take this seriously? Box-K grinns for a reason, at least at other times. In poor circuses, the main players play different roles. Same in this national circus. VVD and PvdA are also good magicians. It concerns, for example, the disappearance of state tasks which then end up in municipalities. Hokus pokus! The municipal fund is being replenished but with much less than these tasks cost in the past. Then there is a strange scaling-up discount of 975 million without scaling up the municipalities. Rara, how is that possible? Thanks to this magic trick, the government has an even better budget and it seems that the government deficit can be reduced. Unfortunately, especially the people with their own home of this magic trick are the victims because they are faced with higher municipal taxes. For example, the property tax increases in many municipalities to close the gaps created by this government. Has the government taken into account more Article 12 municipalities? I ask the government to make an overview of the overall tax burden for the citizens of all governments together and to include it in the purchasing power calculations. When would I be able to look at that overview? Then it's time for the fortune tellers. And that's what the magnified magicians come up with. I see the crisis is over, let's go hand it out! 50 billion have cost the cuts in recent years and we now see about 10% of them coming back into reduction. With what vision? To make it easier for 600,000 unemployed to get a job? I am not even talking about the thousands of hidden unemployed who are now called 'nugger', non-contributorys. Will the 50-plusser get a job easier, too? The figures do not show this. Can the government say why it has not opted for a real structural approach? We only see short-term tellers with a foggy glass ball. It's not just a pitiful circus, it's also a pitiful circus. The old acts, belonging to old political parties, continue to be performed. Even the briefcase with the attributes is from 1946. The conservative policy fits perfectly with this old briefcase. However, you get a financially sound company through innovations. But this circus doesn't know anything. What, in my opinion, should be the liberal innovation agenda? Innovate the cracking and squeaking tax system with, for example, a system without unfair inheritance tax. Get a Department of Security and Justice to get things in order. Get to work on a real social system, with no fake security, so with a basic income. Design a good structural vision on the flexibilisation of labour in our information society. Develop a forward-looking approach to asylum policy, for the 160,000 people fleeing war and violence and for support in our society. Towards an innovative climate policy instead of a donquixote policy. And not only quickly renovate our old buildings around the Binnenhof, but also our ruined political system. Free-minded politics with a free-minded, binding perspective! I haven't read back any of this as a member of the Free Party. Of course, the audience can now be entertained by this circus with 5 billion relief. Or is this kind of entertainment not actually allowed and is it being balanced between all sorts of sad things? The Klein Group is now standing in the piste, as a final act or just as a new beginning to make our country more liberal. A real independent entrepreneur continues, keeps course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-7.u506	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. We shall continue this debate tomorrow.
