ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome all those present, in particular the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Before we begin, I give the floor to Mr Pechtold, who has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u2	Yesterday I called for an appreciation of Europe's ten-point plan. Two ministers from the Netherlands have also been there. I have here in preparation for this debate a letter from the Secretary of State on IS fighters stating that the ten-point plan is widely supported by the Member States for further discussion. We can agree on this generality. I also have an annotated agenda which contains eight lines, but it does not deal specifically with those ten points. Yesterday, the Chamber asked for more information on these ten points, but also on the suggestions to include and distribute 5,000 refugees from Italy across the Netherlands and to create a whole new distribution system. We want to hear what the cabinet is doing in this regard. Otherwise, as a Chamber, we are lagging behind, so before the debate begins, I ask the Cabinet to give an appreciation of the ten individual points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u3	That's what was asked yesterday. Is it possible for the cabinet to give these answers in the form of a statement before we start the debate? So there can be no interruption now, but then we will get the requested information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. The first concerns strengthening the Triton mission, particularly in Frontex. We are sympathetic to that. It must, of course, first be clear what the financial consequences are. The specific question here is what resources are available. This is about extending the current mission. This is appreciated positively by the cabinet. This can therefore also be the case in the case of enlargement. For all points, but I will also make this specific point, we do believe that a contribution should be proportionate if requested. We appreciate that many things that the Netherlands already does, are now recognized as good to do by all 28 countries. It is logical to start by asking for extra from countries that are doing nothing or very little now, in order to correct the existing imbalance in the commitment between the Member States. That can be done if all 28 countries say that these are good plans. That goes for all the details. The destruction of the ships, the second point, requires an adequate international mandate. That's a condition for the cabinet. That has yet to emerge from the plans. In general, we believe that this option can be considered if it fits into international law. Well, that's a condition, so we need to see that first. The third point concerns better cooperation between existing organisations in order to counter the major causes of these human tragedies, the smugglers, by disrupting their modus operandi and improving visibility. That seems to us to be a sensible move. The fourth point concerns the deployment of teams to Italy and Greece to help improve the processing of asylum seekers and asylum applications. That, too, seems to us to be a good thing. Within EASO there has just been a pilot to exchange experts. It's good to do that and to expand it. The fifth point concerns the assurance that procedural requirements are well followed in all Member States, including fingerprinting. The Netherlands agrees with this and even considers this to be a very important point. This is also a prerequisite for participating in any subsequent issues aimed at alleviating the burden of those Member States that are most affected. The sixth point is vaguely formulated. Appreciation is positive. It says that, in emergencies, possibilities are being considered for a relocation mechanism between countries. Of course, this sounds rather vague. Our commitment here is that we need to look more broadly than just incidents. You must have a mechanism that also takes account of the existing imbalance in the inclusion of countries. You should certainly be the first to look at the countries at the bottom when it comes to their duty to take in refugees. If you do something like that, the necessity must also be well defined. It is not about a country that has a few months heavier. It really shouldn't be possible anymore. We've seen that once before, occasionally, in Malta. It is important, however, that all Member States participate and commit to it. In this sense, it is also important what the Commission comes up with. It must come up with options that we can consider. The seventh point is the voluntary contribution to a pilot with resettlement for 5,000 people. The Netherlands has often called for Member States to assume their responsibilities in this regard. The Netherlands is at a number of 500 per year. If all the Member States went to that minimum level, you'd be above 5,000. So here too, we have often stressed the fact that we believe that all European Member States should participate in the programme. That is also the first step you should take in such a programme. The eighth point is a new return programme for the rapid return of irregular migrants. More European cooperation in the field of return is positive. In 2014, the Netherlands made a proposal to encourage Europewide through a pilot countries of origin to better participate in the withdrawal of asylum seekers who have been processed. Frontex will be given a role in this proposal. That makes it more operational. That also means that there are some questions as to how much this role is there and how you do it, because the responsibility now lies with the Member States themselves to initiate and continue their return. The ninth point is to work with the countries around Libya and, for example, with Niger, to do more to ensure that the situation becomes more stable. In general, we say, of course, agreement. It is also important to look at how this divides, because this point is not yet very concrete. The final point is to deploy the Immigration Liaison Officers (ILOs) in key third countries. This is also the case with the need for financial resources and for us to make use of them. In addition, the question is whether other Member States are already doing enough and have included it in their programmes. Again, the question is whether you start there first. But in principle this is also an acceptable point for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u5	I will endeavour to get the stenogram of this part of the sitting to the Chamber as soon as possible. That is then uncorrected, but at least you will have it all on paper and you can read it back, because it was quite a lot of information. Let us now begin the debate. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Pechtold of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. A disaster off the coast of Europe. While here in The Hague we have been fighting for every crumb and drop of bed, bath and bread for a week and a half, European reality is catching up with us. Every day people drown in our waters. Every day there are pictures of fathers, mothers and children in boats. Some of them flee wars. Some are political refugees. And some are making the prosperity flight; a flight to the richer Europe. Some of these people are entitled to asylum. Some of them don't have that, and they have to go back, because we can't be the escape hill for everyone in dire circumstances. But whoever it is, no one has to drown. There is one thing that matters first, namely saving lives. Too long we pretended "Lampedusa" was an Italian problem. They were allowed to save, and they did. Mare Nostrum did more than 400 operations in 2014, saved 150,000 lives and brought 330 human traffickers to justice. Italy paid 9 million a month for that. Now, with the European operation, there is less money, and there are fewer boats and rescues. And so 1,800 people drowned: 30 times as many as in the same period last year, while the number of flight attempts did not fall. That's not a sucking effect, is it? Ministers now have a ten-point plan. I ask the cabinet: are we going back at least to last year's Italian commitment? Are we going to triple the mission with 28 countries, which cost €0.20 per European per year? Is the Prime Minister going to say that at least the Netherlands wants that, and that he is willing to think about options for people and equipment? In that respect, I was pleased with words such as 'willing' and 'fair' just now. But I think that this debate needs to be further developed. Because yes, the Italians also drove with the crane open, but at least there was a mop. And then after the rescues. All applying for asylum on Lampedusa? Not about D66. We want a single European asylum policy with a better distribution of refugees. Because what do we see now? 600,000 asylum applications, including 200,000 in Germany and 445 in Portugal. My party says: look at the population, population density and gross national product and make a better distribution on that basis. Because when the Italians open the borders, Lampedusa is not Italy but then Lampedusa Rotterdam is Central. A motion on a better distribution of my colleague Schouw and colleague Voordewind has already been adopted. We want the cabinet that really fills in and is going to work on such a division in Brussels and on a faster and better asylum application. And, as the rumors say, to a more efficient expansion policy, because that is, I hope, also the outcome of bed, bath and bread. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Blijkbaar, zo begrijp ik, kan het uitzetten na Verdonk, na Leers en na Teeven toch nog beter.]] Fine, I'd say, but do it. Then the most difficult question: what can we do about the root causes? We can't solve all the wars and we're dealing with reality. And so we have to be tough, but we also have to do something in the region itself. Don't leave Africa to the Chinese. It is also in our interest that these countries should normally participate on the world stage. For years, we've been talking about care in the region. Mr Azmani worked on a seven-page paper for a year; the borders closed, he said, but he also said, especially in the region. But are we gonna do that? Not just on paper, no, really good shelter that's safe, with education for kids, food and a roof over your head. And this also requires commitment and budget from the European Union and the Netherlands. But the VVD didn't even come up with a motion in that debate. So I would like to see concrete proposals today. I'm rounding up. This summit is about one question. Are we a Europe that allows people to drown off its coast, or are we a Europe that says 'not on our watch', a Europe that says: yes, countries have their own responsibility, yes, shelter in the region, yes, to deal with human traffickers and yes, strict asylum policy but we do not let people drown, we do not let a country take the fall for a European problem? And to that I would like to receive many answers from the cabinet today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. In the event of major disasters such as those on the Mediterranean Sea where hundreds of people, including many children, drowned each time, a human being feels small. It does not fit in my eyes at the moment to use big words. The tragedy is too intense to blame. But considering those who died during their journey motivated by hope, willpower, dreams, the desire for security and an opportunity to make something of life, I too must think of the families of these people and of what we would tell them if they were present with us now. Their sons and daughters, mothers, sisters and fathers have fallen away. What can we say to comfort them, to explain their loss and grief? To this end, we must first give answers to the many questions that exist, including with the SP. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to answer these questions. Mrs Mogherini said, 'I quote her: 'It needed time and, unfortunately, a lot of killing, but now there is finally an agreement'. Of course, she mentioned the terrible accidents in which hundreds of boat refugees drowned. I quote her again: 'It seems that only tragedies can create the right political climate in Europe'. Does the cabinet share its vision and, if so, why did it turn out that way? How does the cabinet view the decision to support the end of Mare Nostrum, as Mr Pechtold has just mentioned? How does it see the development that reducing the rescue capacity in the Mediterranean has not led to fewer boat refugees? First of all, we must recognise that there is a shared European responsibility for what is happening there, said the EU High Representative Federica Mogherini, who will also lead the meeting next Thursday. She said it's our sea. How does the Cabinet see this? Does it share this vision and is Europe, is the EU responsible? Will Triton and Poseidon, with the proposal by Commissioner Avramopoulos, double the old level, that of Operation Mare Nostrum? Will this cabinet welcome the option of establishing European asylum seekers' centres, as stated in a note from my SP colleague in the European Parliament, Dennis de Jong? The reaction of the Secretary of State to the relocation of cases was too vague in my turn. He talked about "watching more than an incident" and "taking account of the current imbalance." The Secretary of State then mentions how typical the countries that are currently receiving too few people are. However, he does not mention those countries which are now inundated, such as Italy or Greece. There's a imbalance there, isn't there? Then why didn't he mention it? The Secretary of State says that when we talk about resettlement, we also expect other countries to resettle at least 500 people. Minimal? That's our maximum! The maximum number of people we resettle annually is 500. Does the words of the Secretary of State mean that we are going to use the 500 as the lower limit, as the minimum? Do we therefore respond to the UNHCR's request that it be increased immediately to 750? It is a small addition, a small extension, but we believe that this is urgently needed in these harsh times. What exactly does the cabinet mean by the phrase of the Foreign and Security and Justice Ministers in which they advocated "a truly integrated approach, addressing the internal and external dimensions of European migration policy and their interrelationship in all relevant aspects"? Again: this is a little too vague to my liking. How does the cabinet intend to ensure "Search and Rescue" activities in a coordinated EU context without creating new pull factors, as Minister Koenders calls them, under which I understand the infamous suction effect? What transit countries does the government have in mind besides Niger? How does the Netherlands intend to cooperate with them? In addition to the ten-point plan of the European Union, there is also the UNHCR's twelve-point plan. I take it Secretary of State for Security and Justice has already been able to look into that. I'd like to see his reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. It may be a characteristic of politics that you disagree most of the time. That is why there is a lot of talk and debate. However, there are times when the debate should be silenced and action taken. That happens sometimes, when the need is very high. This was not the case when the banks fell at the height of the economic crisis. No, the cabinet decided in one night to put billions into saving a bank. Everyone in the Chamber actually supported that. Of course, the VVD was not suddenly in favour of all banks having to come into state hands, but everyone saw that action had to be taken, because this was a major danger to the financial system. I do not understand why, when it comes to the problems of the Mediterranean, where so many people are dying, no action is actually being taken. There is talk of risks and an astounding effect. We should take action now, as we did in saving the banks. I would almost say send anything that can drift towards the Mediterranean to ensure that people are not killed in this terrible way. Is that a structural solution to these major problems? No. We have to make sure that we can save all the people who are drowning and dying right now. Last week, EU leaders met to discuss a ten-point plan. The media said that there was finally a sense of urgency. Urgency? It was a plan from 2013 that had been pushed up a little bit. In Mare Nostrum, the first operation to rescue refugees, just over 100 million euros were spent. That amount has been reduced to EUR 30 million. Have there been fewer refugees? No. Could more refugees be saved? No. What have European leaders agreed on? They're going to raise the amount of 30 million a little bit. It doesn't go back to the old level; it only goes up a tiny bit. I would say: we should not go back to the level of Mare Nostrum; no, we should double that amount. We need to make sure that we can save the people who are now crossing the border. That, of course, is not enough. As far as I am concerned, we also need to work on a structural solution. Anyone who says that this solution will be there next week, or next year or the year after that, I do not think is telling the truth. The solution is not easy. Of course, we have to deal with the traders, we have to make sure that we work better together internationally, so that their business case, to call it very cold and cold, becomes less interesting. We also need to provide legal and better ways for refugees and people in Africa, in conflict zones, to get here. We should have a much more generous asylum policy. All those people, those vulnerable people, we should be giving them the opportunity to sign up. We should bring them here ourselves, just to put it very plastically. But there's something else we have to do. The predictions show that 600 million people in the world are at risk from climate change. We can already see that 26 million people are on the run because of climate change, because of drought. If we do not manage to solve such major issues that cannot be resolved overnight, then it will never stop, then people who cross over will continue to venture, no matter how dangerous they are, because the alternative of staying in the place where they live is not an option. Which brings me to the following. I'm really annoyed by the whole debate on sucking effect. It's like people are getting into a rickety boat for fun to venture the crossing! The alternative of staying is much worse. I therefore hope that we will do everything in our power to ensure that all those people who are now crossing the border do not drown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. No quiet journey, no march, no "je suis réfugié," no names. Well, numbers, sometimes faces on the news. Another 1,800 anonymous dead in the cemetery called the Mediterranean. Men, women, children, we don't know them. They're anonymous dramas. Someone's kid doesn't come home. Someone's father didn't make it. Someone's wife died. The images of the lifeless bodies taken from the water or from the overcrowded boats have now crossed the whole world. We are talking about them today, about the 500 000 to 1 million refugees who are still ready to make that potentially dangerous crossing. The key question at the extra EU summit is: who feels responsible now? Not only now but also if the cameras might go back to another disaster. The Christian Union Group is also relieved to see the EU finally moving. The transition from Mare Nostrum, in which man was still at the centre, to Operation Triton, which was used to monitor European interests, has developed catastrophically. The moral compass of Europe has been disrupted. And what is the commitment of the Netherlands now? Among other things, the Netherlands has called for the setting-up of Search-and-Rescue activities. In the government's view, this should not lead to an exhausting effect. Here too, the Achilles heel of the cabinet is reflected. How does the Prime Minister see this in practice? The EU's 10-point plan presented in the media contains elements that the Christian Union can support. It will, however, come to the concrete effect. The Secretary of State has just made a number of moves to this end, which I will respond to. The Commissioner responsible announced that Frontex will double the number of operations. That sounds decisive, but we have to wait and see if the mandate of that mission will change as well. Are we actually going to save people again and is that what was in the mandate, as was the case with Mare Nostrum? Are we going to double that humanitarian capacity in the Mediterranean? The letter also talks about political solutions. What additional measures will the EU take with regard to Libya? What is the Dutch commitment? What does the Prime Minister think of Rob de Wijk's proposal to establish a humanitarian and military mission with safe ports in Libya? Can the Prime Minister respond to this? It could perhaps be combined with a tough approach by the smugglers, similar to that so successful anti-piracy mission. The reception in the region has long been no longer a real alternative to many refugees. In Lebanon, over the past winter, people have died of cold. Serious work on receiving care in the region means that we need a decent reception, that rapes of women are prevented, that people are given access to education and care in the host countries. Is the Dutch government going to bet on that too? If care is provided in the region, is the Netherlands prepared to make additional money available for it together with other countries? The cabinet did so together with the constructive three last year. Then 570 million euros were spent on it. However, that is not enough. I also have a question about the invitation policy. Of the 1 million people driven, 500 are invited to settle here. A motion has recently been adopted in this Chamber to extend that number to 750. Even that motion wasn't carried out. What is the Dutch Government going to do under these circumstances to invite at least 250 extra people? Finally, I have a question about humanitarian visas. Earlier, it was possible to grant it. That stopped now. It is precisely in this situation that the granting of more humanitarian visas can result in goods being left out of the hands of smugglers. I know people in the Netherlands who would love to have their family from Syria, if only for a few months. Do we have any way of preventing these people from being sent to the sea? I'd like to await the cabinet's response to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u10	Madam President. A million people are ready to cross the sea from Libya and take the road to Europe with little boats. They are the victims of unscrupulous human smugglers. Thousands of them drown: men, women and children. The poignant images fill everyone with horror. But as long as hundreds of thousands succeed in reaching Europe, they will continue to take the transition. They calculate their chances and take the risk. The European Union is only making the problem worse. At the first point of the 10-point plan they say they want to solve the problem by having more ships, or should I say "taxi boats" patrolling close to the Libyan coast, not to send the people back but to pick them up and bring them to Europe. The problem is only gonna get bigger. Our border control is in reality a shuttle service that will bring more and more migrants to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u11	I can't believe it, but does Mr Wilders here say they're better off drowning? Shouldn't we save the people who sit on those crummy boats on the Mediterranean? Is that the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u12	If you'll excuse me, I'll come to my solution in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u13	I am asking a question, and I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u14	Sure. I'll be right there. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u15	I'm looking at you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just asking a question, and I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u16	You can stand here for an hour, but I'll give you my answer in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u17	We often have these kinds of discussions, even when it comes to the cabinet. Once again, I give you the opportunity to ask this question when Mr Wilders comes to his solution. If he doesn't come up, you can ask the question again. Let's do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u18	I will continue my speech. I told you, Europe is only making it worse. That stupidity has to stop. Luckily, it's proven possible. Look at Australia. That's a civilized country, a western country. That country does border surveillance. Australia sends the refugees back to the country of departure in safe boats. This applies to all refugees, without exception. It's called "push back." Boats with immigrants are stopped and pushed back to the country they came from. If these migrant boats are unsafe, they will be replaced and Australia will offer them a safe boat. 'Cause no one, but no one, wants these people to drown, of course. But back they go, all of them. The result is that those lucky seekers no longer drown and the smugglers no longer make money. The result is that the flow of immigrants is drying up. It is effective: the smugglers are no longer successful, the people are not drowning, and Australia is going to be, and I hope that Europe too will not have migrants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u19	In the hope that Mr Wilders will now be pleased to give an answer: Mr Wilders is hopefully aware that many refugees are leaving Libya. You can read that extensively in the newspapers. I hope that the PVV Group also realizes what terrible stories people bring about, about the degrading circumstances in which they have had to live in Libya for a number of weeks, sometimes even longer, sometimes months. Surely we cannot say in Europe: are you going back to Libya, to a country that is nothing more than a wasteland, where people are being cut off on the beach? Is that what the PVV Group is proposing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u20	All of you back, that's my answer. All back, without distinction...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u21	Even if it's unsafe there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u22	You're yelling outside the microphone now. Do you want to hear the answer, or do you continue to do so? They all have to go back, without exception. Find a place in Libya on the coast or elsewhere in North Africa where it's safe. I say to the representative of the SP: we cannot do that. We cannot handle so many refugees and so many migrants in Europe. If the SP spokesperson is concerned about people drowning, I tell her, through you, Madam President, that this way people will continue to drown, because they all feel that they have a chance of getting into Europe when they get into such a crappy boat. If we give the signal that we send them back safely in a safe boat, so that they do not drown anymore, they will no longer be at risk and there will be no more migrants. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u23	The facts speak for themselves. What Mr Wilders is saying here is not true. But it is true: we cannot handle all the refugees in the world. If you say here as a political party that it is okay to send people back to a murdering mass of people in Libya, if you choose to do so as a political party and dare to say it out loud here in the Chamber, you are not worth a clue; then you are just a danger to humanity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u24	The lady from the SP isn't starting to cry yet, but she can say whatever she wants. We live in a free country. Look, now she's smiling again, so in the end, everything's gonna be okay. I'll tell the lady from the SP, whose name I forgot...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mrs. Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u26	...that the only solution is of course to send people back safely. If we do what the SP wants, we'll get everyone here. Every asylum seeker costs €26,000 in the Netherlands, while an AOW citizen gets €13,500 per year and cuts in healthcare costs. We don't want that. Instead of spending the money on the thousands of asylum seekers, spend it on the elderly in the Netherlands. It's a disgrace. You should be ashamed that the SP doesn't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u27	Australia makes agreements with other countries. You could say that the Australians are outsourcing and outsourcing the reception of asylum seekers. I am very curious to see how Mr Wilders sees this and what arrangements he wants to make, for example with a country like Libya. The question I have just asked, perhaps I will now get an answer to it. If you have a choice between drowning or saving people, what is Mr Wilders' choice? I get the impression that it is: let them drown. If we can't send them back, let them drown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u28	It's a little hard to see from a distance, but the picture I'm showing now shows the boats that the Australian government gives to refugees who come on a rickety boat, which you can't just push back because people would drown. They are boats equipped with water, supplies, life jackets, air conditioning and a diesel engine. These are the boats that the Australian government gives to the people to go back to the area where they came from. Because they do, I'll come back to it later in my text. Australia has gotten zero more boats over the past 18 months. Nobody's thinking about going to Australia anymore, because people know we're not getting in. There's balls. The government says "we don't do it; we don't accept you, and we spend the money on the elderly in Australia." That's what this cabinet should do. So people don't drown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr Wilders goes to the situation in Australia every time, but I would like to go back to the Mediterranean. Mr Wilders is talking about sending them back. I'll say, okay, but then you have to make agreements with countries. That's what Australia does. I don't see that happening for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u30	Your question. I'm trying to give you the space to ask your question right now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thank you for indicating what you're trying to do, Mr. Chairman. Then you have to make arrangements with Libya. I don't see that happening yet. The question before us is very simple. Then the choice you make is to drown people in the Mediterranean. As far as I am concerned, that is unacceptable. I expected a lot from Mr Wilders, but not that he would allow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u32	That remark is even dumber than stupid, because I have already given the answer. They put them in clean boats, often better than they had, and send them back. If the Navy of all the European countries does not even need to patrol in a European context, but it is allowed to patrol off the coast of Libya and the people arrive with their boats, the Navy will send them back to Libya. They don't even get into national waters. You don't have to make an appointment with anyone. Back to where you came from, that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u33	Maybe I can continue on Australia's example. Mr Wilders has undoubtedly read what else that country is doing. Mr Klaver is right: they make agreements with third countries, such as Indonesia, to take care of these people. In fact, Australia is also paying money for these third countries. The cabinet, Mr Wilders, which you were tolerating, has cut 1 billion in development cooperation and emergency aid. Are you prepared to make agreements with third countries and to make generous money available for them? And don't immediately refer to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u34	No, we're not willing to do that, and we don't have to. Look at the map. I don't know how great your topographical knowledge is, but people come from far and wide to Australia. They come from Borneo and I know what kind of countries in the region and come very late off that coast. That is not the case here. What is already happening and what Europe wants to do, only as a taxi service rather than as a push back service, is patrolling off the coast of North Africa. If those boats come, you can push them back to those lands. Push back, as Australia does, yet a civilized country, you will agree with me. So you don't need any meeting with any country. Send it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u35	That sounds very nice for the stage and they have also thought about it in Italy. But that's where they're real. Sending people back to a country at war, think of Libya and Syria, and Lebanon, where they already receive one in five people, is not real. That is why they are also making plans in Australia to do so with third countries. Is Mr Wilders prepared, is the PVV prepared to look with third countries to see whether safe ports can be created there and to put money on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u36	That is just the same question and I answer the same question: that is totally unnecessary and totally uncompareable to the surroundings of Australia. You can just send them back off the coast of Africa to the countries they come from. You don't have to make appointments with anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u37	I note that Mr Wilders used the words 'asylum seekers' and 'happiness seekers' in his contribution so far, and that he also considers the situation in Australia and in North Africa to be the same. However, it seems to me quite a difference whether you are from Borneo or from the hell of Syria. Yes, there are also people from North Africa who are just looking for a better life. But a lot of people have to fear for their lives. Your wife was raped in the refugee camp, your kids don't have any future, you don't have a roof over your head, you're told the jump is about to be made, but it turns out it's one hell of a mess. How can Mr Wilders throw asylum seekers, lucky seekers, everything together? How on earth can he maintain that the situation in Australia is comparable to what is happening in the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u38	It's effective, and I want effective policies. If we were to follow Mr. Pechtold, we would have to admit everyone. That's a million people. A million people come to Europe in one year. Mr Pechtold says: well, there are also people who are really having a hard time, let's let them all come. I assure you, if you arrive in Italy now, they'll just let you through. They register you and people go out of the shelter camps and to Denmark, Germany and the Netherlands. Why? Because those Italians don't want to and they can't. In other words, it doesn't work like it does now. Millions of people are headed our way. We can't afford that, and our people don't want that either. So I say stop them all and send them back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u39	In Mr Wilders' simplistic worldview, only 1 million are coming this way. The reality is that countries in the region are already inundated. The population of a country like Lebanon now consists of 25% refugees. That would mean that we would have 4 million here in the Netherlands. It is not the case that a country like the Netherlands can close the dikes, the borders and everything here and that the rest of the problem will no longer come towards us, apart from everything else. I asked Mr Wilders to make a comparison and to see the difference between what is happening in Australia and what is happening in North Africa. However, Mr Wilders says: we have firefighters, but if you dare to get out of that house, we will push you back into the fireplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u40	We can't handle it. All the sad stories of the SP and D66 aside, we can't handle it, 1 million people. It's priceless. Don't do it, send it back; that's the only solution, don't go along with some of my colleagues' bullshit stories here. As I said, that policy does not lead to dramas off the coast of Australia. There will be no more migrants overseas and no one will drown. That's how it goes in Australia. The smugglers don't deserve anything, because nobody goes to Australia anymore. As the Prime Minister of Australia says, stopping the boats is the only way to stop the deaths and drowning of people. It will now be clear to everyone that I propose that we follow this Australian example. This is in our interests, but also in the interests of those immigrants who are otherwise fooled by smugglers, die and drown. We don't want that. The PVV doesn't want that. No one should want to. As I said, let all those countries in Europe, whether or not in a European context, patrol off the coast of North Africa and send all immigrants back safely but firmly. Only then, only then, will the problem disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u41	I'll try again. Does Mr Wilders consider the comparison between those who are trying to reach Australia, for whatever reason, and those who are trying to come to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u42	We can't handle the problem. You can ask it a hundred times; you get the same answer a hundred times. We can't handle the problem. You say how pathetic it is and you ask if you can compare it, but we can't handle it. There's a million people coming this way. We cannot do this in numbers or in financial terms. Sending back, that's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u43	So if they drown in front of the camera, we say we can't handle it. If they're gonna be raped or decapitated in front of the camera, they're just gonna get killed, Mr Wilders! We are saying no here in the free and rich West, regardless of what else is happening. We have the PVV here, which does not want to give a penny for development cooperation to prevent this, who does not want to participate in international missions to get unstable countries back to a bit of peace, and who takes away the consequences by saying, "We can't handle it'. That's folklore, a story that doesn't add up. A simple question to address the difference between Australia and North Africa is not answered. Why not? Because he can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr Pechtold's remarks strengthen me in the idea that we should send them all back, all of them, without any difference between any groups. I hope these people run the other way. Don't let them run to Europe. Let them run south. For example, let them flee to the Gulf States; let them go that way. You know all these super-rich Gulf states. You name it: the United Arab Emirates, Oman; you know them. These countries are much richer than any other country. I believe that these Gulf States are now taking up 120 asylum seekers. Let them flee that way instead of to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u45	Mr Pechtold, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u46	Now he's gonna fall in the basket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u47	You're falling in the basket. You've been falling through the basket the whole time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u48	Now I was talking. Wilders has been talking all day about how bad it is in those Gulf States, those Arab states, but he also sends the Christians who appear in those boats that way. You're sending them straight to death. I say it in your words and according to your worldview. I'm gonna try one more time. Is there any comparison between the people who are in those boats in Australia and the people who are in those boats in North Africa? Is that comparison to be made, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u49	I have already given the answer a hundred times, but Mr Pechtold will not listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr Wilders is almost a master in not giving answers. That's why you have to keep repeating the question. I discovered something of empathy with Mr. Wilders. It scared me a little, but I figured it out. He said that we should send the refugees back and that this was in their own interests and in the interests of their security. How does Mr Wilders assess the security situation in Libya, Syria, Tunisia? How does Mr Wilders assess the security situation there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u51	On the coast of North Africa, from Egypt, via Libya, Tunisia, Algeria to Morocco and Western Sahara, in all those countries, from east to west, would there be no safe zone? Don't tell me that. Those safe areas are there. Find one of those countries. I can draw you the map and I can show you the places they can go. But don't let them come to Europe. We cannot do that, and we should not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr Wilders says that they are almost all from Libya at the moment. Let him point out a place on the map of Libya where they should go. Let him point out a spot on that map. If they're from Libya and we have to send them back to that country, where should we take them? The fact is, these people don't run away for fun or for fun. No, these people are fleeing the horrors of those lands. They are persecuted there, they are threatened with death, they flee war and violence. They don't do that for fun. There's no place they can stay there. Where in Libya, according to Mr Wilders, is a place where we could house them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u53	There are places like this all over North Africa. I was talking about Egypt and parts in the west of Libya, for the capital. The situation there is not comparable to the situation off the coast of Benghazi in the east. There are territories in countries, from Egypt via Tunisia to Morocco. They are not my countries, but it is better that they go there than they go to us, to Europe. I pointed out another alternative; let them run the other way. Let them flee to the Gulf States, let them flee south and to the other part of Africa. You just said during your speaking time: pick them all up and use the Dutch Navy. Give them all a free ticket for the Netherlands. It is your right to say that because we live in a free country. But we cannot give them all a free ticket, Mr van GroenLinks. It can't be. We can't afford that, and people don't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u54	I'm gonna ask Mr. PVV one more time anyway. He's always so concrete and so clear, but now he's talking about areas, somewhere in North Africa on the coast of the Mediterranean. The question remains: where then? I think the conclusion, Mr van de PVV, is that there are no places where you can safely send these people. Then be honest about that. Be absolutely clear about that, Mr van de PVV. That would make the debate much clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u55	I've been honest with you. The fact that Mr van GroenLinks does not understand this is more his problem. Most of the coast of North Africa is safe. They can go to Egypt. Let them go to Egypt tomorrow. What's unsafe about Egypt? We don't even accept refugees from Egypt. It is the neighbouring country of Libya. They'll be there any minute. Let them go. Yeah, now you're full of teeth. Beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u56	I rarely stand with my mouth full of teeth, especially when Mr van de PVV tries to address me in this way. He comes back to the fact that there are all kinds of areas and all kinds of neighbouring countries. Yeah, yeah, I know my topography too. I'm just asking him, name a place. Just name a town, a place they could go. A town like that, there's no such place. The fact is that the people there flee the horrors because they are persecuted for who they are, for what they believe in, for freedom of speech. Surely that should affect Mr Wilders and appeal to him? That is why he should say: this is not the place where these people can stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u57	Again, I say, all go back. The coast of about all of North Africa is safe. Maybe the Mr van GroenLinks can take a look for himself. Then he'll see for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u58	Hi, Mr Wilders. Here's the lady from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u59	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u60	I see that Mr Wilders is back in his element. The gestures, the words, the powerful terms; they're back. I'll give it to him. For the fun of the debate, I'm going with him. Suppose all your solutions work. We send everyone who arrives back, people who flee are taken in the region. For the sake of the debate, I will go along with that. But then the question remains whether you acknowledge that we have a problem in Libya, that it is war there and that it is forcing people to flee. I think the answer will be yes. If that is the case, do you also acknowledge that this means that people are forced to flee? What measures are you prepared to take to prevent the need to flee? I would like to make one specific suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u61	I am not prepared to take one measure at all. Let them take care of it there in the region itself. I have already said it 100 times: let the people go to another country, let them go to Egypt, let them go to Morocco, let them go to the Gulf States, which are very rich, let them put their own house in order. We cannot take on the responsibility of the whole world. It is the responsibility of these countries to put their own house in order. It is difficult enough to survive here in this country with the Labour Party in the cabinet, let alone that we can solve the problems there in North Africa. We can't, and we shouldn't. We have to stand up here, and that's hard enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u62	I am in the Chamber long enough to know that Mr Wilders likes to give out a sneer if it gets difficult. I only conclude: many big words, we can talk about solutions and I would like to think along with that. But if I ask for one concrete measure to prevent people from being forced to flee, I get zero on Mr Wilders' reek, as always. I find that extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u63	Quite specifically: by sending the people back, no more people will drown. By not sending people back, by giving people the idea that they can reach Europe, people are going to cross it in crappy boats, which drowns them. If we do what Australia does and we send them back and if we need to, we'll even give them a safe boat, with air conditioning and food and drink, but we'll send them back and people know there's no point in coming, then they won't and they won't drown anymore. The most humane proposal is the PVV proposal. I told you, every asylum seeker costs us an average of €26,500 a year. A Dutchman with AOW gets barely half gross. That's embarrassing. What kind of parties are we debating here? People who seem to think that's more important than our own elders. I'm embarrassed. Our borders must be watertight. The Dutch are entitled to that. I ask the Prime Minister: make that firm, but humane Australian proposal, the pushback practice, to work for tomorrow's European summit, then we see that those people in Brussels are doing something good for our country too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr. Chairman. The image of that lifeless girl in that azure blue water. She was wearing a pink skirt. I think that was her most beautiful skirt, which she had chosen specifically for the boat trip, on her way to a new future. The smugglers who put her on that boat didn't shed a tear because she found her final destination in the sea. Because smuggling people has become a billion-dollar business. The boat that sank on Sunday had 900 refugees on board. They paid about $5,000 per person. The smugglers are making 4.5 million dollars out of this tragedy. This is therefore a matter of human lives, of civilisation and of justice. There is a major problem that Europe can only solve together. I therefore hope that tomorrow the leaders in Europe will not only speak disgrace, but also act. The ten points proposed by the Foreign Ministers are a step in the right direction. But we would also like these ten points to be implemented. My first question is addressed to the Prime Minister: can he give an idea of the playing field within Europe and of his expectations regarding the composition of other countries? EU foreign chief Mogherini said: it is our duty to save lives at sea. The focus of the current Frontex operation is one-sided on border surveillance. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the current Triton mission should be extended and also given a humanitarian objective. That is also part of the motion I tabled together with Mrs Voortman a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u65	To make the latter concrete: does the PvdA agree with me that, given that the Italian operation, paid by the Italians themselves, of 9 million a month compared to Triton's cost of a third was much more effective in many areas, the Dutch government's commitment should be tomorrow evening: at least back to the level of Mare Nostrum of the Italians? This means about 20 cents per European per year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u66	Before I commit to concrete amounts, the purpose of the Voortman motion is to re-focus on a humanitarian rescue operation. People really need to be saved. The boats must also be provided with care. So it has to be more than the current Triton operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u67	Now the proposal from the ministers meeting last Monday has been translated into amounts that Triton, which now costs 3 million a month, paid by the whole of the European Union, will cost twice as much, namely 6 million. A simple calculation thus shows that we are far from being at the level of what the Italians themselves did until 1 January. Apart from the amounts, we do know what the effect is on human trafficking, on drowning and on suction. Does Mrs Kuik agree with me that we should say that the commitment must be that we should at least reach the level of performance of the Italians until 1 January? That seems to me to be a simple yes or no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u68	What is in the ten-point plan is a good first step. In our motion, Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks and I are clear: the aim must be to go back to the design and operation of the old rescue operation, because that is what it was in fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u69	I'm not Mrs. Voortman, but I know her pretty well. I know there's no time to waste as far as she's concerned. We don't have the luxury to say: let's choose a quiet growth path to get back to the old level. It just needs to be arranged at the top. Does Mrs. Chicken agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u70	My next sentence was that I am actually counting on the support of the cabinet to commit itself to this, partly in the light of the motion we tabled together. I am expecting Secretary of State Dijkhoff to make an advance on this in his letter of 24 March last, which says that if agreement is reached and a contribution is requested from the Dutch Government, the Netherlands is prepared to do so. I'm asking for confirmation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u71	If I understand correctly, do you ask the cabinet to make a very concrete effort to ensure that the expenditure on this rescue mission and the mandate for this mission go back to Mare Nostrum's level at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u72	I don't want people drowning unnecessarily in the Mediterranean. It's gonna take a rescue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u73	It is no different than humane to save refugees who are at risk of drowning. To make that possible, we are side by side. I would like to know from Mrs Kuik whether she will also deal with climate refugees in her contribution. In the coming years, refugee flows will only increase as a result of climate change, water scarcity and water wars, which will increasingly come because of the way we produce and consume here in the Netherlands. Does Mrs Kuik call on the cabinet to start addressing the causes of these refugee flows?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u74	My honest answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u75	Is it not a missed opportunity to speak in this debate not only about saving people who have drifted, but also about tackling the causes, so that we can prevent all these millions of people from going to Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u76	You have now reworded your question. The answer is: yes, I am going to say something about that, because that is one of the things I am missing in the ten-point plan. One looks very much at how things can be solved acutely, and that makes sense in itself, but we also have to look at the source of misery. I would like to say something about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u77	That's what Mrs. Chicken will come back to. You will then have the floor again if you need it, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u78	I have a specific, slightly more specific question for Mrs Kuik of the Labour Party. The deployment of the Triton mission will be doubled. That is also the intention of the ten-point plan. Does Mrs Kuik think that this should also apply to the Search and Rescue, as we knew it on the Mare Nostrum mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u79	In the light of the motion we have already tabled, I believe that there should be capacity for the rescue of refugees. That's wider than just hanging on the coast and waiting to see what's coming. I'm talking about a broad operation like we had more with the aim of preventing unnecessary victims. Moreover, I do not have the illusion that this will give a 100% guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'm just trying to get a little sharper. I supported Mrs Kuik's motion. Does Mrs Kuik plead for going back to the essence of Mare Nostrum, namely getting the rescue operations back to Triton? Is she calling for a doubling of capacity so that we can save more people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u81	I call for a humanitarian action aimed at preventing unnecessary victims and preventing people from drowning. There must be care on those boats to be able to provide acute care, which does more than it does now. I see in the ten-point plan that the first steps are being taken. But I'm asking for a clear effort. If there is an agreement on this tomorrow, I hope that the Netherlands will be prepared to contribute to it. Mr. Chairman. We need to save people, Mrs Thieme said that, rightly so, but not a sustainable solution. The ten-point plan does not mention, or does not mention, the stabilisation of conflict areas and the fight against poverty, the sources of misery. Nor is there any additional funding earmarked for better reception in the region, which is a broad-based wish in the Chamber. The more we prevent people from feeling compelled to make the crossing to Europe, the better it is. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, a political solution will also have to be worked out for Libya in particular. I'd like to know how the Prime Minister sees this. What do we do to address the sources of misery? It is good that there is a firm approach to smugglers. In what way, apart from destroying ships, does this take shape? How will Europe ensure that smugglers are tried, for example for crimes against humanity? We hope that tomorrow, at the summit, Europe will be able to leave the divisions behind. People flee their country because of war and violence and then cross over to Europe to escape sometimes terrible conditions in their own country. The search for a political solution to conflicts, better reception in the region, tackling smugglers, saving people from drowning and pursuing an asylum policy to which all the Member States in the EU are contributing must be Europe's commitment to combating this global refugee crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mrs Kuik said that she would like to know from the cabinet how it is going to deal with the source of the conflicts, the source of all the flows of refugees. We know that the State is currently being sued by the NGO Urgenda because the State does not meet the climate objectives agreed internationally. We know that people are drifting away from the desperation of countries, the fact that there is increasing water scarcity. That desperation needs to be addressed. Is this question from Mrs Kuik an invitation to the cabinet to step up its efforts in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u83	Yes. If people can't get food because of poverty and drought, that's a problem that should have the attention. That is not something that the Netherlands can do in its uppie. It is precisely in this context that European cooperation is important. If you do not want to work together as countries, we are of course nowhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u84	It is good to hear that Mrs Kuik also sees a relationship between the ever-increasing conflicts in the world due to water scarcity and climate problems. Doesn't Mrs Kuiken also have concerns when she hears the state's attorney in this climate policy case arguing that the climate problem has not been proven, so that we really have little to expect from this cabinet if it tries to trivialise the problem in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u85	I always have to be careful to speak out about someone's statements when I haven't seen them myself. More generally, I do recognise that we have a climate problem. I would like to make sure with your party that we can address that problem in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr. Chairman. Last year, 200,000 people crossed the sea from Africa to Europe; to a continent with 500 million Europeans who have more to eat, have no war and suffer less from drought than Africa. Many Europeans see these refugees as a problem. There could even be a cabinet over a bed-bath-and-bread scheme for the small part of those Africans seeking their salvation in our country. It is a fact that more than 86% of refugees are received in the region of origin. In the case of Syria, it is even 97%. In a country like Lebanon, with a population of 4.5 million people, 1.5 million Syrian refugees are seeking shelter. All the neighbours of Libya and Syria have kept their borders open, at the expense of their own economy. Is the cabinet prepared to better support the countries in the region? My group would like the cabinet in Europe to support the creation of safe reception for refugees in a way that helps to prevent refugees from being forced to make a life-threatening crossing through human traffickers. In particular, the VVD is afraid that any form of fellow humanity for refugees will have an aphrodisiac effect. On Monday, Sheila Sitalsing wrote a beautiful column in the Volkskrant. She writes: as if you were opening a pack of cookies; that, before you know it, you would be surrounded by greedy children's hands. For example, we might also imagine refugees; as people who are fully content with their coloring plate, until they are alarmed by the crackling of a cookie pack and think: hey, are there cookies? Suction? The motto of the VVD is: to be consistent, not to give cookies; then they learn it off. Over 100 people drowned in the Mediterranean in the last month. Would anyone seriously believe that these people risk their lives for bed, bath and bread? Or would they come here because they're literally not sure of their lives in their own country? Why is there hardly any mention in our country of the averted effects of hunger, drought, war and climate change, and of our role in this? An old Dutch proverb says we dampen the well when the calf has drowned. Now that thousands of men, women and children are drowning under our eyes, the cabinet has not yet begun to dampen the causes of the flow of refugees. That's that famous VOC mentality. Conflicts are increasingly caused by food scarcity, resulting from climate and water problems. NATO warns of water wars. Researchers at Columbia University point out that the Syrian civil war, one of the causes of the current flow of refugees, is clearly a climate war. Northeast Syria is completely dehydrated due to mismanagement. Hundreds of thousands of people traveled to the major Syrian cities at a time when there was a kind of inflammatory violence in Iraq, which was also a cause of enormous flows of refugees. These conflicts are often referred to in the West as ethnic or religious. In practice they appear to be mainly about water and food. We get roses from Ethiopia and Kenya, beans from Morocco and other African countries suffering from drought. We're getting cattle feed from a fast-drying Brazil. By releasing more and more greenhouse gases, we are only making the problems worse. It is a mistake to complain about people asking for bed, bath and bread, as long as we do not want to face the fact that our prosperity is based on the shoulders of the weakest and on the resources of future generations. Our bio-industry plays a decisive role in the emergence of drought, hunger, climate change and rainforests. For this reason, too, I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr. Chairman. On the south side of Europe there is a tragedy that we witness every day through the media. We have waited too long in Europe. You would expect the Dutch cabinet to deal with this day and night, but for now bed, bath and bread seem more important than today's real problem. This problem is acute. We need to work on this structural problem here. First of all, there is the current humanitarian need. Drenches must be saved, but immediately behind them are the smugglers. They must be stopped. This includes the lawlessness of Libya, Syria and Iraq, as well as Yemen. That is the great structural problem of increasing hopelessness for a large population. The next century will be a century of large population growth in this part of the world. A country like Nigeria will grow from just over 100 million inhabitants around the turn of the century to possible, according to a number of estimates, over 1 billion inhabitants by the end of the century. What we are seeing now is only a fraction of what is to come in the next century. Meanwhile, Europe is becoming an old and ageing continent. Sometimes it seems like we want to close the door. That is not possible, Europe also lives on openness and trade. As far as the CDA is concerned, Europe must not turn a blind eye to the suffering of refugees who are suffering from the threat of war, terror and conflict. Allowing everyone sounds humanitarian, but this will cause an unprecedented crisis. However, the slogan "close borders" of the VVD is also empty. Europe cannot shut itself down. Nor can this crisis be solved by naive generosity. The need is high, the problem is structural, the solution is difficult and the risks are high. Between all refugees and their suffering, for example, there are also warriors of IS. They not only profile themselves, but also move through the suffering of others. Europe has launched a ten-point plan. It's necessary. But paper's been there before. There's got to be some action. When I read that there is a need for more cooperation between European services, for fingerprints to be taken, for stricter rules on return and for closer cooperation with countries around Libya and with migration officials, I have some scepticism. We have seen it more often on European paper in recent years. We thought it had already happened. What could the stakes be? Where will the European presence in the Mediterranean be strengthened? It should not lead to more boats being attracted. Firstly, one must choose to prevent ships crossing the coast just below the coast. That's a form of a naval blockade. This requires a mandate that also applies to operating in Libya's waters. Secondly, with the help of the UN, Europe must set up safe centres in Africa and the Middle East. That's where shelter must take place. It is also our duty to set this up. The EU has a significant budget for development cooperation. That budget must be used first and foremost to alleviate that need. Does the Prime Minister share this and is he going to raise this financial aspect tomorrow? Thirdly, it is impossible to give permanent asylum status in Europe to all those in need after reception. A temporary status really needs to be made possible quickly. Part of this is war displaced persons who can return after the conflict and contribute to the construction of their country. Security and shelter must be provided, but then they must return. Fourthly, reception is a European problem. This means that Europe as a whole must participate. All countries have a job to do. In doing so, I am looking very actively at the countries of Eastern Europe. We see the pressure in southern Europe and the great reception in Western Europe, but Eastern Europe also has a task. Then I come to my fifth and final point. The Netherlands takes its responsibility seriously from the start, but our country knows a border. If there are municipalities in which 60% of the released social housing stock should be allocated to refugees, that is what we are dealing with. This could lead to social unrest. Is the cabinet prepared to set up a number of asylum seekers' centres in such a way that they can also be habitable for a longer period of time? They can then be arranged for refugees with displaced status. Europe faces unprecedented problems. I call on this cabinet not to go rolling around the street and not to think that the discussion about bed, bath and bread is the most important discussion on this issue. That is the solution to the crisis in the Mediterranean, which is also partly a European and therefore a Dutch crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u88	I have heard the CDA Group talk about the status of displaced persons. The big advantage would be that it's temporary. Is Mr Omtzig aware that we already have a temporary situation? After five years it is considered whether the country of origin is safer. Then an asylum permit can be revoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u89	Yes, but we can also assign the status of displaced persons by default to people from a number of areas that we hope will be left behind in five years' time. We'll have to say more often that shelter is temporary. Just when the Netherlands had the largest reception of asylum seekers, in World War I, you may remember, that was consciously temporary reception.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u90	My point was correct: the current asylum permit already has a temporaryity. My question was whether Mr Omtzigt is aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u91	A number of asylum statuses have temporary reception, but there are also people who are now almost directly given final status.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u92	You want to try a third time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u93	I conclude that Mr Omtzigt does not quite know how the right of asylum works. Perhaps Mr Dijkhoff can shed some light on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u94	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u95	Apologies, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u96	I call Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u97	I don't think I'm gonna respond to this. But at the moment, A-status are sometimes written very quickly for people who come here from a war situation. Mrs. Chicken knows that, too. We are not in favour of abolishing the statuses, but we are in favour of a conscious effort to establish a temporary status for displaced persons here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr. Chairman. What happens to refugees in the Mediterranean is terrible. Everyone is aware of that. At the same time, it is not possible to accommodate all these people in Europe. We are in favour of shelter in the region. At the moment there are 1 million new refugees on the Libyan coast alone ready to make the crossing. The EU even maintains these huge flows. For example, Frontex does not serve as an effective border guard but as a pickup service. Once in Europe, refugees are often allowed to stay. Despite the dangerous journey, this perspective remains very attractive. Let us therefore take an example from Australia. That country prevents these enormous tragedies because it does not accept asylum seekers but sends them back. Since 2013, no migrant boat has been able to reach Australia. In Europe too, the core of the problem, the smuggling of human beings, must be addressed. If the boats are stopped at an early stage, many fewer people will die. That is why we call for greater maritime commitment, closer to the Libyan coast. Send the refugee boats back before they go to the open sea. Then destroy the boats and infrastructure of the smugglers. Does the Prime Minister support the Italian Prime Minister Renzi's proposal to intervene in the military? The tragedies in the Mediterranean also justify creating safe ports on the coast of Libya, possibly through military protection. Once again, the ten-point plan from Brussels will not work. No one in the Netherlands is waiting for a European quota and new asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u99	Madam President. We live in the land of the golden mountains and the undisturbed peace. We live on the continent where prosperity is for everyone. No, you won't get that impression if you follow our debates in the Chamber about economics, care and integration. But there are many who look at Europe from the other side of the Mediterranean. Anyone who stumbles in Libya thinks: we are here and happiness is there. The odds that you won't make it there are only 1 in 100. So hundreds of people died on their way here. Men, women and children. Horrible. A nightmare. The question is, what is wisdom? We want nothing more than to save people's lives together. Nobody wants to watch passively in the horrors that are taking place here, but at the same time we want to combat trafficking rather than encourage them so that even more people risk their lives by risky crossing. Well, that's a dilemma, isn't it? I ask the government very specifically how it intends to deal with this dilemma. On the one hand, if you try to save as much as possible, better and more and more people, it can also be an encouragement to continue this route. We also encounter such dilemmas in the kidnapping industry. If you bail out kidnapped people as soon as possible, you do good work but at the same time encourage the kidnapping industry again. I think that is a real dilemma. I ask the government how it intends to deal with this. So how do we prevent the expansion of rescue, which sounds sympathetic to us, from creating a new attraction at the same time? Reception in the region is already taking place, but much more is possible according to the SGP. Europe is not making the most of helping countries in the region. European programmes are apparently only supported and paid for by a limited number of countries, including the Netherlands. Does the government also make it a point of action to point out more clearly their responsibilities to other countries and also to ensure a decent and responsible reception in the region itself? Anyone who has no right of residence must return as soon as possible. Happening return stimulates new influx. The starting point must be that all Member States are fully committed to return. EU programmes provide specific support. We believe it is very important to provide people who can have temporary shelter here, but also to ensure that this care is temporary. In the past, for example, there was support for the arrival of many Kosovars in our country. We recognised a co-responsibility for what was happening in that region, but also strictly held the hand to temporaryity and return as soon as possible. I think that's essential. We support the proposal to destroy as much as possible boats used for smuggling. However, this was already mentioned in the 2014 European Action Plan. Where was the urgency? What concrete results have been achieved and why do I hear questions about an adequate international mandate? Isn't that again asking for lengthy juridication and not a step forward? The International Red Cross calls on the international community to make migrants more aware of the dangers of their journey. Don't forget the disappointments in Europe, which many migrants now experience. Often no residence permit, psychological distress and social problems. A migrant from Senegal, who has taken Sicily, is therefore intriguingly calling out: I beg anyone who hears my voice, do not do it. How does the government intend to contribute to his voice being heard more in countries of origin? This can only be credible if, at the same time, we show that the fate of all those in difficulty is our concern and that we are committed to a better reception in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr Van der Staaij has informed me that he will be replaced by Mr Dijkgraaf later in the debate. I shall then be the last to give the floor to Mr Azmani of the VVD in the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. The continued flow of asylum seekers from North Africa to Europe continues to take its toll. More than 22,000 people have been killed since 2000. Last Sunday there was a new sad low: a boat with over 900 refugees on board that sank, with so far no more than 30 survivors. Men, women and children had been put in the cargo hold by ruthless smugglers and could not move when the ship capsized. It's not five to twelve, it's five to twelve, and spring has just begun. A prosecutor at the Italian Public Prosecutor's Office thinks there might be a million migrants waiting to make the crossing this summer. A million! For the future, everything indicates that this will only increase. It is a good thing that the European Union really seems to be taking action and organising a summit to tackle the immense problem. And it's immense. European Member States have so far placed the burden of illegal migration on one another. Concrete proposals to tackle effectively human trafficking and migration flows are not, or are hardly, coming off the ground. Only very recently have programmes started to run, such as with Libya, one of the largest transit countries. Frontex and the recent new operation Triton, replacing Mare Nostrum, see border surveillance, but do not reduce migratory flows. Rescue operations like last year's aren't working either. In fact, smugglers anticipate this, by putting even more people in a boat and providing only half of them with fuel, resulting in the deaths of as many as 3500 people who died in the Mediterranean last year. The Heads of Government will be discussing a ten-point plan tomorrow, a proposal from the European Commission. The VVD is disappointed with the level of ambition. It's much of the same and little focused on cause control. Major problems deserve great solutions. This means that one must dare to step outside the beaten track. However, the VVD welcomes the harder approach taken by smugglers. It is good that there will be a systematic operation to conquer and destroy the smugglers' ships. The same applies to the closer cooperation between Europol, Frontex, EASO and Eurojust in order to obtain better information on how people smuggle money and how they receive it. It is also good that the European Union is committed to strengthening return and seeking cooperation in transit countries and making better use of intelligence. This is very well-intentioned and I also fully understand the reflex of sending more ships to the Mediterranean. However, this does not solve the problem. It is, and will continue to be, a symptom control and nobody will benefit from it. My question to the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for V and J is therefore how they assess this. Does the cabinet really think that the addition of the Triton operation will prevent people from dying in the Mediterranean, or does the cabinet also fear a counter-effect? Everyone in the Chamber wants to avoid drowning dramas. At last, the urgency has penetrated, but now the proper analysis has yet to be made. Would it not be better to focus on strengthening reception in the region through the creation of safe ports, while at the same time strengthening border surveillance of transit countries and North African countries? Wouldn't it be better to focus on supporting "Search and Rescue" operations by North African countries in the North African coastal waters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u102	Of course, Mr Azmani and I debate refugees more often. I would like to bring to his attention a very recent note from Mr Azmani. Among other things, it says: "The European Member States are shifting the burden of illegal migration towards one another and the number of lucky seekers reaching the European continent continues to increase." With all due respect, is Mr Azmani, in the light of the events of recent weeks, prepared to withdraw from this sentence and from some of the rest of this note?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u103	The note is considered. Perhaps there are elements that are shocking for Mrs Gesthuizen, but she cannot deny that in the flow of migrants coming to Europe there are also fortune seekers who want a better future for themselves. Until recently, the European Member States were mainly concerned with navel stares: who pays what part of the cost of the meal? I hate that, because we speak of people; let that be clear and clear. The solution is actually very simple: you need to bet on getting safe in the vicinity of countries where there is a crisis and people are afraid of persecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u104	We've heard that discussion before. I think that Mr Thieme has just given the right figures. 85% of refugees worldwide are taken care of in their own region. And we look at Syria, then it's almost 100%. There it is 97%. I am concerned about the following. Mr Azmani says here 'we have to solve the problem', but what kind of problem is he referring to? Does he mean the problem of the enormous influx into the European Union? Or does he mean by that the drowning death that many hundreds of people find in the Mediterranean? And we're probably gonna talk about thousands of people later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u105	That is very clear and clear. In the introduction to my note, there's a reason for the story about Samia. That really touched me. I do not think that we can keep a system in the air in Europe that has the consequence of anticipating it, and that is what is causing it. This brings the wind to the sails of the smuggling industry. After all, we do so as long as we keep the current system in the air. This means that a different commitment must be chosen to prevent people from making the crossing. In the end, the problem is the magnetic effect, the attraction, the pull factor, the fact that we are currently familiar with the asylum application in Europe. That's actually the perspective people have. In doing so, people take the risk of letting live in the Mediterranean. In short, that is what it is really all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u106	That's exactly the point I'm looking for. We all agree there's lucky seekers in there. Yeah, that's right. And no, we can't catch the whole world here. We are also in agreement on this. But isn't it part of the problem that people are just finding death in the Mediterranean at the moment? Is the VVD therefore prepared to solve this problem, which Mr Azmani is hopefully also talking about, by ensuring that more people can be saved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u107	That was the whole inspiration of the plan I introduced a month ago. That is actually the worst thing: that we are standing here debating and looking for solutions, while there are boats going into the Mediterranean every day, probably at the moment, where there is a high risk of sinking. This is because there is a human smuggling industry attached to it and because people believe that they have a perspective in Europe. People want to take that chance. This perspective is given by the existence of the asylum application. If we ensure that there are safe ports, safe third countries where refugees can find a safe place to go, these people will no longer have to take that trip. If it is very clear and clear that, on the basis of an asylum application, people are not allowed in Europe because they can find a safe place in their own region, on their own continent, then people no longer have that perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr Azmani just said something I was surprised about. He said it wouldn't help anyone if we sent more rescue capacity to the Mediterranean. I really think the people sitting on those boats don't think so. Mr Azmani and I also agree that this is absolutely not a structural solution, that it does not remove the causes of these migratory flows. Mr Azmani likes to talk about the pull factors, the factors that make Europe so attractive. I think you should work on the push factors. Why are people being driven to Europe? This has to do with climate change, drought, hunger, war and violence. So you have to work on that. If we are working on this, or if we are working on the safe ports that Mr Azmani is talking about, then we cannot be patient in the meantime. Then we have to make sure that people who cross the road are saved in the meantime. Surely this will require an increase in the capacity for rescue in the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u109	I also heard others say that we should actually go back to the Mare Nostrum operation, to triple the stakes. However, we must also learn lessons from the evaluation of that Mare Nostrum operation that was published in 2014. We can learn from this that the human smuggling industry is tough. I feel like it's only getting harder. You can do your surgery again, but you can't stop 3,500 people from drowning in the Mediterranean, like last year. So that is not the solution to the problem. You have to prevent it by using, for example, North African coastal waters. It may be a possibility for you to support the coastguard of North African countries, to prevent people taking those boats into the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u110	In my view, Mr Azmani and I could find each other in dealing with the structural problems, but I do not think there is a single solution in this misery, if I may put it that way. It's about In my view, we should at least scale up in the short term and bring the Search and Rescue through Europe back to Mare Nostrum level. As far as I am concerned, that may be increased even further, because we have seen that Mare Nostrum was indeed not enough. However, you will still have to do and-and-and-do. The key question of this debate is: does Mr Azmani support the call by many colleagues here that additional resources should be available at least at Mare Nostrum level, in order to enable Search and Rescue in the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u111	It's still symptom control. The smuggling industry anticipates this, no matter how many ships we deploy in the Mediterranean. If you really want to avoid that, and I can imagine that there are left-wing parties that might be able to take that view... I wouldn't want to take that on board................................................................................................................................................................................... Then indeed you must go with a frigate to North Africa. There you get them on land, then you take the frigate back to Europe and then you bring them ashore. That's how you avoid those human dramas. But I do not hear that in the arguments of the various parties in this Chamber. I hear there's a plea for the deployment of several ships. And then I say, look at the evaluation of Mare Nostrum. Then we have to conclude that last year 3,500 people died. That's too much. Every life is too much for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u112	The fact is that in the first quarter of this year ten times as many people died than in the first quarter of last year. So one thing turns out: the Italian operation Mare Nostrum worked better at that point, had no difference in suction and picked up more human smugglers. Mr Azmani, as the representative of the VVD Group, is involved, because the political question is: does the VVD Group support the cabinet's commitment tomorrow evening? I thought the Secretary of State was already heading in the right direction. So the question is whether the VVD Group also believes that the European approach has so far failed compared to what the Italians did on their own, at 20 cents per European per year. Mr Azmani presented his note to all of us a month ago. It says: 'We really don't want to include anyone anymore; only Europeans are still welcome in the Netherlands.' So, according to Mr Azmani, Africans are not welcome. He wants it to be only on invitation and not on request. Does Mr Azmani put that into practice and today he is cutting back on the cabinet? Or does he say: no, I am in reality and I think that the European operation should be strengthened further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u113	First of all, I assume that the Triton operation will lead to more people being killed, compared to Mare Nostrum, and that the modification of the operation is the cause of this. That's a wrong assumption. Mr Pechtold cannot draw that conclusion either. Of course it also has to do with the number of movements, the number of people who are now taking the chance to go with those different boats. I would like to draw Mr Pechtold's attention to the statement made by the spokesman of the International Organization for Migration (IOM). That spokesperson himself indicated that it is not about the adaptation of the operation, but about the fact that there are more boats going, that the human smuggling industry is only getting harder and that the boats are in ever worse condition and are more fragile. We have to take that into account. This industry is only getting harder. Smugglers want to make a lot of money and do not cherish the lives of those people. We should. To add up with any kind of budget is to fight against symptom. Then I think Mr Pechtold should take up the challenge of simply saying: we want to prevent it; every life is one too many for me, so I propose that we create a transfer service from North Africa to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u114	That is not the beginning of an answer. Wilders says push away. And the VVD says look away. That's the bottom line. Mr Azmani is the group specialist. He wrote a whole paper on it. The VVD embraced that. The question is what the VVD Group will do with the cabinet tomorrow evening. Is Mr Azmani saying that the cabinet cannot accept the further enlargement that Europe wants? Or does he say that enlargement in relation to what the Italians did is not yet working well, so will the whole of Europe have to take responsibility for that? Otherwise, the Italians will open the border. They don't take fingerprints anymore. Then the refugees instead of on Lampedusa are in one truck ride at Rotterdam Centraal. Neither does the VVD. After all, it is the largest party in government. I just want a clear answer. Does Mr Azmani, in the first place, live up to the words 'borders close' in his note? Or does he call on the cabinet to ensure a better European approach tomorrow evening? It's one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u115	I call on the cabinet to focus on the structural solutions. Short-term solutions, without intensive consideration of long-term structural solutions, have a negative effect. That's what I'm giving the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u116	I come here as group chairman to hold an important debate. I am opposed to the group specialist of the largest group in this House, a government party, who has written a whole note with a dramatic picture of hundreds of people in a boat on the front. There will be a European summit tomorrow. Two of your rulers, Mr Azmani, both VVDs, must go there. We have just heard that there are ten points. One of these is: double Europe's commitment to what we have done so far. I think that is too little, but do you support that doubling, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u117	I'm indicating it's symptom control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u118	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u119	I think I'm talking about my own words. What I'm saying is, it's symptom control. Mr. Pechtold wants to expand it, triple it and return it to the Mare Nostrum operation. Looking at last year's lessons, Mr Pechtold has to agree with me that you will allow another 3,500 people to live such a life. I don't want to assume that responsibility. Human smugglers are tough as hell. They anticipate that. No matter how many boats Mr Pechtold wants to bring to the Mediterranean, people will eventually be put on rafts and brought to the ships and then to Europe. I don't think that's the way we should go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u120	If we can save lives by combating symptoms, I am incredibly in favour of combating symptoms, but Mr Pechtold's question was quite relevant. We are now proposing a doubling of the budget. The very simple question is: is the VVD for that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u121	I think you should look at all the measures in a sort of overall package. I say to the cabinet that I think there is little ambition. We are dealing with a major problem. That deserves a ditto solution. It's all a little bit more now. This does not reflect what I believe we all want in the Chamber, namely the prevention of human tragedies. With a proposal in the vein of plus times three you don't prevent it either. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u122	I agree with Mr Azmani. The plan that's there, with the ten points, sucks. That is not enough to ensure that we are going to save lives. What we do see is that we can take the first steps to meet the first need, namely by ensuring that there is more rescue capacity. There is at least one proposal for this. The question is very simple. I don't need a reflection on those ten points. Can you support that point? That it is not enough, I agree with you. That is not the point at all, and I am not asking a question about it. The question that Mr Pechtold has asked, which I am now asking, and which other colleagues may have to ask, if you do not answer now, is: are you in favour of it or are you against it? It's not very complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u123	I'm looking at it integrally. I look at the ten points in its totality. I believe that more attention should be paid by Europe and by the European Commission to structural long-term solutions, because the mere fact that you are focusing on short-term solutions and symptom measures makes the problem worse than you are preventing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u124	Actually, I had already tried. I have just tried to get an answer from Mr Azmani, by asking: is the problem of the drowning now also the problem to which the VVD refers when talking about solving the problems? I must say that I find it a bit harsh and sad to talk about short-term solutions when we are talking about saving lives. I mean, how short-term do you want to talk about a human life? That's all people have. I understand that the VVD has always been in favour of limiting the use of ships as much as possible, because we do not want that shuttle service between North Africa and the EU. If the plans as presented by the EU in the ten-point plan are all fully highlighted and taken over, does the VVD say here in the Chamber: then we also support the increased commitment when it comes to Triton and Poseidon and then we also support the deployment of more ships? You will have the overall package, but you will also have the support for that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u125	There's more to it than that. For example, I would like to focus more on cooperation with North African transit countries in order to prevent people on the coast of North Africa from getting on those boats. I am talking about my own answers, and I would like to tell everyone in this debate that the increase in the number of times two or three, which some in the Chamber are proposing, will not work. Unfortunately, we will see more of these human tragedies in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr Azmani can get the whole package from me, the full monty. All these ten points may be met from me, but Mr Azmani cannot continue to claim that saving human lives does not make sense. That is what we always talk about in politics. I ask for the last time: if this whole package is implemented and if EU ministers say they are going to and will try to save these lives in all kinds of ways, including through better agreements with transit countries and better coastal surveillance, will the plan to double Triton's and Poseidon's deployment in the Chamber receive the support of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u127	You have to look at it within the integral package. I should first see the whole package on which agreement is to be reached in order to be able to support such measures. I'm not saying I don't want to save people's lives. Of course, I want to save people's lives, but that means putting down and putting down a more ambitious plan and putting on the transit countries in North Africa. It is therefore necessary to focus on safe third countries and safe ports. Once that process has entered into force, I can imagine that you will offer certain solutions in the short term, for example by bringing more boats there. So we should not do that in the context of the package of ten measures currently in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u128	The VVD makes a very clear condition: if this resolution programme in the region is not linked to it tomorrow, the VVD will not support the package as we know it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u129	The VVD wants cooperation with the North African countries. Steps should be taken towards a long-term structural solution. Such a solution means preventing refugees from travelling around the world if they are looking for a safe way. I think that we can come a long way with the Christian Union on this point. I also heard Mr Voordewind talking about safe ports, safe ports. I think we are coming a long way, but the steps I mentioned will have to be taken by the European Union. And so the EU cannot simply use a few more boats to say: it seems that we are doing more. We all know in this Chamber that in the end this is not the answer to the problems we face.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u130	Clear. I note that the VVD currently does not support the cabinet's commitment to the Euro Summit tomorrow. That's too bad. I think many colleagues in the Chamber would like to give that support. At one point we could agree on the need for care in our own region. Mr Azmani also mentioned this in his plan. Suppose this is indeed discussed at the Euro Summit, but at the same time an appeal is being made to the Member States, will the VVD add more money? In other words, what does the VVD do if that extra money is linked to decent care and the demand that people no longer flee refugee camps because of rapes etc.? Is the VVD willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u131	We had this debate a few weeks ago: these are communicating vessels. You only have to bet on something if that leads to fewer asylum applications. The Christian Union must therefore be prepared not to allow the people we receive in the safe ports we create any longer in Europe for asylum. That's how I see it. The conclusion drawn by Mr Voordewind in his introduction, namely that the VVD does not support the government's input, is too easy. I would first like to hear the reactions of the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State. So I think it is important that we pay attention to cooperation with North African countries in order to prevent people from trying to cross the Mediterranean by boat at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u132	In conclusion, I still do not see any support for the Mediterranean rescue plan, which all colleagues have asked about three times. For the alternative presented by the VVD, namely reception in the region, I do not see any money. So you just leave them in the cold, Mr Azmani.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u133	These are very easy conclusions from Mr Voordewind, which he cannot support because of what I said and what is in the plan. I believe that our parties can come together, and we want to move towards a structural solution to these major problems. In my view, it is very necessary for the European Commission to commit itself to this, not in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u134	If Mr Azmani has already finished his speech, we have actually not heard any commitment from the VVD to the European summit tomorrow evening, except for some general considerations. Then let me take two specific questions out of it. Mr Azmani talks about safe ports. Okay. What can these costs be and who can guard these ports: does Europe or NATO do so on the coast of Libya? Who's doing it? So, what's it gonna cost and who's gonna do it? Then there's my second question. A concrete plan tomorrow is also to distribute more fairly 5,000 refugees who are now in Italy across Europe. Does the VVD support that? Does the VVD at all support the plan to say to countries like Portugal, Croatia and Estonia, which are now taking on a minimum number, that if you do more, you could even make the average for the Netherlands more positive? From VVD-optics then: there are a little less. So those are my two questions: safe ports like to work out, and the 5,000 refugees and the distribution system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u135	As far as safe ports are concerned, let it be very clear and clear that cooperation relations can already be established in EU foreign policy. This can be done, for example, with a country such as Morocco, with which initial contacts have already been made. You can implement a system there as we already know it in Europe. For example, Turkey is now experiencing this development, with the reception of Syrian refugees. That is the EU's commitment. Whatever amount you label, it's always more effective than what we're doing right now, which is giving many billions to 3% of the total refugee population. 97% are in the region and UNHCR only has a small budget for this, compared to what we spend here in Europe. If you look in the Netherlands alone, we already lost three quarters of a billion for next year in the context of the first-line reception by COA. That's not what I'm worried about. It is a question of Europe's commitment to this. Mr Pechtold's other question is perhaps a question for the government. In my view, there is a bit of uncertainty about the number of 5,000 referred to by Mr Pechtold. I do not think that is the case with people who are in Italy, but it has been mentioned in the context of resettlement, i.e. resettlement. That's not a relocation. Relocation is redistribution. That is an instrument that is subject to ifs and buts, as the Secretary of State has already indicated in his introduction. I don't see it coming. We must be years away if you want to keep such a system in the air. Then I'd better imagine a bet on safe ports. With regard to resolution, the following. The Netherlands is always at the top of the list. I've already heard the Secretary of State say in his introduction that if you want to do something like that, it's actually a symbol. Inviting 5,000 people to Europe does not solve the problem. However, I would like to see those countries that invest very little in reception in the region and in asylum applications at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u136	Finally, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u137	It is an absurd demonstration that the spokesperson of the VVD, who wrote a note a month ago on refugee issues, particularly in the Mediterranean Sea, today cannot answer the question of what he means by'safe ports', who is funding them, where they are going to be, how we are going to do it and who is going to do it. It is also absurd that he has no answer to my question as to how we deal with the plan to take over 5,000 men from Italy, nor what a new distribution system should look like. They're gonna talk about it tomorrow night. From Wilders we expected it: push away. But the VVD radiates one big "look away." That's the one thing that hits me the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u138	These are very big words. I think that is saying very much about Mr Pechtold's contribution to my input and the answers I have given him. If that's how he's supposed to take it off, so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u139	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr. Chairman. As a division of roles, we have chosen that the Secretary of State will address most of the questions. These relate to issues such as border surveillance and the ten-point plan. I myself will make a number of introductory remarks on the general context and the external dimension, answering four questions raised by the Chamber. May I first of all join with all those who have expressed their disgust at the tragedies that are taking place in the Mediterranean and certainly at the very recent tragedy? On the one hand, we are dealing with a very complex situation that requires an integrated approach, on the other hand, just the everyday reality, the terrible fact that 950 people were once again involved in a terrible ship accident. That indeed requires a stronger and even more focused search for solutions to this very complex problem. Against this background, I would like to make a few comments about where we are at present in terms of the root causes of illegal migration and the issues surrounding an integrated approach. With regard to the root causes, we must first of all realise that we are dealing here with conflicts, human rights violations, but also socio-economic factors. That question was also asked from the corner of D66, SP and GroenLinks. Africa currently has a very rapidly growing population. It's a very young population. Two thirds of the population in Africa are under 25 years of age. This brings with it high youth unemployment. This means that many young people see little perspective on a good future in their own country. That too is a reason why boats from Libya are about half filled with economic migrants from West Africa. If you want to tackle these root causes, apart from the terrible violations of human rights and the serious conflicts that are taking place in the region, it is necessary to look at them together and ensure that the European Union and the Member States use all policies and instruments in a coherent way. This concerns not only our commitment in the political and development fields, but also in areas such as security, trade and investment, and humanitarian aid. The Netherlands contributes in many ways to addressing these root causes. It's known to the Chamber. We do this through our efforts in the field of conflict prevention and mediation, support in the building of stable legal states and inclusive economic growth. In doing so, we ensure that it is possible for people to build up a life there. I refer to the many programmes in the areas of peace-building, reconstruction, development of the rule of law in the region and the many resources available. Dutch development cooperation is strongly committed to promoting this growth, allowing the private sector and thus the middle class in these countries to develop further. As is well known, companies must ultimately keep the economic engine running in these countries. With their innovations and entrepreneurship, they must ensure that jobs are created, enabling the middle class to develop and ensure greater stability. Against this background, I would like to say something about how the cabinet looks at a more integrated approach to the problem. This is our starting point, in which we try to look at the internal and external dimensions of policy in a coherent way, while at the same time looking for solutions on all fronts. In particular, this is important and necessary in addressing cross-border organised crime and terrorist networks and directly related issues of trafficking in human beings and the smuggling of weapons and drugs. In the internal policy area, we focus on strengthening the external borders, supporting Member States in increasing migratory pressure and tackling smuggling networks. For example, on the external policy area, we focus on the UN efforts in relation to the crisis in Libya, in which the Netherlands is closely involved. A political solution is being worked on there. We consider them to be of the utmost importance. That is not hopeless, but extremely complicated. If you look at the situation in Libya and the many facets and hotspots that this internal conflict has there, this is also a matter of continuing concern, which we need to bring closer step by step. As we all know, there is also a major link with migration issues. It means, in my view, that an early agreement on a government of national unity to be formed is essential in this process. The Netherlands attaches great importance to strengthening diplomatic dialogue with key regional partners. First of all, I am thinking of Morocco and Algeria. The Netherlands is also generally committed to strengthening cooperation within the United Nations on political issues and migration issues, while strengthening the various efforts of the Member States. This includes providing protection to refugees in the region of origin. Against this background, Mrs Gesthuizen asked me the unfortunate question of why action is only now being taken. That is a good question, by the way. The picture that exists with many people, namely that we would only be taking action now, is not correct. I don't think we're gonna move until now. I would like to take up this challenge, because the recent tragedies are appalling and there is broad consensus that the European Union needs to take more action to prevent them. This must be done together with the countries of the region and the African Union, where there is a great responsibility. That's exactly what we're working on right now. We don't start from the beginning. A great deal has been done in recent years to tackle migration issues. In this context, I refer, among other things, to the task force for the Mediterranean. There is a wide range of measures, which are now being implemented. We focus on saving lives, making migration flows manageable, tackling smugglers and, above all, tackling the root causes of this migration, so that these flows eventually dry up. So much is happening, but more will have to be done. That is why the European Council will meet tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u141	Indeed, I had asked very specifically how the cabinet is looking at Mrs Mogherini's remark that such a tragedy was needed. Does the Prime Minister recognise that the Netherlands has failed to reduce the rescue operations at sea in recent years, as well as the failure or failure to provide adequate aid to countries such as Italy, Greece, Malta, Cyprus and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u142	I really come to another analysis, especially when it comes to the Dutch contribution. We are very closely involved, for example, in Frontex and its operations in this region. The Netherlands is very closely involved in promoting a political solution to the conflict in Libya. The Netherlands is always prepared to make a financial contribution to ensure that the necessary things can happen within the framework of the European Union. Our contribution to the Frontex Triton operation is undoubtedly one of the greater contributions in the European Union. The Netherlands has also been working for years on issues such as resettlement, while 12 EU countries are currently doing nothing about it. We can therefore see that the Netherlands, translated into Dutch, is boxing above its weight. Looking at the European Union as a whole, it must be noted that the policy has so far not been sufficiently successful, especially in addressing the causes of this migration, for which Libya has the greatest responsibility, for the various groups in Libya, and for the political leaders throughout North Africa, who, of course, bear responsibility for it first and foremost, and for the African Union. Because of the terrible accident last weekend, we can only conclude that we are absolutely not there yet and that much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u143	There are, of course, a lot of things we agree on. We also agree that we are not omnipotent. Many causes are beyond our sphere of influence. We can't change everything. But let me zoom in on the two points I just mentioned in my first interruption. The Netherlands is supporting the reduction of rescue capacity in the Mediterranean; we have seen this happen in recent years. Last year it was decided to stop Mare Nostrum and do it with Triton from now on. Does the Cabinet recognize that this may have been a mistake after all? I went to Greece myself and I have seen how all the people who have been delivered to Frontex are doing excellent work there. But with all due respect, it's not enough. It's not enough if you're flooded by so many refugees. The Prime Minister must recognize that not only now but also in the past, there should have been a few shovels, also by the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u144	I'll give you a few comments on this. It has to be said that in general it has not been possible to bring the migration flows to an end. This is evident from the fact that so many people are still trying to make the crossing under very dangerous conditions. I am convinced that Europe does not have the very first responsibility for solving this problem. The primary responsibility lies with those in power in Libya, North Africa and the African Union. This is happening in that continent and they have a special responsibility in it. Nevertheless, people are not moving south, they are moving north. We must respond to this and ensure that people's lives are not lost. The operation Mare Nostrum was primarily an Italian operation. If you look at the contributions from the Netherlands to Triton and to Poseidon, because Mrs Gesthuizen referred to Greece, the Netherlands really makes an above average contribution. If you look at the sum total of all the efforts and the fact that 950 people died last weekend, you can only see that Europe, but certainly Africa, where the cause lies, has not yet managed to deal with this problem sufficiently. I admit that immediately; Mrs Gesthuizen and I agree. That is why an additional meeting of the European Council will be held tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u145	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u146	The last question I have been asked concerns the level playing field in the European Union. The Labour Party asked for that. Last Monday, at the 'Jumbo Council', the Joint Council of Foreign Affairs, Justice and Home Affairs, where we were represented with the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice, we saw that there is in itself consensus among the Member States to put a stop to this terrible tragedy. This concerns the European Union as a whole, in terms of: what can we do to help Africa solve this problem? The ten-point plan has been accepted as a basis for moving forward. The Secretary of State, asked by Mr Pechtold and others, has already given a number of appreciations on the ten-point plan at the beginning. In answering questions such as relocation and settlement, further weighing will undoubtedly also take place in this debate. However, this does not mean that the implementation is simple. The ten-point plan is also far from being drawn up in many respects. That will have to be looked at carefully. It remains a complex issue, with many perspectives. However, this must not lead to the passivity of us in Europe, and it must certainly not lead to their passivity in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u147	I would ask the Prime Minister to respond to a plan which is not included in the ten-point plan, namely the plan of his colleague Abbott, the Prime Minister of Australia, who calls it 'push back' policy and which I mentioned in my term. The point is that boats are sent back, including to Libya, from where they come from. As long as you give people the idea that they have a chance to reach Europe, people will continue to come and, unfortunately, drown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u148	On the positive side of the Australian approach, it is quite clear who they are and who they cannot allow. At the moment, half of the people who are trying to come to Europe can easily be qualified as economic refugees. They want to improve economically and therefore run a 100% risk of being rejected. So there's still a lot to do there. I would point out to Mr Wilders that, as an experienced politician, he knows that there are considerable differences on two points. Firstly, in terms of the legal framework. Sending back, refoulement, is not part of the legal framework with which we work in Europe. Secondly, there is a big difference between economic refugees from Bonaire, Indonesia and from other parts of the region coming to Australia... Bonaire? Excuse me. What were you talking about, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u149	Borneo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u150	Sorry, Borneo. Bonaire is indeed very far away and it is so beautiful there that there are no economic refugees coming from. So there is a big difference between economic refugees from Borneo, Indonesia and other parts of the region who come to Australia and people who come from Libya and who, in part of the cases, can indeed rely on the degrading conditions they are trying to escape. Finally, I would add that the situation is now that it is possible to send people back to third countries, under all kinds of conditions. So you don't necessarily have to lift them to Europe. You can also send them back to third countries. So that could also be countries in the region. In that sense, Mr Wilders' proposals are not at all out of order or insane. I certainly don't want to qualify it that way. I do see some leads in it, but in the core, "I can't push back any boat that comes from Libya." I understand, moreover, that Mr Wilders wants to do this humanely. He doesn't want people drowning. He also wants to provide a ship so that they can return safely. But that is not possible because of the refoulement agreements and also because Libya really has a different political situation and security situation than Indonesia, for example. So it can't just be taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u151	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I'd like to give a brief response to this. First of all, we can change the rules. Ú can argue that it should be adapted. You can also say in Europe that, in view of the disaster, they must be temporarily suspended. You can fight for that. Are you willing to do that? Secondly, I would like to say a few words about the situation in Libya. There are places in Libya where these people can go back, including non-economic refugees. The new Secretary of State, sitting next to you in trade union K, said in early April in his appreciation of a motion by Mrs Gesthuizen that he is still sending people back to Tripoli and Benghazi, for example. He dissuaded the motion in which he was asked not to do so, because he said it was safe there. That was the reasoning of your own new cabinet member. So it can. If you are not unwilling to do so, make sure that the legal problem is resolved and so please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u152	Again, this really requires a nuanced approach. The same applies to the weighting of the approach adopted by Tony Abbott, my Australian colleague, namely the immediate return of ships. The answer is nuanced. I just gave that to you. I am glad that Mr Wilders is also responding from the point of view of substance. Such a question of refoulement, of sending back, must of course always be considered in the context of whether the people who come to it are in direct danger or not. That's a big difference from Australia. You might as well start the argument that, if people come here mostly from a purely economic perspective, you can say: if we can do it safely, we'll stop you and we'll send you back. But the situation we are talking about is, of course, a whole other one. We are talking about people who are also seriously threatened to a large extent, who are also really threatened in their humanitarian situation. I would like to draw attention to the debate between Mr Wilders and the honourable Member of the Green Left. In that interruption the question was actually: do you not recognise that these people are in a different situation than the people who have to or can go back to Indonesia? That is the Pudels Kern in this part of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u153	The latter is not true. Again, and I didn't just say it for nothing: the Secretary of State for Justice dissuade that motion here. He said that even in Libya there are areas called "Benghazi" and "Tripoli" to which people can safely return, where there is no danger. He dissuaded the motion asking people not to return to it. So it's possible. Anyone can go back. I want to hear it from the Prime Minister anyway. Fortunately, it is a substantive discussion, but it should not be a legal excuse for him not to do something because it cannot be done according to the rules. It would be great if we agreed. If we send everyone back, albeit in a safe way and to a safe part of Libya, no one will come, no one will drown and we will catch the smugglers. If the Prime Minister does not do so and comes up with excuses like "yes, that does not apply to everyone" and "not legally" his answer is ultimately: no. Then he signs again that hundreds of thousands of people are coming to Europe, at least to try and drown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u154	I am making a genuine attempt to fly this with Mr Wilders from the content, as he is used to from me. I'm used to that from him, by the way. Mr Wilders will never use such a theme for electoral purposes. He'll always try to fly it from its contents. That's my boy. That's what I was trying to do here. I said, there's really a lot of facets on it. One of the important aspects I mentioned is the situation in Libya. I would add that it also has to do with the constantly changing security picture. There is another point. You can send people back to third countries. You can do that under Frontex's rules. It's just possible. You can put people on the coast of another country. Then there must have been agreements made with that country. Then that country will have to keep those agreements as well. You must therefore be sure that there is no indirect refoulement, namely that such a country sends someone back to Libya. That's not a legal problem. I agree with Mr Wilders that, if we succeed, we must solve legal problems in Europe politically. That is not always possible, but at least you can choose a political commitment. Mr Wilders is right about that. I would point out, however, that there are very large differences and that we cannot simply copy the 'Australia' model to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u155	Mr Wilders, this is your fourth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u156	I'll draw a conclusion. Now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve. So the Prime Minister is not prepared to argue the Australian model tomorrow. That's what he's saying now. He says there are so many differences that we're not gonna do that. Despite all his fine words, the result is that these people will continue to come and that they will continue to get on those boats, because they know that every capital in every country of Europe has a prime minister like Mark Rutte who says: I want to go into the substance of this, but in the end we should not do it like the Australians. Then people will keep getting on boats and coming to Europe. We will spend a lot of money on this and we will not be able to spend it on other matters. Besides, people will drown. It is disappointing, Prime Minister, that you do not choose the Australian model, but that you will all eventually welcome those people with a lot of woolly words. That's bad for those people and bad for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u157	I have the impression that Mr Wilders had already made his political conclusion in response to this interruption. However, you cannot draw it on the basis of the answer I have given. The answer I give shows that we are dealing with such a big problem that you cannot just reject the approaches that are successful elsewhere in the world. You need to see how the approaches that are successful elsewhere in the world would work out in our part of the world. There is certainly an argument on parts that comes close to the Australian approach. There is also the legal complexity. But once again, I agree with Mr Wilders that politicians can solve them, because where there is a will, there is a way. However, if Mr Wilders denies that there are some very big differences between someone from Indonesia and someone from Libya in a practical sense and purely because of the geopolitical issues that are playing in North Africa and he then draws the conclusion he draws, I leave that to him. I sincerely believe that he cannot draw that conclusion on the basis of my answers. Mr President, I politely suggest that Secretary of State Dijkhoff of Security and Justice should answer the questions about the ten-point plan and border surveillance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u158	Yes, but first there is an interruption by Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u159	I think it is important for the Prime Minister, on behalf of the whole cabinet, to indicate more clearly how the Netherlands is going to operate in the midst of these 28 countries. You will have a vanguard of countries that will develop further plans. There will be countries that sit back when it comes to the reception of asylum seekers. We can see that already. What will the Netherlands do? We will work out those ten points technically, but is the Netherlands prepared to recognise that what the Italians took on their own until recently worked better than what Europe is doing now? So in general terms: tooth tooth, for example through more European commitment that may cost a little more. Is that part of the deal? Does that include the new distribution system? Will the Netherlands actively advocate that the Union as a whole, on the basis of population, population density and gross national product, should take up migration policy and that countries should stick to it? These are the main points, and I would like to hear from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u160	A lot of things are mixed up in this debate, I see. I heard that there were many misunderstandings and even noticed a few substantive errors in the first term of the Chamber. I was shocked to see this, because the Members of Parliament are usually well informed. Of course, I am extremely reluctant to put my finger on the mistakes, because that does not suit me. Since we are not in the role of co-legislator here, but the government's chamber auditor is, I am even more reluctant to do so. Mr Pechtold will understand that. Nevertheless, I'm zooming in on some of the most pressing issues. First of all, let me say what my starting point for tomorrow is. My starting point is that we are sitting there as an EU with 28 Member States. When people say beautiful and warm words tomorrow about the terrible disaster that happened this weekend and about the extremely complex situation in the Mediterranean, I also expect butter from the fish. Twelve countries are not currently participating in the resettlement programmes. I see that the Netherlands has been consistently number 8 on the list of 28 European countries for quite a long time if you sell the asylum inflow against the size of the population. I also see that there are a lot of countries that are doing almost nothing. So one of my starting points tomorrow will be that we have to deal with this with the 28 of us. There's got to be balance. I expect we'll work out of proportion and the charges a little bit... you'll see what happens when you work with the PvdA... you'll be evenly distributed. That seems to me to be very relevant at this point. I also expect us to work from plans. The tricky thing is that there are now two points of discussion. The first is the issue you do with the relocation mechanism in a case of emergency. Then you must first determine what a real, absolute disaster is. We had that once in Malta. Now, according to some countries, there would be such a disaster in five countries that we need to react. We do not immediately say that we do not see the reason for this at all, but we do think that we should identify and consider how we deal with the quality of the asylum application, for example. Let me give you one example: how do you prevent, if Italy and Malta do not have a proper check on it, from passing on suspects of war crimes? But the most important thing is, as far as I am concerned, how do you prevent it from leading to a further extension of the asylum influx in the Netherlands while all other countries do nothing? I'm having a hard time with that. I also heard this in Mr Pechtold's speech. We do not say no to it at all, but I will ask questions about it tomorrow, and what is meant by it and what is to be done about it. The second point is that of resolution. We do this in the Netherlands: 2,000 people over the last four years, i.e. 500 per year. We are therefore participating in this programme, with a specific focus on Syrians, namely 250. Twelve countries - I mentioned that just now - are not participating at all. I do, of course, expect that when warm words are spoken about it tomorrow, the twelve countries will say: we will now take our share. I don't know what that means exactly for the numbers. We are talking about 5,000; not from southern Italy or Malta but from the Resettlement Programme. We need to look very closely at how it works, how it works and what it means in relation to what the Netherlands is already doing. This is how I look at it: very practical, with the positive will to make a good contribution to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u161	We like to help each other make mistakes here. If someone confuses Borneo and Bonaire, we'll fix it without loss of face.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u162	I also apologize to the Antillean parts of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u163	Sure, sure. There are 300, 400, 800 people drowning at once. I'm actually asking about the Prime Minister's intention. How's he gonna get there tomorrow night? Is this going to be a top of toothbrushes because, even when it gets dark, we are going to make sure, for example, that the twelve countries that sit back and speak beautiful words tomorrow are forced to do so? Will this be comparable to 2008, 2009 and 2010 when it came to the banks and Europe said: we will continue to negotiate at that table until at least we have a more ambitious, joint approach to the problem? Now it's hundreds of people who drown every time, now almost daily. Is this one of those summits where the Netherlands takes the lead and doesn't just ask questions? The Prime Minister mentioned butter on the fish. Are we really going to say that we are not going to break up before the somewhat vague texts that are now before us are really being addressed by 28 countries and provided with concrete measures? Think of a better distribution system, more commitment, more finance and care in the region. Is that what the Netherlands is going for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u164	One specific point: there will be no proposal for a better distribution system tomorrow. There's a proposal tomorrow that in case of an emergency... I'm just trying to find a good translation...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u165	Hurry!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u166	... in the event of an emergency or a major emergency, see if the relocation of these people is possible. It is not the case that tomorrow suddenly there are proposals to change the whole asylum policy in Europe. It's specifically focused on emergency emergencies. That needs to be looked at. My mindset will be sure tomorrow night that I'm going to watch very carefully who has warm words and does almost nothing. Forgive me, but I think it is really necessary for Mr Pechtold to agree that Europe simply means making agreements with one another and keeping them. I think it is bad for the whole asylum policy in Europe if only a few countries accept the greatest burden of it. You can see in the Dutch debate that people have difficulty with that at some point. It's important that you show that you're doing it all together. Nor will I accept tomorrow that it is said to be a European problem. It's an African problem. I think, of course, that Europe as a rich continent has a task to support, but the ball really is in Africa. That is where leadership needs to be developed, in Libya, in the North African region, in the Maghreb, but also in Africa as a whole, in the African Union. This is where these problems need to be addressed. We can't solve all these problems. We see people coming here. The question is, that's my third mindset tomorrow. How to deal with this in an integrated way. My toothbrush and shaving brush will go with you. I'm not leaving until I think we're done, unless the president hammers off sooner. And that could just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u167	I am sorry that the Prime Minister has answered a question which I would have liked to ask him repeatedly here. Mrs Mogherini said that this is an EU problem, because it is our sea. Now, in spite of what he said earlier, the Prime Minister is saying that we have a responsibility, that we need to work together, that we need to work together, that we have not yet managed to deal with the problems, that we still have responsibility for the African Union, for the African countries. This means that he does not agree with Mrs Mogherini's observation that people are drowning in our seas, and that the EU has a responsibility to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u168	A responsibility, I'm sure. I named them, too. But there is also great instability in Libya. There is the big issue of people fleeing that country and then trying to get to Europe under dangerous conditions, encouraged by cynical, money-grubbing smugglers. I think that is a problem of Africa in the first place. The Netherlands contributes to a solution. That is what we do with money, and that is what we do with a lot of programmes. We are even military active in Mali to make that country more stable. We contribute in many places in the African region. We must be extremely careful to say that there is a problem in Africa, and that is now a European problem. Europe also has a role to play here. It is indeed a common sea of Africa and Europe, but it is not 'our sea'. It's the Mediterranean. He's also from Africa. I'll always keep an eye on a few things in everything I do. What is Africa's own responsibility? How do we in Europe, with all our warm words, ensure that we all take responsibility for the European part of the contribution to the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u169	Despite the Prime Minister's tone and all the fine and reasonable words, he is making a distinction which, in my view, is very at odds with the Refugee Treaty. That distinction is not allowed under the Treaty. If the Prime Minister is talking about people fleeing Libya, Syria or Mali, can we not say that they are African refugees and that they have to find out? Internationally, with the UN Refugee Convention, we also have a responsibility for those people. That doesn't mean I want to explain the red carpet and say, "Come here, everybody." But I know that we are talking about the figures mentioned by Mr Thieme in the debate: 85% are received in the region and 97% in the case of the Syrian conflict. I do not need to tell the Prime Minister that this is mostly about developing countries, countries that can bear the least, countries that are most at risk of being destabilised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u170	Mrs. Gesthuizen and I are closer together than she is now suggesting. I recognise immediately that there is also a responsibility for Europe under international treaties when people try to find a safe way to get here. My point is that you don't solve this by just looking at it through the glasses of the refugee issue. The common thread in my speech is that this can only be resolved if you look at it from an integrated approach. The question is how do we manage to tackle those cynical smugglers who offer people a crossing under terrible conditions for a relatively large amount of money and to dry up that flow. This requires an integrated approach, and I sincerely believe that Africa itself is first and foremost in the process. We can help with that. That is what we are doing in Mali and with development programmes. We are very much trying to develop the middle class. We are trying to develop trade, we are trying to get business going there, so that we can offer people a future of our own. As I said earlier, most of Africa is very young. I do not have the figure exactly ready, but a large part of the population is under 25 years of age. We absolutely have a contribution to make there, but I am not going to take that responsibility on our shoulders. Then, specifically, the terrible problem of people dying at sea. That is the direct cause for tomorrow's European Council. It leads to a number of proposals from the Commission, which we broadly support and which really need to be worked out in many areas because they are still too unclear. In doing so, my approach will be to really look at whether other European countries are taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u171	The Prime Minister is a well-spoken, well-traveled and certainly well-read man.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u173	This creates obligations, and he must know, like no other, that the Netherlands is not an island. The Prime Minister raises the question of how to ensure that migration flows dry up and that people no longer enter the sea in dangerous boats. That is indeed part of the problem, but I would like the cabinet to answer another question. That is the question of how we geopolitically ensure that all the refugees in this world do not care very much where they end up in a safe haven. If you dare answer that question, you don't point to Africa. You don't reject the question and you don't look away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u174	I am not saying that I would not want to contribute to this. I am also totally in favour of the Netherlands turning the entire development cooperation approach over the past five years from a range of programmes to targeted programmes for the development of the middle class and the economy, so that people in their own country can rebuild a future. That is why, for example, we are active in Mali and other countries to help bring peace and security. I recognise that responsibility and also that we, as a rich country, have a special task here. However, we must be pragmatic and focused. Moreover, we do not have a task because we should feel guilty about our prosperity. I do not feel guilty about it either, but because it is not only in our interests that these countries should be able to develop, but certainly also in the interests of those countries themselves. The broad question of how can things go so wrong there? In the first place, it is Africa's own responsibility. We can help, but we must be very careful to lift every problem on the shoulders of Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u175	The Minister is right that it is an integral problem which has many aspects. The ten-point plan is therefore nothing more than a start to the real solution. It has to do with development cooperation. It has to do with Defence, and that is why I urge the cabinet not to cut back on it. Today, however, we are dealing with those drownings. The cabinet must give an appreciation tomorrow of what we can do at the moment to save lives in the Mediterranean. Does the Cabinet believe that Mare Nostrum should be expanded? In other words, should Search and Rescue be included in the Triton mission in order to double the capacity to save lives? Is the cabinet planning to bring that in tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u176	That depends very much on how Triton will operate. The proposals that are now before us are going a bit the other way. This is based much more on an extension of Triton, i.e. Frontex. I also think that this is the first instrument that you should seize. I believe that there are plans to go from 18 million to 36 million in terms of expenditure from the European funds. All this seems to me to be well carried within a European seven-year budget of more than 900 billion. It would be a useful step if that money could be well spent. However, I would like to make sure that we sit together tomorrow, note that there is a problem and decide to bring a lot of money there. First of all, I want to understand what the best approach is to tackle this problem, including in the eyes of my colleagues and the Commission. I think we all agree that Frontex has a particular responsibility in this regard. Frontex is primarily intended to guard and protect the external borders, but that does not mean that there is a responsibility within the Frontex mandate in case a ship is found. That mandate is already in place, and this point is not new.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u177	Clear. The reason for this European summit is, of course, the 900 additional casualties that have been suffered in recent days, the drownings. This summit is organised for them. We will then be able to think very widely about poverty and wealth and the differences in the world, but no matter how well we mean it, we will not save the people in the boats. The specific question of the Christian Union is therefore whether the cabinet will insist that people are actually saved. So I am not talking about Triton and border surveillance and the requirement that you save people you happen to encounter in your own territorial waters. No, are we going to save people on the Mediterranean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u178	The proposals state that Triton's goal is to strengthen border control. Search and Rescue is bound to be related to this. That's just in Triton's mandate and it's often an automatic consequence of being active and finding things. Fortunately, the Commission's plans also point out that accompanying measures must be taken at the same time in order to prevent the withdrawal. Because you don't want to. What else happens when ships sail by and someone thinks: I can almost swim there? Or: I dare to sail now because I see nearby that I might be arrested if my ship starts capturing? It's got a huge sucking effect. So you have to ask yourself at the same time how to combat it. That also requires money; I am actually repeating myself. There is now 18 million available for it, and I understand that there are proposals to double that budget roughly within the European funds. We are not opposed to this at all in advance, if it can really make a useful contribution. This is also important: if the Netherlands is asked to do more in terms of material and human beings, we will do all we can within the operations; we will also make a contribution within Triton, first of all, my starting point will be that I want to know what the countries are going to do now which are not contributing anything at all. I think that is a logical question, because otherwise everything will end up on the shoulders of a few European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u179	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u180	I'm trying to do it in half, Mr Voordewind. It's becoming conclusions all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u181	Just now, the Prime Minister said that there is not a new European asylum plan on the table, but that it is about an emergency situation that needs to be resolved. Every time specific proposals are mentioned here, such as increasing the budget for the "Search and Rescue" mission, it is said that we need to look at them within a broader plan and in relation to how other countries react. I would like to know from our Prime Minister what the Dutch are doing on this issue. Does the Netherlands think that the contribution should be increased? Does the Netherlands think that more ships on the Mediterranean should contribute to Search and Rescue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u182	I made these comments in the context of the misunderstanding that there would be proposals on relocation for a new approach to asylum policy. The only thing that is now being considered under the ten-point plan is whether this is in the case of an emergency. We have had this once so far, in Malta, I say by heart. That is something the Commission wants to find out. We are very reluctant in that, I say immediately, but well, you can always find out. I had the impression that there was a feeling in the Chamber that this should lead to a whole new approach to asylum policy, but that is not true. I now turn to Mr Klaver's question. If it is in line with the financial frameworks that appear to be so, then we can accept an increase in financial resources in itself, if that leads to a meaningful commitment. But the plan does not come from me or from the Member States. It's from the Commission. Last Monday it was discussed in the joint Foreign Affairs and Justice Council. That is precisely what we want to see tomorrow. I hope that there is also more to what people want to do with that money. I'm not from the department: there's been a disaster, we're going to spend money now. No, a disaster has happened; it requires a tight plan, and if that tight plan also requires money, you must always be willing to look at it creatively. This also seems possible within the budgets available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u183	My question was also this: what does the Prime Minister, the Dutch Government, see as an adequate response to that emergency? Then you can't just say that it's the Commission's plan and that we're looking at it? There is also a substantive commitment of the cabinet, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u184	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u185	What would you like to do to resolve this emergency, what is the Netherlands willing to contribute, regardless of what other countries are doing? What is the Netherlands prepared to do because we think it is important to make that commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u186	We already deliver much more than other countries, on average. So that's not where the problem is. What's my bet? That is that in principle I agree with point 1 of the ten-point plan. It says: strengthening the joint operation in the Mediterranean Sea, which is Triton, but also Poseidon; it just referred to the situation in Greece by doubling the financial resources and some of the stuff you need for it; I am now translating from English, a number of assets. The aim is to solve these problems within the mandate of Frontex. We support that. It also seems that this is financially possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u187	I ask the Prime Minister how real he thinks that other Member States will be asking for an even bigger mandate than the ten-point plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u188	At the moment, my impression is that this is not going to happen. There is also, of course, a constant diplomatic investigation in the capitals. I'm always a little reluctant. So close to a European Council, I usually know about what is going on, but I must be careful, of course, that Reuters does not tell me what I think is in the minds of fellow leaders. Let me give you an aggregated answer: on average, I do not have the impression that there will be a lot more to ask for tomorrow. I may misjudge it, but at the moment that's not my image based on the diplomatic probe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u189	My second question is as follows. Suppose other European Member States do now. Did I hear the Prime Minister right that he wouldn't say he didn't want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u190	Then I'll ask if it fits into the budgets. Again, that space seems to exist within the budgets, at least for the ambition that lies ahead. Then I really want to see the plan and really know if countries are going to deliver stuff, as the Netherlands always does. We make our contribution to Triton with planes and ships. In that case, I really want to know about those countries that are not doing anything or are going to help. Is it more than beautiful words? I think we agree on that. Mr. Chairman. I politely suggest that you give the floor to young talent Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u191	I've had some time to think about that, and I think I'll take over your suggestion. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u192	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I agree with everyone who has named the extent and terrible cynical chilliness of those behind these tragedies. Mr Van der Staaij put his finger on the sore spot in his speech. It is a problem that you would like to solve immediately, but where each solution brings with it its own disadvantages and unintended, and sometimes unwanted, side effects. There are therefore dilemmas. That's what makes the complex. I have heard elements in the contributions of each group that are also in the cabinet's approach. So much for the good news. The less good news is that I do not fully share a blueprint with anyone; it is a combination of measures and factors that we come up with. You can also see this in the list that the European Union is now examining. It doesn't consist of one thing; it's not a matter of "we're just doing this" or "we're just doing that." It is a combination of short-term and long-term measures, which you need to look at in conjunction. The filtering out of one element of these measures makes the assessment difficult. That is why I said in the appreciation in advance that it is always about principles and words and how they will work out, who will take what role and how we will ensure that we do not unintentionally exacerbate the problem. I'm going to go over the questions asked. D66 has asked questions about the fairer distribution of asylum seekers and asylum efforts. This point relates to the previous motion for a resolution, Schouw/Voordewind. I said at the time that I thought the motion was a good idea, but I also gave the profit warning that I do not consider myself to be so high that I can pull out a journey that has been dragging on for years and is becoming more and more difficult at once and get it settled within a year, however much we in the Netherlands would like it to be. The principle, however, that we improve the distribution and ensure that all those Member States do more and improve if they do too little, is a principle that supports the Netherlands. Then I come to the question of the mandate and extension of Operation Triton. Triton is border management under the umbrella of Frontex. We are open to expanding capacity. The question is how this should be done, what is then asked per Member State and what is being asked of us. The extension of the mandate is slightly more complex because Frontex's mandate lies in the Frontex Regulation. So you can't just stretch that out. Mrs Voortman's and Mrs Kuik's motion called for the farmer to join us. It's no secret to the Chamber that I wouldn't have done so without that motion. But with that motion, I did. I also referred the sentiments of the House of Representatives to the European Commission and to the preliminary plan for the European Commission's agenda coming in May in order to move together with a number of countries. However, in that small number of countries alone, it appeared that not only was there no other country that started to extend the mandate on its own and no other country immediately supported it, but that the plan even directly encountered blockades from other countries, who simply said they did not want it. We have noticed that other, large and very large, Member States also do not feel that the mandate should be extended. This means that we foresee that it will not happen tomorrow and that there will be no support for it. Of course you don't sit still in such a case. Nor does it mean that nothing is happening in this area. The mission aimed at border surveillance does indeed do to Search and Rescue. If the capacity of that mission is increased, there is also more capacity for Search and Rescue. There are certainly people saved in this operation, so far at least 7,000. Last weekend our Dutch patrol aircraft contributed to a rescue operation. Unfortunately, it is also not the case that no large numbers of people drowned under Mare Nostrum; that also has to be considered. The Dutch government is committed to helping the countries on the other side of the sea, for the African borders, to develop and encourage their capacity to do Search and Rescue themselves. You must both have patrols close to your borders and carry out rescue operations as close to the coast as possible and bring people safely ashore. I now turn to the question of resettlement. It was said that the Netherlands does 500. I always say that the Netherlands does 30,500, because we also help and count the people who have come here on their own. I have indeed said that we would be above 5,000 if every country that is doing nothing or a few dozen would also do 500, and large countries would do more in proportion. The primary task of the European effort is therefore to reach 5,000 in resettlement. Mr Voordewind has asked a question about creating more legal channels for people to come across. We have it in the context of the after-travel. We are not only offering this opportunity, but are also actively doing something in this area. A large part of the current influx consists of post-exit on the basis of last year's influx. We will see that effect again next year. That is an important title that allows people who have to flee war to find security here. The questions about non-refoulement, the sending back and the pushback have answered the Prime Minister. A question has also been asked about the naval blockade. For a maritime blockade, you need a good legal base, also with regard to the operating area. Then too, you must help ships in distress; Mr Bontes asked for it. If a boat that sails on your naval blockade is suddenly punctured and causes drownings, you have to rescue those people with the Navy ships from the blockade and bring them on board. Under the principle of non-refoulement, you can't send those people back to the war zone. I am not saying that this measure is not effective, but it has its unintended effects again, and Mr Bontes also knew undesirable side effects in this case. The CDA asked about the status of displaced persons. If you get a status, it's always for a certain time. It depends on how you shape it, but in a way we already have an displaced person status. If you extend this status to a whole country where there is war, so that anyone from that country can get that status, you would get an extension to what we are doing now. It's not the cabinet's preference. Addressing smugglers is a priority for the EU and Europol. If international trial were necessary, we would be open to that. So far, the bottleneck has proved to be almost as follows: unfortunately, it is not a country that has people in prison but cannot bring them to justice. That wouldn't be the problem. In order to bring people smugglers to justice, we must first be able to take them more effectively. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the international mandate for the destruction of boats. He noted that this was already in the old plan and that we are doing this already. The latter is true, but that is a different type of action. Italy and Malta destroy the remnants of boats found at sea and used for human trafficking, after the people have been saved from it, so that those remains can not be used for a new attempt. The new proposal, which is more complicated in international law, provides for the possibility of looking on the coast of Libya in front of or in port at which boat is likely to be used for human trafficking and then destroying that boat. That's a little more complicated than that. You should have a new international mandate before you can consider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u193	I have the right to replace Mr Van der Staaij. That question was indeed put by Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP Group. The question was also what was achieved in the meantime with what was already in that plan. Is this being dealt with with with the necessary urgency?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u194	Today's plan, of course, consists in part of previous plans. In addition, it also starts with good will in Europe, because without good will you will never get anywhere. After that, however, it must be followed up and acted upon. It's gonna take some time. Existing projects to promote return are progressing well, as is the Frontex mission. Harmonisation of asylum rules in order to give a clear signal to people who think they can find a future here will not go too quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u195	From this I make it clear that the cabinet is at least committed to the urgency of not only showing good will and putting things on paper, but also carrying them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u196	Yes. I have just heard from the Prime Minister that tomorrow he sees it as his personal task to encourage countries that have done little and had few good words for years to speak good words and to turn them into action as quickly as possible. The Netherlands is already doing a lot of things. That's what we stand for. I think it would be good if other countries that said they were okay with it were going to do it. Then we'll get a lot further. I'll check my list, but I think I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u197	I don't see anyone protesting that. That is why this has put an end to the Government's response. We shall proceed immediately with the second term, in which I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Pechtold van D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u198	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we can talk to the cabinet about this inaugurated summit and I welcome its appreciation. I would ask the cabinet to put this in writing for a debate in future. That is why the Chamber had already requested this time, but it did not. I used the metaphor because I really hope that Europe will show unity at this summit. I agree with the cabinet that the countries that look the other way, but speak fine words, should also be kept in mind and that the Netherlands plays a leading role in this. The reality is that we can never solve it. It is not feasible, but as far as I am concerned, one of the most important things is that we try again to pursue the situation as it was at the time under the control of the Italians. That's why I'm filing the next motion on the rescue capacity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since the start of EU Operation Triton more people have been drowning in the Mediterranean Sea and fewer smugglers have been arrested than at the time of the Italian operation Mare Nostrum;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a European mission which has at least the power and mandate of the Italian operation in terms of the effectiveness of the rescue and handling of human traffickers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-970]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u199	I mean, of course, thanks to the current plan to double the Triton operation, we are not at Mare Nostrum's level. Financially, you go from 3 to 6 million a month, while Mare Nostrum cost 9 million. This is what I like to hear when the cabinet responds to this motion. We also discussed the distribution key today. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber wishes to achieve a balanced distribution of refugees in the EU;]] [[Whereas a balanced distribution is crucial for sufficient support for the reception of refugees in all 28 Member States;]] [[Whereas several factors such as area, prosperity and population density should be taken into account for a balanced distribution key;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and report to the Chamber options for concrete implementation of a more balanced distribution of refugees in the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-971]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u200	In this last motion, "to come" had fallen away, so I recorded it verbally. I'm asking the Registry to correct this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u201	The spoken word counts, so that will certainly happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u202	Mr. Chairman. A single motion from my side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands currently invites up to 500 refugees per year for resettlement;]] [[Considers that, given the high level of unrest in certain parts of the world, this number is not sufficient at present;]] [[Whereas UNHCR calls on the Netherlands to temporarily increase the number of refugees invited to a minimum of 750;]] [[calls on the Government to honour the UNHCR's request,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Voordewind, Mr Pechtold and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-972]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u203	I forgot to mention that I am very grateful to both directors for their first-term response. However, it has not become much clearer to me. In fact, I am rather afraid of the commitment of the Netherlands to the special summit that will be held tomorrow. That is particularly from the words of the Prime Minister, who says that we see it primarily as an African problem. We do not see the Mediterranean as our sea where we are responsible for drowning people. We want to contribute, we want to cooperate, but the solution to the problem will have to be found elsewhere. I believe that this is at odds with the agreements in the Refugee Convention. I can imagine that the government, from certain groups and from a certain sentiment, feels pressure to admit as little as possible when it comes to refugees and to set as hard a course as possible. I'm warning you about that. It is said that it does not really matter to us: it is about human lives, but we are pulling our hands off it. I am not saying that these are the words of the cabinet, but they are words I have heard in the Chamber today. If we say about people we do not know, who come from far away and who we may not be directly responsible for when they are born, that we are pulling our hands off and that it is not our responsibility, then as a representative of the people, I am very afraid of the question of where the border lies. Now the border may be on people from very far away, but I can very well imagine a movement moving a lot further and excluding not only foreigners and people from far away from participating in this society and in life, but also other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr. Chairman. I very much hope that agreements will be reached tomorrow to resolve the emergency situation, insofar as you can speak of a solution. I hope it will be agreed that the capacity for the Search and Rescue will really increase. I see that this is not a structural solution, but I do not think that we should look away at the moment. In my view, the structural solution is rather complicated. Action will have to be taken on many fronts. The policy we have now has to be daring to let go and we have to look at very different ways of dealing with the problem. I'm worried about that. These concerns can actually be summarized in one phrase the Prime Minister used: it is an African problem. If we look at the situation in this way, I am still far from seeing the end of the problems. It's not an African problem. It is a European problem. It is a problem that we share together and for which Europe has a great responsibility to solve. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister will come back to that part of his text, which is an African problem in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u205	Mr. Chairman. I wholeheartedly agree that this is a common problem. It's an African problem. Many countries have wars and conflicts there. It is also a European problem, because many of these people are seeking Europe as a way out of their plight. That's why I have a motion. I just saw that Mr Pechtold had a bit of a corresponding motion, but I couldn't see straight away, so I read out the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, inter alia, it has been announced that Frontex programmes in the Mediterranean are being doubled in the framework of border surveillance;]] [[calls on the Government to also make efforts to double the capacity for the humanitarian aspect of Search and Rescue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-973]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u206	Because it is not just about saving people's lives, we need a broader package. I hope that's what the cabinet is going to do. We have not talked so much about what is possible in Libya itself. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering, inter alia, that a solution to the problem in Libya is ultimately crucial;]] [[calls on the Government, within the EU framework, to examine the possibilities of creating safe ports within Libya,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-974]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u207	I hope that the Netherlands will not only look at Member States that do less. I also hope that the Netherlands will accept its responsibility and, for example, look again at the resolution programme, the invitation policy of the United Nations. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, among other things, discussions will be held on the improvement of resettlement efforts by Member States and an emergency mechanism for the relocation of refugees in the EU;]] [[calls on the Government, within the European Council, to submit concrete proposals to increase the number of refugees invited within the EU and also to increase the Dutch quota of 500 per year, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-975]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u208	I really hope that concrete proposals will be adopted tomorrow to save people's lives and that this more structural approach will be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u209	Mr. Chairman. If you want to stop migrants crossing the Mediterranean, don't let asylum seekers set foot on land. That is a quote from the colleague of Prime Minister Rutte, Australian Prime Minister Abbott. Translated into Dutch: if you want migrants not to cross the Mediterranean, don't let them set foot on land. That's a truth like a cow. I do not understand why this Prime Minister does not embrace the Australian example. Rules can never be the reason not to do something. There's an emergency. Another million people are coming to Europe, and we cannot do that. We cannot do this in terms of country, we cannot do it financially and we do not want to do it. Once again, Prime Minister Abbott, and then I will stop quoting the good man. When he received criticism from the United Nations that his proposal, that Australia's behaviour would be contrary to UN resolutions, Prime Minister Abbott said: Australians are sick of being read by the UN. And so it is, Madam President. We must stand up for ourselves and the proposal is crystal clear. Stop the people on the boats. Send them all back. Give them safe boats if necessary. And you'll see, just like in Australia, that they don't come, that they don't drown anymore, that those smugglers, those crooks and bandits who do benefit from it, don't make a penny anymore and that we can spend the money, which is €26,000 per asylum seeker, on the elderly in the Netherlands, for example. Surely it cannot be that we live in a country where we allow asylum seekers to enter, do not dare to stop them, and take that money away from the elderly in the Netherlands, who need and deserve the money much more. To try to get this Australian proposal into the head of the Prime Minister, so that he will argue it tomorrow at that extra European summit, I move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to propose at the European Summit on External Borders to adopt the Australian approach to border surveillance, actively stopping and returning migrant boats,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-976]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u210	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their answers. I hope, indeed, that tomorrow is not just fine words, but that the European leaders really feel obliged to work together after everything they have said. My group may have a higher ambition in some areas, but I am also realistic. It will still be a great challenge to persuade all Member States to take responsibility. As I said in my initial contribution, I miss the approach at source in particular in the ten points. I would like the Prime Minister to bring that in tomorrow, because it is important that energy is put into it and that initiative is taken. Since to underline I have a motion, which I have tabled together with Mr Azmani of the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that migration to the European Union has also been multiplied by wars and conflicts and that over the past year many thousands of migrants have again been killed on a life-threatening journey across the Mediterranean Sea;]] [[noting that the EU is taking action through a ten-point plan to catch boat migrants and tackle smugglers;]] [[believes that the EU should primarily prevent migrants and refugees in Africa from taking a life-threatening journey to the EU to find a better or safer future;]] [[calls on the Government to work with the EU to step up cooperation between countries on all sides of the Mediterranean, including information, reception in the region and support for African emergency services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Azmani. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-977]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u211	What does this motion mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u212	Sorry, I'm a little surprised by this question. After all, it is quite clear in the motion that we want more energy to be put into tackling the sources of misery, namely the reasons why people are fleeing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u213	Oh, more energy. There. So the coalition has agreed that there will be a summit tomorrow about a dramatic thing that needs more energy. This is nothing, is it? Has Mrs. Kuik read what it says? It's not much more general than that. I mean, anyone can agree to that. Wilders is gonna vote for that right now. I'm really surprised at this coalition. She's been talking about bed, bath and bread for 11 days and what I hear today about what we're doing there again... I'm surprised that even for something as important as that so many people have drowned this quarter, the PvdA then with the VVD, who wants to close the borders, has to work together in some kind of motion that has nothing in it. Then don't! Or you should say: energy means money, which means that we are going to help these Italians with more ships and with more aircraft; the Dutch frigate that has just finished the operation Atalanta off the coast of Somalia can go there. Or we're going to say, well, the budget for those refugee camps where women are now being raped and where children aren't getting education or anything, which makes them flee, we're going to tackle as Europe. Is this really what the PvdA lends itself to by the VVD, a motion that has nothing but: more energy? Mrs. Chicken...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u214	Mr Pechtold is still conducting his own debate and is making a caricature of something. That does not matter, however, because it is a very fair question. With my motion, I call on the Prime Minister and the European leaders to see what commitment they can make to address the source of this problem. As far as I'm concerned, that may be about more money. That may be about helping African emergency services. That is also very specific in the motion. In this respect, it deals precisely with the facets mentioned by Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u215	I just offered you a few motions. A motion was for more effort. That means more money. "No, you can't." This is not intended to put you in your place, but I would like to see in the PvdA's voting behaviour that she also supports a few simple things from the ten-point pan that we have tried to make more concrete in this debate. But that's probably not allowed by the VVD. Because it is only in a motion that we ask for more energy on something that we all want, that really cannot be the outcome of this debate on behalf of two governmental parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u216	It's "plan" instead of "pan," but I get the call. You have also heard my contribution, but I also hope you will support our call that it should be about more than just what is now in the ten-point plan. I also want what the Heads of Government are talking about tomorrow, even more so, which the European Commission is about to come up with, to deal with the source of the misery. That's very much missed now. I am expecting a very clear and ready-to-use action programme on this tomorrow. No, not yet! But this is also my starting point, as was my motion on a broader approach to the rescue mission at sea, which you are conveniently ignoring, had the same goal. So I am realistic, but I do expect the Prime Minister's commitment to this part, because I had not even had the opportunity, because I said: I would like a response to the question how you had seen it translated. That's how I meant her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u217	In response to Mr Pechtold's question, if I have heard correctly, Mrs Kuik said: I want to use this motion to show that we want to go beyond the ten-point plan of the European Commission at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u218	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u219	Now the ten-point plan of the European Commission also states that rules are going to be put in place to allow refugees who have been tried out, illegal immigrants, to leave the country more quickly. We're still in the middle of a debate, but the rumors are buzzing. Can Mrs Kuik confirm whether there is indeed an agreement on bed-bath bread, with which the coalition is trying to get illegals out of the country faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u220	Mrs Gesthuizen, I did not chair the scheme yesterday, but I know that yesterday you yourself agreed very explicitly in the Chamber to break up the debate on bed-bath bread and the debate on the rescue of drownings in the Mediterranean. So I ask you to stay within the agreement you made yesterday in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u221	Well, Mr President, the point is that the ten-point plan of the European Commission states that we are going to lay down rules to ensure that illegal immigrants leave the European Union, the countries in which they are currently residing. The rumor is that there is an agreement between both coalition partners, with which we are debating asylum today...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u222	But... but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u223	Mr President, you don't have to help me. I'll answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u224	I think Mrs Kuik can answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u225	Those are different things. The first question was: is there any intention to look at how we can ensure that the problem of return, which is common in many countries, can be streamlined and more coordinated? That seems to me to be a good thing, because let us be clear: if we want to provide shelter to Syrian refugees, who need it very much, you will also have to be strict on the other hand to ensure that people who have to go back eventually also go back. Your second question was: has there been an agreement? I've heard positive sounds. I expect there will soon be a cabinet response, but we will have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u226	It is up to you, Mr Voordewind. This is not an invitation to go further on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u227	No, I was just thinking if there was a cabinet response...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u228	I am going to explicitly mark that because it has really been the intention of the Chamber to take it apart. I'll give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u229	Mr President, may I make a point of order? I really think you are going to restrict the debate now. We are not going to go into detail about an arrangement that is not yet in place. I have put a simple question to Mrs. Kuik. We are talking about asylum issues today, and this is a point in the ten-point plan of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u230	I think it's... Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u231	I will wait for the outcome of the coalition agreement and the cabinet agreement. Then we know exactly what we are talking about. Well, that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u232	Right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u233	I do have a question about the motion. It calls for cooperation between countries on both sides of the Mediterranean. We need more information, reception in the region and support for African emergency services, but the European Summit is organised to save lives. Now the Triton mission will be expanded. Mrs Kuik has tabled a motion to return to the objective of Mare Nostrum. It's not in there. Nor is it repeated in this motion. I hear the Secretary of State say that we are committed to Triton, but we are going to abide by territorial waters. Does Mrs. Kuik have her own motion killed by the Secretary of State or is she going through with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u234	I find the term used by Mr Voordewind somewhat unfortunate in this case and therefore I do not repeat it. No, my motion, filed with GroenLinks, stands. We want a humanitarian mission. That is also the message that the cabinet must go with. That motion stands. At the same time, I asked the Prime Minister what his assessment is that other Member States will ask for the same demand. I was given the following answer: it is only a pity that I cannot fully conclude what the other Member States are bringing in. However, I am not losing any of that input and motion. I still think that should be the government's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u235	Then it becomes interesting what Mrs Kuik is about to do with Mr Pechtold's and me's motions. They also focus on saving more people's lives. I have heard the Secretary of State say: I do not have much support for it. We have heard the High Representative say that she wants to focus on saving lives. I am therefore curious whether the Labour Party supports the two motions which aim to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u236	I have already tabled a motion on this subject, which will guide the contribution of the cabinet tomorrow and the upcoming plan of the European Commission. Then what does this motion mean? Not only do I expect a response to this tomorrow, but I also expect the European Commission to do so. If you think there should be a better reception, if you think there should be help for emergency services, if you think there should be better help, which Stichting Vluchteling called us yesterday, then that also calls for a certain commitment and you cannot leave that open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u237	I also had a question about the motion tabled by Mrs Kuik together with my colleague, Mr Voortman, because that motion had a little more substance than this motion. My question is actually very simple. What does this motion add to the motion that has already been adopted, which, as Mrs Kuik rightly says, should give direction to cabinet policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u238	I understand the intention to confirm that, but in fact the motion with GroenLinks, as it was adopted by the majority of the Chamber, stands. In fact, therefore, she is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u239	What's unnecessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u240	Not our motion, but the motion that has now been tabled by colleagues from D66 and the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u241	First of all, I must apologize to Mr Wilders. I said I rarely have my mouth full of teeth, but this is a moment when my mouth is full of teeth. I'm trying to follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u242	Then ask your question again, because I may have misunderstood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u243	Here's what I was wondering. The motions tabled by Mr Pechtold and colleague Voordewind give substance to the motion for a resolution by Mr Voortman/Kuiks. The motion put forward by Mrs Kuik excels in generalities. So I wondered what it would add to what has already been agreed in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u244	What motion are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u245	The Chicken/Azmani motion "calls on the government to use the EU to step up cooperation between countries on all sides of the Mediterranean, including information, reception in the region and support for African relief services." I can just imagine that the cabinet sees that as a support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u246	Now I understand the question. I thought you were talking about the old motion Voortman/Kuiks. It's a good thing you're making that clear. Mr Azmani and I are tabling a motion together because we see an omission in the ten-point plan. There is no mention of how to deal with this. We therefore ask the Prime Minister to answer the question of how and in what way an effort is being made. That's the answer I'm waiting for. If we all do not like that answer, then we can ask questions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u247	Mrs Thieme informed me that she had to leave the sitting unfortunately because of obligations elsewhere. That is why Mr Omtzigt of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u248	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answers. However, it is not quite clear to me what the leaders will think tomorrow about all the points, but I assume that they will then agree to the decision-making process. I hope that the government will also do something about the longer term in this decision-making process. There is an acute crisis following the boats that have now sunk. This also requires action now. That was discussed today. The long-term causes, however, do not go away: the conflicts that are taking place in parts of Africa, I refer to the Horn of Africa, Syria and Iraq, and demographic pressure. The latest UN predictions are based on about 4 billion people in Africa in 2100, which means that there are about eight times as many people living in Africa as in the European Union. This will lead to new incidents. Is the government prepared, either in a European context, or in a Dutch context, or with a number of like-minded countries, to think about how we deal with this in the slightly longer term? The status of displaced persons may also be dealt with separately, but this may also be discussed separately, which has been a little too easy to overcome. At present, the status for a fixed time is quickly converted into a status for an indefinite period of time. Is the government prepared to study that and seriously comment on that proposal? However, this does not have to be done in the second period. Finally, I would like to respond to the specific proposals made by the other colleagues of the Prime Minister in Europe at the moment. Prime Minister Renzi of Italy says to set up camps in Niger and Sudan, if possible. After all, a lot of people get through that. Will that plan be supported by the Dutch Government? Or does the government want to do so elsewhere, for example in Libya, as one of our colleagues said? However, Libya has a problem with the non-refoulement clause. Or is that rejected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u249	Mr. Chairman. The solution is a three-stage missile. Firstly, to receive and return refugees in boats early. Secondly, the creation of safe ports. Thirdly, tackling and destroying the infrastructure of smugglers. That's why I'm filing the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas much less refugees will die if their boats are stopped at an early stage;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to the additional European summit for maritime deployment closer to the Libyan coast, with the refugee boats being returned before they enter the open sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-978]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u250	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas every effort must be made to prevent further tragedies in the Mediterranean Sea;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself at the extra European summit to creating safe ports for refugees in areas on the Libyan coast and to develop different scenarios for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-979]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u251	The final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Italian Government intends to tackle human traffickers through military intervention;]] [[calls on the government, at the extra European summit, to express its support for these plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-980]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u252	Madam President. Everyone, including us, was saddened by this debate. There are no easy solutions. The Prime Minister has talked about an integrated approach, which appeals to us. We will really have to change all the sails on all fronts to reduce this problem, without pretending to "solve" this tomorrow, because no one can do that at all. What also appealed to me was that the Prime Minister said that it is particularly important to discourage smugglers. Unfortunately, as long as they see bread in this, such situations will continue to occur. Again, we will have to do it on all fronts and we will have to reset all sails. All EU countries must assume their responsibilities, including the Netherlands. The Netherlands is doing the same for an important part, but we too will have to make every effort. However, we cannot have countries doing little or nothing. I therefore strongly encourage the Prime Minister to put that forward tomorrow. I had prepared one motion on good information. The International Red Cross and the Refugee Foundation have insisted on this: take it at the source, ensure that people receive good information there. See also those poignant images of someone who had just survived and said in front of the camera: if people knew what was happening to them, they wouldn't. Yeah, people need to know that in advance. However, Mrs Kuik has already tabled a similar motion with Mr Azmani. This motion has already been widely discussed in the Chamber in all the enthusiasm of colleagues. It will also receive broad support. In any case, she will have our support. Tackling at source is absolutely essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u253	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions raised by the Chamber. I found the Prime Minister's reflection on the developments of the population on the various continents to be special. They also have a long-term impact on migration and on Europe. If two thirds of the population in Africa are now under 25, if these people are not offered a future, perspective and development, but if they do see them on the European continent, where we are dealing with ageing and hazing, then you can see the problems in the long term emerging before your eyes. We have a migration policy. It's regulated, but it's not controlled. It's him in the asylum policy. That is why there is also the proposal that it should be fundamentally different, beyond the beaten track. This means that our own continent must also assume that responsibility. The countries have already incorporated these obligations into treaties for themselves, but have not yet implemented them. In any case, I am pleased that the Prime Minister is in such a position that he now wants to see the responsibility of the 28 Member States, including those that are always on the bottom of the lists, with fine words but no action. I'm so happy about that. Of course, I have tabled a motion with Mrs Kuiken aimed at the source, in order to prevent these human tragedies happening in the Mediterranean Sea, which is aimed at reception in the region, information and support for the North African relief operations that are, of course, taking place there. At the same time, however, these boats must be prevented from entering the Mediterranean. Finally, I wish the Prime Minister a great deal of wisdom for tomorrow. We look forward to the outcome of the summit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u254	A month ago, this VVD, Mr Azmani, issued a note on refugee policy, particularly around the Mediterranean. This is the subject of a debate. In that debate, he does not make any concrete proposal by means of a motion. He's not doing anything with his own note. Today we have a specific debate in preparation for an important European summit, where he can realise the ideas of his plan. And again, nothing comes of the VVD. And that while the VVD provides all headlines with the aim of closing Europe's borders, there is no more entry. Isn't that absurd? Is it not your role, Mr Azmani, to steer and influence government policy in the Chamber instead of just creating headlines that voters then think: oh, that the VVD will do with those 40 seats?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u255	With all due respect to Mr Pechtold, I consider him to be very high. I presented a plan. There had just been an arrangement of work in which it had been decided to hold a special debate on that Azmani initiative. There was a majority for that. That didn't even require my support. In the first debate held in the Chamber, a look-back debate on a European summit, Mr Pechtold and Mr Buma immediately included literal quotes from the plan in a motion. Not the conclusion, but all the measures to eventually stop asylum applications in Europe were literally contained in a motion. That motion was then put to the vote by Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Haersma Buma. We know the result: there was no majority for that. That plan is therefore initially gone as a result of Mr Pechtold's motion and the majorities in the Chamber. I am not the type of MP who makes motions if I know in advance that I will not get any support for that. That is why I have now tabled a motion with Mrs Kuik to take steps in this area. Mr Pechtold may blame us for not having anything in it, but there are three things in it. Firstly, care must be provided in the region. Secondly, there must be information, because refugees who manage to reach mainland Italy indicate that they never want to do so again. They want to warn of hell on boats on the Mediterranean. There must therefore be information. Thirdly, support must be given to African emergency services to prevent boats from entering the Mediterranean Sea and causing damage. Those are the concrete measures. Then Mr Pechtold can say that this is nothing and that I am not doing anything with my plan, but I think that things are happening now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u256	Information and reception costs money. Tomorrow, our Dutch Prime Minister will be negotiating. He can give the example by saying that the Netherlands believes that the European Union should contribute so much or that it should make boats available. He could ask, "Who's doing that, who's with me?" The two government parties are today able to influence the policy that needs to be shaped in Europe. But I only note that the spokesperson for the VVD, Mr Azmani, has ideas of his own. During the previous debate, I even supported him in trying to do so, because that is of course what it was to sum up all those ideas. In doing so, I wanted to show that his idea that the boundaries would be closed is nonsense. That's what it turns out today. I find it really disappointing that Mr Azmani of the largest government party is just waiting to see what comes out of such a summit and does nothing, while there are two VVDs in box K.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u257	I can also hear Mr Pechtold wandering around in this. He said in his term that he felt it important that we should focus on care in our own region. I recognize that also a bit from the D66 programme of the past. This is a bit of a caricature. I have no need to respond to that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u258	I have a brief question for Mr Azmani. Just like the Prime Minister, he prefers to compare the Netherlands with countries in Europe that do much less, to receive much less asylum seekers and who have less to do with a huge influx of refugees who want to apply for asylum. Why does he not compare the Netherlands with countries that are doing a little better, such as Germany or Sweden, where many more people are welcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u259	I believe that the Prime Minister's plea is that the 28 Member States of the EU should feel jointly responsible for this. You must not only confess responsibility with your mouth, but also turn it into action. But this would be better if Mrs Gesthuizen asked the Prime Minister directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u260	I'm having trouble with this. We all agree that a country doesn't want to get flooded and that everyone has to do their part in it. All shoulders must bear a piece of the load. I object to the image being sketched, not only by the VVD but also, for example, by the PVV, that the Netherlands is taxed out of proportion within the European Union. We could also look at countries that are far more progressive and that see it as a global problem and not as a primarily African problem. Those are the countries that say: we help as much as we can. Why is there always a comparison with countries that do less? Why don't we even look at countries that do more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u261	We're doing it above average. We are always at the top of the lists and in the dates. Countries such as Germany and Sweden are inviting more people. At the same time, we see the problems that this poses in those countries. Germany has invited a lot of people and now calls on the other Member States to actually take over people. In Sweden there is a major integration problem with Syrians who have concentrated and are based in Malmö. We have also seen the political developments that have brought about. A cabinet has even fallen in Sweden. With all due respect, I know that it is a position of the Socialist Party to bring as many people here as possible, but I do not see it that way. I see very great dangers for Dutch and European society if you do that, namely disruption and hatred.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u262	It can be answered directly. It was, of course, also a long interruption, so it gave the opportunity to prepare for it. I give the floor to the Prime Minister to respond to the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u263	Mr. Chairman. One question has been asked to me, namely where the responsibility lies. My belief is that the root causes, the root causes, and the need for an integrated approach lie primarily with Africa. Of course, Europe has a responsibility to help solve this problem, but it must not make this problem its own. I'd like to deal with two motions. The Voordewind motion in part No. 974 concerns safe ports in Libya. We consider that to be a very delicate concept. It is not appropriate, especially in Libya. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the Bontes motion to item No. 980 refers, if I understand her correctly, to point two of the ten-point plan, namely to catch and destroy, of course, boats used by smugglers, before they can be used. I would recommend that this motion be held. This point is part of the 10-point plan. We really need to wait and see the Commission's proposals for this. In such a complex issue, an international mandate is simply crucial. My request to Mr Bontes is therefore to hold this motion. If he doesn't, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. Secretary of State Dijkhoff will continue with the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u264	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mr Pechtold's 970, I advise you. We follow the Commission's proposal. With this you have a doubling of the impact force, but this happens within the current mandate. Mr Voordewind spoke in support of Mrs Mogherini. It has also called for efforts to save, but within the mandate. With a doubling of the capacity within the mandate you also have a doubling of the capacity for Search and Rescue. We stride when it comes to extending the mandate, but we have noticed that it is a bit of a donquixoterie to keep repeating it. We prefer to save the effort of the Netherlands to focus harder on the points where we do see that we can achieve something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u265	If I may ask the Secretary of State: Europe recognizes that there were two ministers at the time that the current commitment is insufficient. Europe says in the proposals of the 10-point plan that we are going to double them. My analysis is that we are not yet at the level of the better functioning Italian system. Do I hear the Dutch Government say: we are content with a less effective system because we are making it jump at 3 million a month?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u266	It works differently. The mandate is different. This is based on the regulation, which is also different. But the Frontex operation has something that Mare Nostrum didn't have, namely the focus on tackling human smugglers. Now the doubling of the budget is ahead of us. Money alone does not yet make sense; there must be a plan first. If a plan is to be drawn up tomorrow which will require further planning, we will seriously consider it. But this motion also calls for the mandate to be extended. We have noticed that this road is impenetrable for most countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u267	Yes, for most countries, but this is about the Dutch commitment. I find it regrettable not only in the tail of the debate but also annoying to note that the Dutch government is going to support the PvdA, which says: the first objective of the Frontex mission is border surveillance. It is not, as the Italians did, reception of drownings or a balance between the two. I clearly hear the VVD again in this debate determining what is happening: it is about guarding the Mediterranean and not about rescue operations, as the Italians did first. I hope that the PvdA Group will take advantage of this. They will soon have a group meeting to support a motion from me or Mr Voordewind to ensure that at least the cabinet changes its mind on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u268	I'd like to add a nuance to that. It's a border guard with rescue missions. If you save people on a boat, you don't ask for a mandate. With a doubling of the stakes, you can also double the bet of the Search and Rescue. I think Mr Pechtold is proposing it too black and white. If the motion asks anything about the mandate, I will not say: I do not want to do so. No, I say that we have done so and that our commitment to this in the European context in recent days does not lead to support. I can say that we are going to do it and then mumble something, but then everyone says no again and I say that I did. I think it is fair to say to the Chamber that our commitment is also realistic. We have shown this commitment and the result was that those countries did not embrace it. Then we should try to achieve the desired effect in a different way, namely by doubling Frontex's capacity and by using 'Search and Rescue' operations by other countries, such as North African countries, which do so closer to the coast of North Africa. This will be done with European support and, as far as we are concerned, with European resources to shape this support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u269	If, as a Member of Parliament, after three times having bumped my nose, a lot of proposals would not have made it in the end. This Secretary of State's commitment is important. A motion has been passed here, including by the Labour Party, to continue to work on extending Triton's mandate. This is not just about territorial waters, it is about something wider. The goal is to save people's lives. I encourage the Secretary of State and his Italian colleague, together with Greece, to continue to argue with the High Representative, who was previously responsible for Mare Nostrum, in order to save as many people as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u270	When I hit my nose against the door frame and I see another door with which I can achieve the same effect, namely coming on the other side of the wall, it just seems to me wise to switch. Mrs Voortman's and Mrs Kuik's motion called for this and had a broader variant to achieve this. That is what we remain committed to. I have just indicated which two channels we really want to provide more Search and Rescue. This motion is very specific on one means, the frame. I don't think that's such a passable road, and that's why I'm not suggesting the motion. If, through the extension of the mandate, the Chamber is determined to achieve a more humanitarian character, rather than the ways I have just mentioned and which also lead to more Search and Rescue, then that vote must show that. With the motion that was there, in which it was argued for more Search and Rescue, I simply continue in the way I have outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u271	The Secretary of State does not have to work for a doubling of Triton, because that is already in the ten-point plan, so he can spare himself that energy. Mr Kuik's motion aims to rebuild the Triton mission and extend its mandate to Mare Nostrum. That was the bet. The Secretary of State has apparently made an effort to do so, but is now back to the situation. It is not the case that an expansion of Triton automatically leads to the rescue of more people, because ultimately it is the same territorial waters. If the mandate is extended, we can save more people. I hope that the Secretary of State's commitment will remain fully focused on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u272	Just saying that I'm going to retable a motion or do anything else doesn't seem to change anything behind the table. I'm just looking for other roads. At a time when more countries still want the mandate to be extended or a greater effort in this area, the Dutch cabinet must join. That is a guarantee and a commitment I ask from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u273	Of course, that depends on what else they put in there. Of course, we are not blocking it when it comes to that. But for that, a lot should happen in 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u274	I understand that much has to be done with other Member States, but at least the Dutch Government's commitment will be clear when that request comes. We're still in the middle of summer. There's still a lot going on. I hope that at least the issue of the extension of the ten-point plan rescue missions will be quickly implemented. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see if we can evaluate it after a fairly short period of time, so that we know if it does what it should do and if it is sufficient? After that, there will soon be an opportunity to discuss this with the European leaders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u275	I do so anyway in the sense that we are all following developments to see whether the fine words are being translated into action. If a decision is taken tomorrow to double the EU's funds for that mission, then we need to keep an eye on whether it is actually being implemented. We will involve it further in the decision-making process within Europe itself. After all, it is difficult for me to evaluate the whole of European policy from the Netherlands. That we keep an eye on it and ring the bell if we think nothing will happen to those fine words from April, Mrs. Kuik can be sure of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u276	In conclusion. I am concerned not only with the fine words and at least with the first steps being taken, but also with the question of what effect it has and what its effects are. Is it enough? I also expect the government to show its willingness to resume discussions in Europe in order to reach the much broader mandate that Mr Pechtold is advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u277	I think it will be discussed at every JHA Council after this summit. I fear that this problem will remain topical for quite some time, because of course it is not just gone. We will always take these aspects with us on the JHA Roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u278	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u279	Mr. Chairman. In his motion in part No. 971 calls on Mr Pechtold to identify options for concrete implementation of a more balanced distribution of refugees in the EU. That is support for the policy and I am therefore happy to leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The ACVZ is conducting an investigation at the request of the Ministry. The cabinet will take this point into account in its response to that investigation. In the motion in part No. Mrs Gesthuizen's 972 talks about the 500 refugees that the Netherlands invites each year. I always say: and the 30,000 that we have already received in 2014 at least. It won't be surprising that I'm deceiving this motion. In an earlier debate, I have already indicated that I can imagine saying that if there is a great humanitarian need and no one can find us, we can do something about it. However, we are already doing a proportionate amount of reception and we will therefore have to focus on those countries that do not. We will have to do more about this through this programme, and that is the commitment of the cabinet. In the motion in part No. Mr Voordewind also called on the government to make efforts to double the capacity for the humanitarian aspect of Search and Rescue. That is support for the policy and I will therefore leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. I indicated earlier that by doubling the commitment, availability and capacity, there could also be a doubling of the "Search and Rescue" aspects of the mission. Mr Voordewind's motion for a resolution 974 I must also advise against. The first part of the operative part I understand and I can go a long way along with that, but the second part is about increasing the number of voluntarily re-established people. As a result, the motion looks like the previous one, and I therefore advise against it for the same reasons. The motion by Mr Wilders and Mr Fritsma in respect of item No. 976... I see from his gestures that this motion, according to Mr Wilders, is one of his best motions, but I also advise against this motion. The reasons for this opinion were discussed in detail in the debate. Mrs Kuik and Mr Azmani have taken part in this debate. 977 joint motion for a resolution tabled. I leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber, because the motion supports policy. Mr Omtzigt has not tabled a motion, but he has asked me a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u280	That was all your reaction to the Chicken/Azmani motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u281	Yes. I said the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u282	...support policy is. Is that really all you're going to say about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u283	And judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u284	And judge Room. There are several aspects to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u285	But I'd like to have a little more substantive explanation in what way...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u286	...this motion will be carried out in the event of their adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u287	The motion will be adopted, because we already had the majority. But I would also like the Secretary of State to indicate how the government intends to implement this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u288	I haven't been doing this for so long. Usually people walk when you betray something, and they're very happy when you say the judgment is positive. I can also say that I think it is a good motion. If you want to know exactly how we are going to implement her, a letter can usually be requested after the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u289	It's a summit that's gonna take place tomorrow. That is why it is right for Mrs Kuik to ask for a little indication of how you are going to do this and what is more important than what you are already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u290	Now, I'm going to try to tell you via telepathy what the cabinet is going to do. It is, of course, the Prime Minister who will be there tomorrow. He will take this with him tomorrow and bring it into the debates when the ten points in the plan are discussed further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u291	Then I think it would be wise for us to have the Prime Minister come back at the end and continue with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u292	This is a serious point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u293	It certainly is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u294	There is a motion from the two government parties, and the Secretary of State says browsingly: support for policy. Mrs. Kuik just had to defend that they really want it. The question to this Secretary of State is: if this motion is adopted, what will the cabinet do differently than it does now? I would like to hear that on a point-by-point basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u295	It's possible. To step up cooperation between countries on all sides of the Mediterranean: that is indeed the commitment we will have tomorrow. There are many issues involved: projects that promote return and encourage them themselves to do Search and Rescue in cooperation with the countries on this side of the Mediterranean. Those are things I'm thinking about doing right now. In the future, if the situation stabilizes, it's about concluding agreements that would allow you to bring back people you save at sea. That is not possible yet, but I understand that this is one of the aims of this motion. We will work on reception in the region as soon as possible, as well as in the region where it is already possible. Supporting African emergency services I feel as a support to. perhaps I should not have said "policy"....................................................................................................................................................................................................... This motion would not only be the rejection of our intention by the Chamber but would even be the full support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u296	Mrs Kuik, I understand that you are going to continue the debate with the Secretary of State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u297	I understand the Prime Minister is about to respond. I'm reacting a bit of a tickle. I also understand that the opposition thinks that you should have tabled a more concrete motion yourself. I deliberately did not do that because I know that every word will be placed on a scale. But I do expect that, in addition to a ten-point plan, we will, so to speak, have an eleven-point plan. Indeed, all Members of Parliament have found that there is one fundamental thing missing, namely: what are we doing to tackle the sources of misery? What can we do about it? So I expect the cabinet to say: we think this is a very valid point; we are thinking about it, and that should actually be point 11 of the action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u298	I have apparently caused irritation by allowing this motion to speak for itself, just as I have done with other motions from other Members of Parliament if I was positive. Then, in my view, I mentioned six specific points concerning the way in which we are going to shape this and we are going to introduce it...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u299	The Prime Minister will be back in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u300	...with which I may have contributed to the acquisition of even more support. I come to Mr Omtzigt's questions. He asked if we could take a broader look. That's right. The European Commission is already working on this. Apart from what is happening now, the European agenda will be in May. Then the cabinet will respond and it will undoubtedly debate this with the Chamber. With regard to the status of displaced persons, we need to make contact. I get a serious reaction every time, but it is about this being the principle of policy. If Mr Omtzigt has any signals that this is being dealt with in the implementation of the policy, I am glad to hear it. Then we shall go back to that. The setting up of the camps is one of the elements of reception in the region. If there is a concrete proposal for this tomorrow that is feasible, it will be an element that the Netherlands can make itself felt, as I said just now, when I dealt with the previous motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u301	Thank you. I will come back to the status of displaced persons in a later debate. Indeed, it has to do with the point that there is a somewhat clearer review after a number of years, if you have already been admitted here, to see if you get a final status or if there are possibilities for return. I have one last question, the camps. The Prime Minister has the Voordewind motion in part No. 974 not recommended. It refers to the establishment of camps in Libya. The motion tabled by Mr Bontes in respect of item No 2 will probably be put to the vote at the next voting time. That is why 979 is not recommended, because it resembles the Voordewind motion. However, the Secretary of State now agrees with camps in countries such as Sudan, not the biggest human rights paradise we know in this world, and Niger. Can he indicate in what kind of countries Europe is going to set up camps and in what kind of countries it is not? What is the policy framework on this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u302	No, I responded to the plans announced by Mr Omtzigt, which have yet to come from another country. To that I say: if there are plans, we will take them seriously. If they contribute to reception in the region in a safe and sound way, that was the problem with the previous motion, the starting point for the cabinet is that we are positive about it. Of course, we will always test how feasible this is. That's why you have to see the plan first. That's gonna have to come first tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u303	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u304	I will also advise against Mr Bontes' motion on 978 on maritime deployment closer to the Libyan coast. Pushbacks are not possible within the current framework. So we can't do the requested one like this. There are also clear judgments under the ECHR that we cannot just say tomorrow that we are going to do this. The motion in part No. I would also advise against Mr Bontes' 979. This motion coincides very much with the motion by Mr Wilders and Mr Fritsma. I've already responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u305	The motion in part No. 980 was already done. We need to take a look. There's confusion, including with me. The Bontes motion in part No. 979...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u306	...I've been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u307	You didn't advise him. And the Bontes motion in part No. 980 has already dissuaded the Prime Minister, I understand now. But Mr Omtzigt wants to know what the reasoning was with regard to the motion in part No. 979, over the safe harbours. You gave a reasoning about pushbacks while this motion is about safe ports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u308	The pushbacks were at the motion in part no. 978.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u309	That was in part No. 978. Let me now turn to the motion for a resolution on part No. 979.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u310	The judgment continues to be dissuaded, I'll tell you that. This is mainly due to the situation in Libya at the moment. It does not lend itself to realizing what is requested in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u311	Yes. The situation in Libya is not safe enough to do so. Thank you. I shall give the floor again to the Prime Minister, because he promised an answer in response to the Kuiken/Azmani motion, in part No. 977.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u312	That motion was taken from my heart. How do you end up dealing with problems in the region itself and in the country itself? How do you ensure cooperation between countries on all sides of the Mediterranean? I do not already have a comprehensive action plan in place. After all, the motion is just new. But it is very important to me and also to my entire first-term speech that it is very important that responsibility is also taken in the region itself and that we make a contribution to this. I can't promise there'll be an 11-point plan tomorrow. I don't know if I'm gonna get this far, but I'm gonna try. If it is not an eleven point plan but a ten point plan, we will continue to focus on this type of policy. I can promise you that without a second thought. I will also ensure that the European Council report pays particular attention to this point and to the implementation of this motion, which I suspect will pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u313	I said in my second term that I would not table my motion because Mrs Kuik had tabled a motion, partly on behalf of Mr Azmani. The element I would like to emphasise is that of information. The International Red Cross and the Refugee Foundation say that this is underexposed in the current plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u314	I am looking at the authors of the motion, but I think that is not contrary to, but rather supportive of, the motion. I like it, too, so we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-7.u315	We are going to vote immediately today on the motions that have been tabled. We're gonna do that in ten minutes.
