ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to the First Chamber. For him, it's the first time in his new position that he's been defending a bill here. I wish him a great deal of wisdom. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren for his maiden speech, for which I will ring the bell again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u2	Madam President. It's a privilege to stand here. The first time I dealt with the First Chamber, I was in high school here in The Hague. It's been a while. I had a drawing lesson on the other side of the court pond, opposite here. I remember it well. I thought it was boring, and I didn't think it was a privilege. It didn't occur to me at that time that I could play an active role here again. As I said, I think that is a privilege. I think it is important to be able to contribute to the stability of our country. The First Chamber has an important role to play here, especially in the present circumstances. When you talk to foreigners, I often do so, they almost always praise the stability of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is known as a well-organised, financially sound and socially balanced country. Our consultation culture is widely praised as an efficient way to govern a country. If you follow the domestic discussions, you can see that the appreciation for that is much less. Moreover, reality is more nuanced than one thinks abroad. Institutions are getting weaker, political parties hardly have any firm support anymore, and the tone of the political debate rarely focuses on reconciliation. Majorities are no longer self-evident. That raises the question of whether our consensus culture survives. I'm optimistic about this because the search for consensus is anchored in our tradition. In practice, important compromises have so far been made, both in politics and in society, if it is really necessary. If a threatening situation arises, compromises will be made; see also the agreement on the Tax Plan that has been reached in recent days. I think that is positive, and with that basic attitude, I would also like to deal with the draft bill that is before us today. The CDA Group considers this bill to be important by its very nature. Nature conservation is a great asset, and the extent to which it is done is a sign of a country's civilisation. Protection of nature as such is not controversial. There is little or no skepticism of the kind that J.C. Bloem described in his famous poem De Dapperstraat. It contains the following well-known verse: "Nature is for satisfied or emptying. And then, what is nature left in this country? A piece of forest, the size of a newspaper, A hill with some villets on it." You don't hear that much today. On the contrary, the pendulum is clearly going the other way. The bill grants nature the predicate "intrinsic value." There has been much to do about this at the various stages of the legislative process. Quite rightly, because by placing the intrinsic value of nature at the centre, other interests must not fall into a disadvantage. The CDA Group attaches importance to a balanced balance of interests in licensing and the like. It sees the creation of this balance, and in particular the conditions for it, as an important task for the legislator in this matter. The CDA Group would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he can guarantee this balance. This is all the more important because a balanced balance of interests is necessary in order for legislation such as this one to function without resistance. This potential resistance is to a large extent present, as was also demonstrated at the hearing held by this Chamber on 26 October last. There is an emotional charge in the debate, particularly in the area of hunting, but also in the area of territorial protection. There is still considerable resistance among many citizens, particularly among agricultural entrepreneurs, to the protection of sites resulting from Natura 2000. There is much incomprehension about limitations to business operations. The CDA Group is calling for the attention of the Secretary of State. Is the involvement of these citizens in the development of management plans sufficient? How are the experiences here? And is our species protection policy in sync with that in our neighbouring countries? We would also like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. In order to allow for a proper balance of interests, the cabinet has opted for decentralisation to the provinces in particular. This is happening in a far-reaching way. The CDA Group supports this policy, because our party traditionally believes that decision-making should take place close to the most relevant level. Given the nature of the case, the province is the right level of scale for this. Given the great interests at stake, a good evaluation seems to my group nonetheless desirable after some time. Another way of achieving a balance is the introduction of fauna management units in the hunting field. These units must indicate afterwards whether the results of the hunting fit into the nature management plan. Hunters must be required to be members of these management units. This has been criticised in their circles. This criticism conceals the feeling among many landowners, who have sometimes been managing nature on their territory for generations, that they are overly dependent on government leadership and that their ownership rights are too limited. In response to written questions on this subject, the cabinet responded in a technical and legal sense. I do not think this is the way to satisfy this group of citizens directly involved in the subject. I advocate that a structural consultation with these landowners be established at provincial level in order to achieve better mutual understanding. After all, all those involved aim at the best possible management of nature. The CDA Group would also like a response from the Secretary of State on this point. The fauna management units can play an important role in this. During the hearing I noticed that some nature conservation organisations have some fear of being involved. They don't trust it. I don't think this is the right attitude. Participation in consultations and compromise on fauna management offer an excellent opportunity to strike a right balance and bridge the gap between different groups. The latter, as my speech shows, is of the utmost importance. The subject of the Nature Protection Act affects everyone. Many in this country are active, passionate even involved, each from its own position. It seems to me that it is time to bridge the differences through effective mutual contact and consultation. The CDA Group calls on the Cabinet to create opportunities for this in the context of the planned decentralisation and to actively monitor this in the context of the evaluation. A final point is the relationship of the Nature Protection Act with the future Environment Act. These laws are supposed to be intertwined. There is much to be said to wait for the adoption of the Nature Protection Act until the integration of both laws can take place. The motives for the creation of this Nature Protection Act are threefold. It is a question of integrating three old laws into a new one, in order to better align them with European legislation and to modernise the administrative instruments. Read for the latter: decentralisation of powers. All important motives, but not of such urgency that waiting a few years to achieve a truly responsible legislative process would be irresponsible. Given the role of this Chamber, this is an important consideration. We are now going to introduce a law without great necessity, which will have to be incorporated into a larger body of legislation in the foreseeable future, with all the uncertainties of that. This isn't good. In this view, I am still strengthened by the growing concern in the congregations. As of 1 July 2016, they will be assigned licensing tasks under this Act for which they do not currently have the expertise or the financial resources. We are going to introduce a law on which the people who have to implement it are not calculated at the moment. And without having to. The course of history will not change if the draft Nature Protection Act remains on the shelf for a while. I would like to hear a well-founded opinion from the Secretary of State on this point. Madam President, so far. The CDA Group awaits with interest the reactions of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u3	Congratulations on your maiden speech. "Senatores Boni viri, senatus autem mala bestia." Senators are good people, but the Senate, on the other hand, is an evil beast. It is an ancient Roman saying quoted in the book Il Gattopardo of the Principe Di Lampedusa about the life of the aristocratic Sicilian family Salina during the unification of Italy at the end of the nineteenth century. I understand that you have read a book which inspired your long career as employers' lobbyist, and I am curious whether you have read it in Italian or in Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u4	In Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u5	In Dutch. This career began in 1987 with the Dutch Christian Employers' Association (NCW). Before that, you had worked at the Ministry of Defense for eight years. In 1991 you joined the NCW Director of Social Affairs. This function also continued after the major merger with VNO, the Confederation of Dutch Enterprises. In 1999, you became General Director at VNO-NCW, a position that you hold to this day. In addition, you have been the director of the SME Netherlands since 2012. For decades you have been a driving force in the socio-economic Netherlands. Trouw even called you "The Unrecognized King of the Polder" in 2014. You have seen many times that employers and workers were confronted in negotiations. In your opinion, this can be useful, provided it is temporary. The ultimate goal must always be stable industrial relations. In the end, they always found each other in the last 30 years. And as far as you're concerned, it's gonna be a long time. You usually do your job behind the scenes. This place offers you a good starting position for the discussions with the cabinet and the trade unions. This makes it easier to water the wine and go along with the changes of time. "Adjust you to consolidate your power," the prince of Salina would say it in the book Il Gattopardo. In the book, the protagonist, the prince of Salina, is offered membership of the Senate. He refuses to do so because he does not believe that he can contribute to the great changes that the country is undergoing and because he is not sure what the role of the Senate is in this. In response to his strubblings he is told that the Senate is the flower of the politicians of the country, who approve or reject laws for the development of the country, which functions as an incentive and a brake, which encourages good action and prevents bad action. That reminds me of Dark Curtius in 1848. I hesitate if you consider the Senate to be "flower of the nation," but in this particular case you have fortunately chosen to choose a different course than the Prince of Salina in the book Il Gattopardo and decided to step out of the scenes for one day a week. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues and myself to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am happy to take part in the debate on the Nature Protection Act. I would like to begin the debate with the recently appointed Secretary of State. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate him once again on his appointment and express the confidence that he is following in the footsteps of his highly esteemed predecessor, Sharon Dijksma. I have every confidence in that. As far as the present bill is concerned, the VVD appreciates the inclusion of regulations in the natural domain in one law. The same applies to the intention to integrate this law into the Environmental Act. With regard to the latter, the VVD Group wonders whether this operation should not have been carried out at once. The periodicity of integration could lead to problems. I'll get back to you on this. First of all, I would like to address a number of issues of a more fundamental nature, regulation, nature management and management responsibilities. I shall confine myself to the main points; I shall leave the details aside. First of all, the title of the law: Nature Protection Act. This title has a wrong approach to nature management, namely a defensive one, one that expresses the threat to nature and must be protected from unpleasant processes and actors. I admit that this is indeed the case for specific and very special natural values. But this approach ignores the essence of nature management. The VVD has already raised this issue in the written round, but also in the reply there is one-sided vulnerability, constant decline and therefore the need for protection. At the same time, it is emphasised that nature in this bill "should be strengthened with society instead of against society." Why not choose this as a general motto? Would the Secretary of State like to go into this again? Why doesn't he choose the title "Law Nature" or "Law Nature Management" to accentuate the positive place of society? To support him, I would like to make a few comments about nature in the Netherlands and its place within the many spatial processes that have taken place in our country and are still taking place. To be immediately clear: The Netherlands knows no nature, with perhaps the Wadden Sea as an exception. I've argued this before in this house. Pure, pristine nature characterizes a physical and biotic habitat where man's hand is absent. Such a nature is worldwide, but not here. Nature in the Netherlands is part of a diverse cultural landscape, man-made or at least so influenced by man that there is little left of the original natural situation. And that's a good thing, given the unviable situation our country once knew. The variety of cultural landscapes has large numbers of natural values, sometimes sought after by man, sometimes spontaneously originated. In this respect, there is little difference with the "new" nature, developed by land managers, often with the use of technical interventions that remind in everything of the landscaping that we have also used in the water domain and the agricultural sector. Much of this new nature is artificial, planned, made and sometimes extremely expensive. Why not positive recognition that nature and culture are intertwined in our country and that it is important to create this intertwinedness? This brings nature much closer to society and sees man less as threatening, but rather as a source of creativity. This can also help to overcome the many walls of distrust and opposition. In this respect, the new agricultural nature management is a welcome challenge. I'll get back to you on that. In this recognition of the creative place of man we can also get rid of the very strange cramp of the so-called "new wilderness," as the nature reserve Oostvaardersplassen is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u7	This is, of course, a very interesting, almost philosophical speech by Mr Schaap. He's also mentioned it here before. I hear him now saying that it is also a practical argument. He says there is no nature in the Netherlands. I would like to ask him a question about this, because I cannot follow him on this point. Apparently Mr. Schaap finds nature only something that has never touched a human being. However, I believe that nature concerns plants and animals, their habitat and their habitat. If you go through Mr Schaap's reasoning, you could say that all European legislation, for example on the Birds and Habitats Directives, can go to waste. That regulation is always intended to protect nature and that nature is therefore not there, according to Mr Schaap. What are the consequences of his opinion? He says: throw all the regulations that protect nature but in the trash bin because we have no nature in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u8	No, I am very much in favour of regulation, and I am also in favour of some of those European directives and their implementation in the Netherlands. However, regulation calls for management, for creative response to what the directives require of us, and so on. Regulations therefore also require a good look at how the natural values to be protected in the Netherlands are intertwined with the cultural landscapes, which are always in development. In short, it is an extra challenge. What I mean by the remark that we have no nature in the Netherlands in a strict sense is that there is no longer any mention of the original, physical, biotic environment here in the Netherlands. We've completely transformed it. We've made it into something beautiful and livable. We must, above all, continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u9	Clear. Then I understand you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u10	I think we'll agree on that. I'm also looking for my friends... Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the Oostvaardersplassen. There is a beautiful film about it, entitled The New Wilderness. "Nice" as a movie, anyway. However, the new wilderness is a cramp, because in this area there is anything but wild nature. On the contrary, there is a through and through artificial creation. On this point, I would like to comment on Mrs Vos's speech. I said we don't have any nature here. In this sense, the Oostvaardersplassen area is anything but an original nature and certainly not a wilderness. It's a human structure. Talking about a new wilderness is a misleading cover-up of a project in which the fauna there suffers terribly. I draw attention to the fate of the mammals there, who are usually dying there. So just admit that you have cultural landscapes in the Netherlands and that in them all kinds of natural values have developed and can develop. And we can't do that without management. Management must steer, but may also leave the necessary to chance. This also makes sense in the context of the one-sided emphasis on conservation declarations. Again, why is it not expressed in the title of law? An issue that leads to incessant discussion and emotions is the management of fauna. Mr Van Kesteren pointed this out. This includes hunting, which is to be understood as the management hunt. There are quite a few people who assume that if you let processes freely take place, there will be situations of balance on their own. You also encounter this in the economy, for example in the creed of neoliberalism. This ideology states that a free market spontaneously creates market equilibrium and that distortions then belong to the past. For the record: a free market exists nowhere and attempts to achieve it only lead to unmanageable misery. From the same type of ideology, a freed nature would also lead to self-balance and resolve disruptions by itself. Such a belief would make management largely superfluous, especially in the form of hunting. However, nature has no balance, even if man does not use it. For humans, nature produces dangerous imbalances, such as natural catastrophes, diseases, plagues, shortages and so on. So man is forced to intervene in nature. Besides, in the original, pristine nature, no one can and will live. Control of nature is therefore a necessity and management as well. Management must protect not only man but also nature itself, i.e. flora and fauna, respected values, against excessive imbalances. The VVD Group is therefore pleased that the law leaves room for hunting as an instrument of management. The fact that hunters are happy to take up their management duties is fine. The VVD is confident that this type of management can be regulated with the use of fauna management units and that stakeholders participate constructively in them. Does the Secretary of State wish to comment again on the recent state of affairs in these fauna management units? I come to a crucial understanding in the bill: the intrinsic value of nature. Mr Van Kesteren also pointed that out. I have previously dealt with a similar concept in this house, in the treatment of animal legislation. The intrinsic value of the animal was at stake at that time. I'm having trouble with this terminology. Firstly, we are dealing here with a logical inconsistent concept. The concept of value is through and through human. It is the appreciation of something we find or want to realize. We add this value to things, so to speak. In that man is dominant; it is his value judgment, his explicit desire based on his appreciation. Because of this explicit human character of the valuation, this value cannot be intrinsic. The term "intrinsic" should silence us, but then there is no value. In addition, the concept here refers to the value of nature as a whole, as if there were the intrinsic value of a collective term. Such a great thing is far beyond human imagination. Nature is supposedly a total concept, something metaphysical. The concept of "intrinsic value" can only cover specific cases, i.e. certain species in certain situations. Then we do not appreciate an acceptable or unacceptable property of a plant, animal or physical environment. It's a trait. Such a property can be positively valued, but this valuation can also be negative, such as with regard to parasites or harmful fungi and insects. They are not worth protecting at all, as the response in a generic sense actually claims. It's in the bill and we can't get it out today, but I would urge the Secretary of State not to do too much with it. For another reason, the VVD Group has difficulty with this concept. This is linked to the nature test mentioned in the bill on spatial planning plans. The bill seems to be so perplexed by fear that something is lost and must therefore be declared protective, that intrinsic value of anything within the physical and biotic world of life must be declared dominant in relation to all possible other values that man wants to give space in the spatial domain. It is not just the explanatory statement that suggests that in spatial proposals the nature test should first be carried out and then any other necessary tests. This goes beyond involving nature aspects as early as possible, namely: natural values, in spatial procedures and then within an integral approach. This also concerns the weight to be assigned to spatial values. It can only be said that the intrinsic prowess of nature in a broad sense exceeds or exceeds other values, even if it cannot be demonstrated what a weight it is in this aspect of nature. The mention of its intrinsic character says enough and places it outside the integral consideration of values in spatial developments. This does not seem to me to be in line with the functional integrity proposed by the Environmental Act, including the proportionality offered for this purpose in the balancing process. As a former water manager, I could hardly keep my eyes dry when the explicit power of the water test was removed from the Environment Act, but the law system does demand this, and the principle of a weighted integral consideration should ensure this interest. It seems to me that the importance of distinguishing natural values in this weighted and proportional balance should also be taken into account. Will the Secretary of State address this issue and make it clear how the intrinsic value of nature and the nature test fit into the Integrated Environmental Law? Then there is the process of actual integration of both laws, i.e. the Nature Act, if I may call it that, and the Environment Act. If this bill is passed, the Environment Act is still involved in a long procedure. After entering into force of the Environment Act, a new tour awaits the force, namely the addition of AMvBs and then the implementation of this far-reaching law. Now I consider the Environment Act to be an example of a successful law of organisation in the classical sense of the word. I say this with a great deal of positive appreciation. Laws in the Netherlands increasingly have the character of an instrumental product that needs to be written and implemented quickly in order to achieve a short-term goal as quickly as possible. The regulation element in the legislation is the victim of this. This is at the expense of the capacity of legislation, but also of the acceptance and authority of laws. Our former colleague, Willem Witteveen, states in his posthumously published book De wet as an artwork that laws are meant to create order in society and that contemporary instrumentalism strongly threatens this principle. So the law is an opportunistic disposable article. I quote this to pay my respects to the Environment Act. I come to the problem that raises this bill. In the middle of the careful process of the Environment Act, the integration of the Nature Act must be taken into account and that, while we still have to get used to the Nature Protection Act. Isn't this getting too much of a good thing? How to deal with different procedures, standards and valuations? Is it wise to make this bill law now? Shouldn't we leave the bill for a while and make it ready for integration into the Environment Act and then adopt it and take it into the implementation process? I would like to hear a statement from the Secretary of State on this complicated matter. What procedure does he intend to proceed with? I would also like to mention one small point which is connected with the integration of this legislation into the Environment Act. The VVD Group assumes that this integration implies that the departmental organisation of nature policy is co-adjusted and that the nature policy is transferred from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to that of Infrastructure and the Environment. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this matter. The VVD Group welcomes the fact that nature policy is essentially moving from the Ministry to the provinces. A large part of this policy is tailor-made. This also applies to the implementation by institutions responsible for this purpose, such as site managers. However, nature policy also has national and even international aspects. In any name or establishment, there are ecological structures covering large areas. At regional level, ecology does not comply with provincial boundaries. For my part, no evil word about the provinces, quite the contrary. Still, I have a few questions. Nature policy, planning and implementation policy can, for administrative reasons only, concentrate on individual provinces. This could lead to a fragmentation of policy. This is particularly annoying in the case of cross-border interweaving of ecological values. Does the Secretary of State recognize this problem? Does he want to make it clear how this is handled? How is it ensured that provinces coordinate their policies sufficiently? Does he want to make it clear how provincial autonomy fits in with the responsibility for nature policy as a whole that the Empire has? I would like to make a comment on the implementation of nature policy and, therefore, on the transfer to management organisations. The past that has not yet been completely closed has led to shyness. I am referring to the equal treatment of the involvement of organisations which must take charge of implementation. Hopefully, this issue can be resolved in the short term and all those involved can implement the principle of equal treatment which has already been accepted. Executive institutions have once again set themselves up as exclusive directors in their own domain, with a clear boundary to others. In the meantime, there is also movement in this area. In addition, interesting developments are taking place in agricultural nature management. This then leads to an interesting set of managers in our country: State Forest Management, next to the TBOs, so Natural Monuments and the provincial landscapes, and these again next to in the meantime fully recognized private managers and then the agricultural nature managers in the new setting. It would be of great value if these organisations were to jointly implement the management of nature in full openness. We can strengthen each other and implement management with the greatest possible efficiency and effectiveness. It would be of great value if all kinds of unnecessary tensions between nature management and other spatial values could be mitigated or even converted into mutual reinforcement. Now I am personally closely involved in these processes to know about the developments in this area, but the VVD Group would appreciate hearing the views of the Secretary of State on this. How does he intend to contribute to this integration, effectiveness and efficiency through his responsibility? The VVD Group awaits with interest the reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Van Kesteren once again on the maiden speech. It is, of course, a special pleasure to debate today for the first time with the new Secretary of State. I congratulate him and wish him every success in his important work. We have indeed had interesting and beautiful debates on the Nature Protection Act with Mrs Dijksma, the predecessor of Mr Van Dam. We'd like to continue this with him. Nature is not doing well in the Netherlands. This spring, the State of Nature report appeared in the European Union. The Netherlands is the worst of all European countries in terms of the state of habitats of species. Of these habitats or habitats 96% are unfavourable or poor. The Plan Bureau of the Environment showed the same picture for habitat types in the 2014 Balance of the Environment and mentioned that three quarters of the protected species were very unfavourable or moderately unfavourable. The World Wildlife Fund notes in Living Planet Report Nature in the Netherlands 2015 that the size of populations of animal species in the agricultural area decreased by an average of 40% between 1990 and 2013. Our meadow birds, so characteristic of the Dutch cultural landscapes, are also doing extremely badly. Of the field lark there is only 5% of the number left, of the grutto only 30%. The intensification of agriculture in the Netherlands is largely responsible for the poor situation of meadow birds and many other nature. The intensive agriculture, as well as traffic, cultivation and industrial activity, are responsible for fragmentation, dehydration, nitrogen pollution and other environmental pollution that pollutes and affects habitats. The cabinet strives for a robust nature that can take a hit and that goes hand in hand with the economy and society. How does the Secretary of State see this for himself in a densely populated and intensively used country like the Netherlands, where the intensification of agriculture, traffic, cultivation and other activities continues? Does the Secretary of State agree with GroenLinks that a robust nature requires robust protection with robust environmental boundary conditions, i.e. more extensive agriculture, higher groundwater levels, lower fertilization, management that leaves room for the development of nature, less nitrogen pollution and more peace, darkness and space? The report on the poor situation of species habitats is a sign on the wall. Nature will not recover and will not become more resilient and robust if nothing happens to pollution, dehydration, intensification and fragmentation and if no robust enclosure of sufficient size, connected in a robust nature network, is created with buffer zones at the borders. We are concerned about this, because we are still facing structural austerity. The great austerity, initiated by the Rutte I cabinet with Secretary of State Bleker, has only been partially made up for. How can we achieve this robust nature network with this austerity? We often hear that it is difficult to manage nature sufficiently and that it is very difficult to acquire new nature. In this light, we are very critical of the optimistic stories of this cabinet that nature and economy can go together. It is not self-evident, certainly not under current policy. The cabinet masks reality and avoids choices; choices that need to be made to protect and develop nature, to protect landscapes and to make natural experience fully possible. The Netherlands often thinks he is the best boy in the class. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Wie echter naar de resultaten kijkt, kan niet anders dan constateren dat Nederland tot de slechtste jongetjes van de klas behoort.]] I have just mentioned all the results from all kinds of international monitors. What we need to realise about the Birds and Habitats Directives is far from being in the picture. That is why we are critical of the Dutch lobby for greater flexibility in the Birds and Habitats Directives. Above all, the Netherlands wants less, while the results of current policies are totally inadequate. The Netherlands claims that the level of protection remains high, but different. Honestly, I think that's a spelling formula that throws sand in the eyes. What does the Netherlands mean? It is quite similar to the lobby of former Prime Minister Balkenende, who also lobbied for a more flexible Birds and Habitats Directive and the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, at the time, was told that the existing directives already offer sufficient flexibility and space for the dynamics of nature that the Netherlands so much wants. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what his commitment is to the so-called "fitness check" of the Birds and Habitats Directive. As far as my group is concerned, this law must help to strengthen the protection and development of nature in the Netherlands. For us, that is the test criterion. The law will replace three laws, lead to an integrated and simplified framework, takes European regulation as a starting point and anchors European rules in a recognizable way in the law. The cabinet does not consider the current legislation and system to be sufficiently transparent and complex and considers this to be a risk for the proper application of European rules and adequate protection. The cabinet says that the new system we are discussing today is considerably more accessible and transparent. We are happy to support these objectives, but are they being achieved? I would ask the Secretary of State to clarify once again that this new law and this new system are so much simpler, more transparent and more accessible. In addition, we have great concerns as to whether the law will be properly implemented, respected and enforced, otherwise a law will remain only paper. It's about what you do in practice. Frankly, the enforcement of nature legislation in the Netherlands has not improved over the last 20 years, for example due to the disappearance of the special field police and the cuts. Also the enforcement via the spatial rail network, through the granting of permits and exemptions, is not very good. Governments often don't like to put off economic activities. In the past many eye-openers have been allowed, with the enormous expansion of intensive livestock farming in, for example, Brabant and Limburg without the legally necessary permits being granted. After years of tolerance, we are now in the period of money laundering those tolerated situations; unfortunately, I cannot say otherwise. As far as supervision and enforcement are concerned, our policy is getting a grossly inadequate one. What is the government going to do to improve all this and to enforce this new law properly? Will the cabinet ensure sufficient capacity in the provinces? The RUDs will probably have to perform a large part of this task. Is it guaranteed that they have sufficient capacity? Will there be sufficient and additional financial investment? We ask for a clear answer from the cabinet. How will the Nature Protection Act be incorporated into the Environment Act, which is now under discussion with us? Can the Secretary of State undertake that the level of protection and the instruments in the Nature Protection Act will not be weakened in any way when incorporated into the Environment Act? In our opinion, the bill is mainly a law of missed opportunities. We find that extremely regrettable. We see progress on a number of points, but also shortcomings in the law. That is what I would like to say in this contribution. First of all, I would like to mention a number of positive points. We welcome the concept of "intrinsic value of nature." That important starting point is laid down in the law. It indicates how nature is viewed: not only from the point of view of man, but also as a value within itself. The question is, of course, how this concept is operationalised. Shouldn't it have had more hands and feet in the law? The cabinet replied in writing that it does not consider this necessary, but we regret that. We would like to see a form of investigation or a more detailed report on the possibilities for the cabinet to operationalise this concept. Is the cabinet prepared to do this? We are also positive about the active species protection provided for in Article 1.12 of this bill. This is a gain compared to the current legislation. For example, active species protection is of great importance for the protection of meadow birds, which have been severely reduced under current nature and environmental regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u12	I come back to that crucial concept in this bill. Mrs Vos rightly calls it that. She says that nature is not only something that needs to listen to values that we place over it, but that you have to acknowledge that nature also has values in it. Can she give an example of a value in itself that nature would have?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u13	For example, biodiversity, the diversity of nature and the diversity of the system as a whole, making nature a strong and stable ecosystem. I imagine that you call that a value within yourself and that value really needs to be taken into account in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u14	This is another fine example. When it comes to the question of what a value an sich is, it puts an idea right over it, namely biodiversity. That is another human concept, a human criterion that we attach to it. The concept of diversity also needs to be further defined; which species do or do not belong to it? In short, it's always the man who puts it over. That value in itself is a contradiction. There's no such thing. That is the big problem with this basic concept in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u15	No, I think this is important, because this principle recognises that nature is also a value in itself. This means that species richness and different species deserve to be protected, to be able to survive, and that ecosystems and conditions are such that this is possible. This does not mean that this is always the only absolute value, but this shows that the value of nature plays an important role when you weigh what is most important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u16	So still weigh again, so still be proportional again. So, as a human being, you're trying to sort it all out. We do not need to discuss this infinity, but I would like to give Mrs Vos a note that she is always stuck with the statement that nature has this in her. You stay away from nature, then she's intrinsic, then you let her go, or you manage her, you're working on it. As a human being, you define what you want with nature. It's either one or the other, but a mixture of those two doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u17	I do not agree with Mr Schaap. It is precisely that as a human being you ensure that the conditions are such that that nature has the space to exist. In my view, that is the task which the concept of 'intrinsic value' gives us. I am sure that Mr Schaap and I will continue to cross swords on a regular basis. I'd really like that. I spoke about active species protection in Article 1.12. We welcome the inclusion of this in the legislative proposal. We are also pleased with the introduction of the "programme" instrument in Article 1.13 in the legislative proposal. A general administrative measure may provide for the adoption of a programme aimed at improving the conservation objectives of areas or species, including with a view to achieving balanced sustainable economic development. This will, for example, enable the active species protection of meadow birds to be achieved. This is positive. However, my group has a pressing question as to whether the cabinet is actually going to use this instrument, which is a national programme, for example, to actively protect and restore grazing bird populations, as requested by the House of Representatives through the Grashoff/Leenders motion. We are not yet reassured, because we have read the letter on grazing bird policy which the Secretary of State sent to the House of Representatives on 30 November. In particular, we read that he is talking about a plan of action, but nothing about a programmatic approach and use of the programme, which regulates much more targeted objectives, measures and funding and really regulates the achievement of results. That really is a difference from what the Secretary of State has written. We think that the Secretary of State, given the poor results so far of the agricultural nature management, is too easy to believe that it will be okay if we do it with the agricultural collectives. We believe that it is precisely the use of such a national programme that is crucial to re-launch the grazing bird populations. Is that what the Secretary of State's gonna do? Is he willing to do that? Another positive point is that the House of Representatives has ensured that the protection of landscapes, including by the provinces, has been given a place in the bill. Unfortunately, there is no obligation to do so. Provinces can or can't do it. We find that very non-binding. We ask the Cabinet to take a critical look at this and monitor the extent to which valuable landscapes in the Netherlands are and will remain sufficiently protected, and, if necessary, take additional measures when important landscape values are at risk of being lost. Is the cabinet prepared to do this? There are also points in this bill that we are critical of. First of all, there is a lack of strong control by the Empire, now that nature policy is largely decentralised. That is not a new input from my group. We also introduced this in the debate on decentralisation legislation and in our written input. We do not see how the Empire can fulfil its system responsibility towards nature in the Netherlands without, for example, the instrument of designation. How can the Netherlands fulfil its accountability in Europe, where it has not been able to intervene itself, and also intervene in good time, when it is clear that results required for the Birds and Habitats Directives, for example, will not be achieved by the provinces? The cabinet would point to the use of the Province Act, but the Secretary of State knows as well as I do that it is rarely used. A province must make it terribly furious before the Empire intervenes. How does the Secretary of State see that for himself and how will he fulfil the obligation to achieve results that rest on his shoulders, for example, vis-à-vis Europe? A supplement to this is the report of the Van Vollenhoven Committee which recently appeared. We feel strongly in this concern, because this committee writes that it has the impression that the Empire, with the new legislative system and the underlying philosophy of the law, seems to give over the direction on nature of national interest. That is why the Van Vollenhoven Committee advocates Rijksnatuurmonumenten, which designates the Empire, where the Empire proposes the frameworks and makes sufficient resources available. Implementation and management remain the responsibility of the provinces, but according to this committee the Empire must play a much stronger directing role in nature of national interest. This committee therefore calls on the Empire to use Article 2.11 in the bill, which allows the Minister to designate special national nature reserves. The Committee talks about nature of national importance, which includes all 231 National Natural Monuments, including 163 Natura 2000 sites. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take this firm direction and actively use Article 2.11 to designate special national nature areas? The Van Vollenhoven Committee also says that the protected natural monuments should be preserved as Rijksnatuurmonumenten. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this? These protected natural monuments are deleted in this bill. The cabinet says that this is not so bad because they are all covered by the Nature Network or Natura 2000, but it does not include 5%. What's gonna happen to that? Another problem is that these protected natural monuments were often protected because they had important landscape or cultural historical values. They are precisely not so tightly defined and strictly protected under, for example, Natura 2000. How is the Secretary of State gonna close this hole that does fall? Will he follow the Van Vollenhoven Committee in this? In this bill, the Secretary of State regulates a Nature Network, but it doesn't get any hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u18	Basically, you say that the Empire must take much more policy initiative, but also an almost integral responsibility for all very beautiful natural objects and monuments. In fact, you said that the implementation could be in the province. Does this mean that you reject decentralisation, so shifting a large bulk of policy to the provinces, and that you want a renationalisation of nature policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u19	My group is not happy with the way in which decentralisation has taken shape. We voted against it at the time, also because there was a huge cut in the budget. We advocate that the Empire does indeed have a directing role in the matter of nature of national interest, which at least fills in by, for example, providing a power of direction that makes it possible to intervene if things go wrong. Honestly, I find that interesting. I would like to follow the Van Vollenhoven Committee by asking for a clearer definition of what this nature is of national importance and therefore to take a stronger role in this whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u20	I myself argued that the Empire should be careful with cross-border elements, so that the provinces do not withdraw within the borders. So my approach was more that the Empire should keep an eye on the whole and that it should do something with it in the provinces, but that the policy should remain calm with the provinces. I am clearly listening to your desire to bring it back to the Empire and that the provinces do not have a directing role, but are more of an intermediate station for the ultimate management and implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u21	In any case, I would argue that the responsibility for nature of national interest should be adequately borne by the Empire. How that takes shape is another question. You are right that decentralisation is a fact and that is the political reality. However, I would like to look at how the Empire can ensure that it has greater possibilities to ensure that the nature of national interest is adequately protected and preserved. By the way, I do support you where you say that this cross-border nature deserves special attention. I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u22	Nor are we very much in favour of decentralisation of policy. You can talk about the execution and supervision. What will this mean in practice? GroenLinks is also in a number of provinces on the board. All the provinces will soon come up with a nature vision. Are you saying that, even in the provinces where you're on the board, you're not gonna put an extra head on what the Empire now prescribes? Or are you saying that I now have the freedom to formulate extra policies on a decentralised basis, so I'm going to give it to you anyway? After all, that's a little bit out of line with the story you're holding out on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u23	No, I don't think so. What we stand for is, in any case, that where nature of national importance is concerned, in fact, we know what that is, because we have all defined it, the Empire ensures that that nature is protected and preserved. I invite the cabinet to take a strong role in mind with the Van Vollenhoven report. Exactly how to do that is a question. However, I think it is important. That, of course, leaves provinces completely free to protect them, where they believe there is important nature which does not fall within the national interest, but which they consider to be of great importance. This can be about special landscapes, for example. You will understand that GroenLinks is only very much in favour of this. As far as we are concerned, much more can be invested, including financially, in nature in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u24	So you do not underline the policy. You are actually saying that you want the Empire to do something, but that you still have the freedom in the province to do something in certain areas. So you are not really opposed to this decentralisation. I am also very enthusiastic about Mr Van Vollenhoven's proposal. However, my perception of that proposal is that you are pointing out a number of larger areas and stopping with all those smaller areas, say the noise in the margin: all the different species and types that we are now dealing with, which are now designated and designated. My perception of Van Vollenhoven's report is a bit of a taste and I want to know from you whether it is a different one from yours. As I understand it, in addition to the larger areas of Van Vollenhoven, if I may call them that, you still want to continue with all kinds of micro-nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u25	That is what Mr Van Vollenhoven wants, by the way. He says in his report that he wants national monuments, provincial natural monuments and municipal natural monuments. I would indeed like to say that where there is valuable nature, we must try to protect and preserve it. In any case, this is an important objective for GroenLinks in her political stance. Mr. President, I must go on. I would like to tell the Secretary of State that although the nature network is mentioned in the law, it does not get any hands and feet. There are no powerful instruments for the creation, conservation and protection of the nature network in the law. The Natura 2000 sites, which constitute only half of the nature network, are strictly protected by the Birds and Habitats Directives. For the other half of the nature network, in fact, only the spatial rail system is the protection regime and the decision on general land-use planning rules, the Barro, as is already the case. We find it strange that not all areas of the nature network have simply been brought under the unambiguous protection regime of this law. Why is it that, in addition to this law, there is still a separate spatial railway, the Barro, which then has to protect the non-Natura 2000 areas? Frankly, we do not think that this is appropriate to the line of the cabinet, which says that it wants to have a clear, transparent and transparent protection system for nature in the Netherlands. It makes it really unclear and opaque in this way. In our view, this means that part of nature is subject to a weaker protection regime than we consider desirable. For example, we see the problem that active nature conservation and the active conservation of species will not be enough for the areas and species not covered by Natura 2000. What will provinces and municipalities do in this respect? A problem with nature work is also that there is no external effect, as is the case with Natura 2000. There is provision that when you want to go around Natura 2000 sites things that intervene on the favourable state of conservation of the species are not allowed to happen. This should only be done if you ensure that this favourable state of conservation is guaranteed and there is an absolute social necessity, there is no alternative; if there is compensation when there is really no other way. This is strictly regulated, but not for nature networks. The question is why this is not covered by this law for that entire nature network, Natura 2000 or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u26	Let me give you an example from practice. At Vianen, with us in the province, you have the ehs, now called NNN (Nature Network Netherlands). So that doesn't affect the environment. It doesn't matter. Now they want to set up windmills in the municipality of Vianen. Does what you just said mean that if you get the choice now, the operation should extend to the surroundings of those NNN areas? Are you actually saying that no windmills can be installed in areas around the NNN? Coincidentally, there are a lot of redbirds in that area, and they go into all those windmills. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u27	It's a creative find from the colleague. Of course, when setting up windmills you always have to look at the effects that that has on the environment and on nature. If there is exactly a path where many birds swarm, you should see if that is the right place. However, it seems to me that this is not always the case. I do not know this specific case. Whatever you do, you have to take that into account. Mr President, I see that I need to speed up. We have a number of critical questions to the cabinet about species protection. Forbidden acts are only punishable by intent. Fortunately, this is conditional, because there is European case law. I would also like to hear confirmation from the Secretary of State. This undermines enforcement. It's getting harder now. However, enforcement is not very good, as I said. We are concerned about whether enforcement is being strengthened and whether the grounds on which exemptions can be granted or prohibited are being lifted are clarified and strengthened. I would like to hear an answer from the government. It should not be the case that, in future, provinces will grant exemptions or exemptions to municipalities very easily, for example because species cause nuisance in the built-up area. There must at least be very sharp and clear criteria for when you can or cannot do that. How is the cabinet going to prevent European protection rules from being violated in this way? We find it extremely regrettable that many marine fish that are still protected under the Flora and fauna law will no longer be covered by this law. We can see that the protection of marine fish is becoming less than has been the case so far. We would like the Secretary of State to evaluate this legislation and the effects on marine fish no longer covered by the Nature Protection Act and to inform the Chamber of the impact on and development of these populations. Good monitoring is crucial to monitor how species develop and to see in time whether a species is declining or threatened. We strongly advocate that the monitoring is qualitatively clear and unambiguous, so that good reporting from the provinces that are comparable. SOVON warned us about this in the hearing. There are concerns that other methods of counting, other measurement methods and other monitoring methods are being used around hunting. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that we need clear and objective counting and measuring methods and that this should lead to a database that is open to everyone and free of charge? We believe that this is important for the maintenance and participation of people in nature in the Netherlands. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? I have a few comments to make on the hunt. We are extremely disappointed that, through an amendment by VVD and PvdA, strict regulations have been taken out of the original law by the House of Representatives, which, in fact, required all hunting plans in advance, which demonstrate the need for hunting. We very much regret that. We do not understand why coalition partner PvdA, who had the courage to be on her electoral programme and who constantly, through Secretary of State Dijksma, said that she was going to ban pleasure hunting, has agreed to this. Now there are only reports afterwards and the pleasure hunt, which was made impossible in the original bill, is in fact just possible again. We very much regret that, too, as well as the fact that the wild list has not been deleted. There remain quite huntable species. Fortunately, in the composition of the fauna management units, animal and nature conservation organisations are now also given a place, but not yet the proportionate place and the strong voice that we need. Is the Secretary of State prepared to at least make the composition of the fauna management units proportionate? I'll come to a conclusion. We believe that many opportunities have been missed, opportunities to end the yacht, opportunities for better protection of areas and species. The big question for us is: is it getting worse or better with this law? Much depends on the answer given by the Secretary of State. For us, a few commitments are crucial. We believe that active protection should be given real hands and feet by the Empire implementing the programmatic approach and actively shaping it. Is the Cabinet prepared to do this and can it explain how it is going to implement this active species protection? As I said, a law will remain without proper implementation, but certainly without proper enforcement. Is the Secretary of State prepared to step up enforcement so that there is sufficient capacity to really enforce this nature law properly and intensively? Is the Secretary of State prepared to take his system responsibility and, if necessary, make additional financial resources available for that purpose? Does he want to show us through monitoring what the effects of this new enforcement are? Hunting is a pain. We really hope that the Secretary of State will come forward with a number of commitments. Finally, good and unambiguous monitoring is an important issue for us. We are anxiously waiting for the Secretary of State's answer to enable us to make our final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I've been very flexible. You've noticed. I just wanted to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. This bill has a long history and perhaps a long future, although not all Members of our Chamber are happy about it. My group welcomes the fact that many points from the initiative paper Beautiful Netherlands from PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks have been included in the legislative proposal a number of years ago. It is interesting that the recognition of this afternoon's much discussed intrinsic value of nature as a core of the Nature Protection Act has been included. In replying to questions put by members of this Chamber, the Secretary of State clearly distinguished that intrinsic value from the different uses of nature, without forgetting that it is ultimately man who determines the nature and degree of intrinsic value. We see nature as a value in itself, and we would like to express our appreciation of nature where and when it is necessary, and this is increasingly necessary, in terms of protection. During the debate in the House of Representatives, the proposal was frequently amended in many areas. This has led to a number of improvements. I am thinking of the widely supported amendment which reflects the independent importance of the protection of landscapes. It's been memorized this afternoon. Provinces can protect unique landscape values, such as those realized in cultural history, beauty and experience, even if they do not necessarily coincide with natural values, better by designating a particularly provincial landscape. I hope that the Secretary of State will undertake to promote that the provinces also take into account the quality of the horizon of a special landscape. We now know that the quality of a landscape can be very determined. This is evident from the intense discussions over recent years on the visibility of wind farms at sea. My group has a number of questions which I would like to put to the Secretary of State. Some of these questions have been addressed in the written answer, but not all of our concerns have been removed. For example, we asked about the transfer of responsibility for supervision and enforcement from the provinces to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u30	Let's go back. I had to take a walk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u31	That's very healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u32	Yeah, that's very healthy. I'll come back to the windmills. Of course there are not only problems with windmills at sea, but perhaps much more with the mutilation of our landscape by those windmills on land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u33	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u34	I know D66 as a big supporter of those windmills. How is that compatible with the attention that Mr Schnabel is asking for for our landscape?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u35	I've given it as an example...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u36	I would like the debate to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u37	I have given it as an example of how a visibility element can play a role in the social debate. This is completely unrelated to the question of whether or not wind farms should be at sea and whether or not windmills in the country should be there. Each time you notice that not the nature that takes place on the ground is the crucial point, but that the discussion is about the image that arises in the eyes of the people of what nature is and represents. This is totally unrelated to the extent to which windmills are desirable or not desirable. That plays on land, of course, as well as at sea. I think windmills at sea are a good example, because it is not about the landscape with a differentiated image but about view, over horizon. We are also talking about horizon pollution. Such concepts have been introduced in the social discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u38	Can I then ask Mr Schnabel to give a weighting to that? He recognizes the problem. At some point the choice has to be made: do we opt for a beautiful landscape view? We have read in a report from Utrecht University that one of the most important things that disturbs people is the ruined view of the environment and of nature. I would therefore like Mr Schnabel to make a weighting. Does he think it's important that we get wind on land or does he think the landscape is important?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u39	Through the chairman, I say that is not my theme at the moment. My theme is to say: these are the things that need to be taken into account in the assessment of plans. I ask the Secretary of State, if the provinces are to be given a responsibility in this area, to promote these plans on the broad lines, without merely looking at what it means "on the ground." It is also necessary to look at the social image that is emerging. That is not at all a statement on the desirability or desirability of windmills at any given time. The municipalities have indicated that not all of them have yet been sufficiently equipped for the monitoring and enforcement of the nature aspect of the environmental authorisation. This concern was also raised at the expert meeting a few weeks ago. The then Secretary of State Dijksma wanted to show understanding of the concerns expressed by the municipalities and indicated that provinces, municipalities and the Empire investigated practical solutions to support municipalities in carrying out this new task. Can the Secretary of State report any progress or developments on this section? This is very important in the light of what the law is going to mean. I would also like to draw attention once again to the division of powers between the provinces and the Empire. This point has already been raised on the other side and during the written procedure. It is precisely through decentralisation and the shift in the supervisory and enforcement role that it is very important that there is and remains sufficient attention for the fulfilment of international and European legal obligations. Part of this must be done by the twelve provinces, separately and jointly. To what extent does the IPO's recently published progress report "Nature in the Province" in the opinion of the Secretary of State meet the requirements that could be imposed under the Nature Protection Act? Nature reserves, landscapes and rivers rarely coincide with the borders of municipalities and provinces and animals literally do not care at all. Good cooperation between provinces and between provinces and the Empire is therefore essential. The Netherlands has committed itself as a country to achieving certain nature objectives. Our provinces have an obligation to perform their tasks, while the Empire is the system responsible. The Empire can intervene on the basis of the Province Law if a province does not act in accordance with the legal frameworks. Those reactive powers, which are mainly aimed at the destruction of decisions, and also the recovery of possible fines in the event of non-compliance, are indeed intended for exceptional situations. Is that the best or only way to exercise system responsibility, I ask the Secretary of State. I would like to get a reaction to that, in view of the future of the relationship between the Empire and provinces. For let's face it: if these serious interventions are already being carried out, the chances are very high that the loss has already been suffered. The Environment Act, which will eventually deal with this bill, contains possibilities for the Empire to draw up instructional rules. Has the government considered including this system in this bill? Please provide a further explanation from the Secretary of State. What agreements has the Secretary of State made or is he going to make with the provinces, and with the municipalities again, to ensure that all the rural and thus the provinces and certainly municipalities transcending nature objectives are met? After all, the Empire continues to deal with matters of national and therefore provincial importance, the then Secretary of State Dijksma stressed. This brings me to the next issue I would like to raise, namely evaluation and monitoring. In fact, an overarching theme. The effectiveness of all the measures contained in this legislative proposal can, of course, be demonstrated only after its implementation. My group, Mr Dijksma, has been able to hear this in similar terms in the House of Representatives, and it attaches great importance to a very thorough evaluation. To our written questions on the evaluation of this proposal in the context of the proposed transition to the Environmental Act, Secretary of State Dijksma replied that she considers an evaluation to be important, but that it should be useful. It is difficult to disagree with that. The idea is, of course, that the transition to the Environment Act should go hand in hand with a further improvement in the protection of nature. In this respect, can we count on the design and questioning of the evaluation to show that not only the past, but also whether the law offers the possibility of taking a step forward? The creation of an evaluation and the formulation of the questions give room for further impetus. The Secretary of State indicated that the Supplementary Act Nature, the amendments to the AMvBs on the basis of the Environmental Act will be more substantive than the Supplementary Act Nature, which will rather have a technical character. The government's intention is to include the content of the nature protection bill as much as possible unchanged in the AMvBs on the basis of the Environment Act. The consultation will not take place for another year or two. The practical experience will be central to this, says the Secretary of State. That sounds good in principle, because, of course, that is what this is all about in practice. But does the Secretary of State also have a more crystallized picture of what elements he would like to involve in the evaluation of the Nature Protection Act? Is the government's intention to carry out an assessment in broad terms, to read as a follow-up to an "all-encompassing monitoring system"? How does the evaluation and monitoring relate to the reports of the Planning Office for the Environment referred to in Article 1 (9) (1) and (2) respectively? And, in this way, I would like to ask the Secretary of State: in addition to the Nature Supplementary Act, can we also see the Nature Supplementary Decision in this Chamber? Then there is an understatement: few people will have missed the fact that the proposal for a law on the protection of nature also contains rules on hunting. Where hunting plays an important role in the protection of nature, it is a contradiction in terms for the other to call hunting and protection in one breath. As regards the objectives of nature protection in general, where there is broad agreement and disagreement is often seen as a source of concern in practice, there is a real and fundamental contradiction between those who accept exploitation and pleasure and those for whom it is impossible to do so. In the 2013 Initiative Note Mooi Nederland, PvdA, D66 and GroenLinks speak out of wanting to see hunting exclusively as a professional activity in the service of damage control and sustainable population management. In that perspective, there is no room for freely huntable species, not even for the five currently mentioned in Article 3 (20) of the proposal for a law. The D66 Group has serious problems with the whole idea of free hunting of animals and indeed regrets that there is still room for this in a law called 'Nature Protection'. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to take into account, in the evaluation of the Nature Protection Act, the growing disgust in society of killing animals without need. The D66 Group would welcome the withdrawal of the articles relating to species that are free to hunt in the transition from the Nature Protection Act to the Environment Act. I hope the Secretary of State can make a commitment on this. Apart from the choice of principle...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u40	Do you monitor your speaking time? You've only given up ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u41	Oh, my gosh. Could you be a little more generous?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u42	Up to a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u43	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u44	Mr Schnabel has just commented on the note Mooi Nederland, in which D66, GroenLinks and the Labour Party write that we have to get rid of pleasure hunting. The cabinet actually went along with that: the Secretary of State initially said that the cabinet wanted to get rid of it. In one way or another, an amendment has given rise to a diametrical view. Does Mr Schnabel think that the law can still be judged as a unity? In fact, a fremdkörper has entered the law, which has nothing to do with nature conservation, but it has to do with exploitation or the killing of animals for pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u45	In my story, I have already said that the contradiction in it is felt very strongly by a number of people, including in society. The public debate on this issue is developing. Mr Koffeman's party is also the expression of this. What we are proposing now is actually an attempt to give room for this discussion in the years to come. In fact, we say: we have to take this into account and this is the direction in which the social debate is moving. I don't think there's much difference of opinion on that. You could say that the time may not yet be quite right. This is evident from the examination of the bill in the House of Representatives and the fact that no conclusion has been reached which is entirely in line with Mr Koffeman's view on this matter. You could say it takes time anyway. That is why we are proposing that we think in this direction, without having any major consequences at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u46	However, if you wait until the Environment Act, that actually means that hunters will get carte blanche until then. Two weeks ago, we adopted the Hoekstra motion in this house. By means of this motion, we have said that we want to be able to make an independent assessment of each legislative proposal. On this subject, however, it is two such contradictory principles that this could also apply to this issue. Is it Mr Schnabel's preference and would he consider it desirable to be able to assess these two matters separately, namely the protection of nature and the killing of animals for pleasure, in order to reach a balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u47	I feel that at the moment this is the position that I can present to Mr Koffeman from my group. We want to take account of the time perspective, with an image of the direction in which we are thinking. That direction was actually already fixed in the past. That doesn't mean that this should be the choice now. There is now a broad legislative proposal, with many elements in it. This is a fragment in it. That's how we're being offered. This is the way I'm responding to that right now. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the fauna management plan. It is argued that this needs to be supported by trend counts, so that it can provide insight into the development of populations. There is a discussion about professionalising these censuses to prevent different approaches from being taken by nature conservationists on the one hand and hunters on the other. We believe that all parties to the agreement would benefit nature in this case too from more standardised censuses. In this way we can also get a better view of what is really going on in this respect. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to standardize and professionalise these counts? Finally, on this point, we think it is right that it should now be regulated by law that other civil society organisations and scientists can also be invited by the management of the fauna management units to have their say. That should also be properly evaluated. The experts' meeting showed that. The different parties felt very different views about the weight of this input. In this respect, it is important for the Secretary of State to promote that the fauna management units have an independent chairman. The law does not regulate this, but I would like the Secretary of State to consider asking the provinces to promote the preference of electing presidents who are not themselves hunters and who are also independent in this sense. I will conclude with a somewhat technical remark. The bill abolishes the area category of protected natural monuments. The Secretary of State has noted that a separate regime for the protected natural monuments is not necessary because these areas are or can be adequately protected by the use of other instruments. However, does the Secretary of State not agree with us that, in the present situation, the present natural monuments will benefit from a transitional arrangement as provided for in the Erfgoedwet for monuments, until the provinces have or have not designated the natural monuments as a special provincial nature reserve? On this point, I hope that the Secretary of State will say yes. We'd like to look forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u48	Can I ask everyone to take account of the timetable when giving up the times they want to speak? Mrs Vos spoke four minutes longer and Mr Schnabel spoke four and a half minutes longer. That then becomes a bit tricky and the planning gets out of hand. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u49	I call Mr Verheijen. It's gonna be his maiden speech, and I'm gonna ring the bell again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u50	Madam President. It's an honor to have my maiden speech at this debate. I would like to congratulate my colleague Van Kesteren on his maiden speech and the Secretary of State for his appointment. I wish them all success. The parliamentary treatment of the various laws designed to protect our nature, our natural environment and our earth have a rich and versatile history. At present, another chapter is being added, in Paris, the content of which we do not yet know. However, we hope that this will strengthen the chances of a sustainable future for future generations. A third phase of the environment is taking place. It is 25 years since Minister Braks presented his Nature Policy Plan, in which the basis for the Dutch Nature Network, the main ecological structure, was presented. It was part of an offensive to improve environmental and nature objectives in the Netherlands and thus also an implementation of the ideas of the Brundtland report "Our common future" published in 1987. That was during the second wave of the environment. A generation ago, the main thrust of this United Nations report was to express in an excellent way the concerns, the 'Care for Tomorrow', about the degradation of our environment and the natural environment on a global scale. We find elements of this in the various government notes that appeared around 1990, such as the NMP, the third Note Water and the fourth Note Spatial Planning. I would also like to mention the names of the ministers involved: Winsemius, Nijpels, Smit-Kroes and Alders. There was a real awareness, both social and administrative, and an active approach to the various environmental issues. Many of the policies formulated were implemented in the following years. Sometimes it was sectoral and sometimes it was in regional processes. Progress has been made in each of these areas. The quality of our living environment has certainly improved since then. But there was also setback and stagnation and undesirable decline. Given the moderate and unfavourable state of many nature goals in the Netherlands, there is a major challenge here that requires continuous commitment of society and politics. In 1990 we probably thought that this would be a "finite" task: 25 years to put it in order. Now we realize better that it has no finiteness, given the growth of the world's population. Stock management and sustainable exploitation of our resources remain necessary. Fortunately, we have come to appreciate better the contribution that nature makes to social prosperity and well-being. New milestones for nature policy focus on 2027 to comply with the European Directives on the conservation and restoration of Natura 2000 sites and the Water Framework Directive. This bill explicitly reflects this struggle: on the one hand, the law codifies three different existing regulatory frameworks: Boswet, Flora- en Faunawet and the Nb-wet. On the other hand, the Act supports the active restoration and development declaration of the nature network by, inter alia, the provinces to establish and implement management plans for Natura 2000 sites. The Programmatic Approach Nitrogen connects and directs the deployment of multiple parties at regional level and this area approach also supports the philosophy and implementation principles of the new Environment Act. With regard to the incorporation of this law into the Environment Act, the government announced that it would bring a Supplementary Decision Nature into proceedings in 2017, which could therefore take into account the initial experience of the implementation. Discussions about nature management sometimes have a double bottom. The value we attach to our environment is, in principle, topical and subjective; it is based on political, global and social values. At the same time, it's about the relationship between ourselves, homo sapiens, and our environment. Existence and ecology go together here and make us mutually dependent. The PvdA appreciates the significance nature has for us for the future of future generations, because nature has production and restoration functions, circular principles that we can use in building a circular economy. It is not only the use value of nature that is worth protecting, that also applies to the value of nature in itself, as part of the common heritage of humanity. We recognise nature as part of our biological and historical heritage and therefore protect its vulnerable parts: species, landscapes, habitats. The Labour Party therefore supports the idea of the intrinsic meaning of nature, such as the present bill. I assume that if one should not be interrupted in a maiden speech, one should not go into the contributions of the previous speakers either. Otherwise, on this point, I would like to agree with Mr Schaap in his approach...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u51	There's no rule about that, so you can go ahead. As long as you stay in time. Of course, that's a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u52	So I would like to give Mr Schaap the same knowledge theory as regards his view on the granting of value to nature. On the other hand, I have supported with some elements why nature also has its own value, as a biological and historical heritage and property of humanity and therefore as part of ourselves, of the entire earth. In it we also recognize views about the stewardship, which we cherish, with regard to the views of rulership, being the ruler of the earth. We in the Labour Party therefore recognize ourselves more in the view of stewardship than in the view of rulership. Legal protection is enshrined in numerous international conventions, which were signed by the Netherlands mainly after the Second World War: from the Whale Convention 1946, after the first environmental wave of the 1960s leading to Ramsar 1971, Stockholm and Paris 1972, Washington 1973, Bonn and Bern 1979, until the 1992 UN Biodiversity Convention. The European Birds and Habitats Directive has subsequently become a framework for the Dutch protection policy: recognition of the intrinsic significance of nature, which also limits people's actions and thus economic strife. At the same time, this law and the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen convey the message that, when things are going well with nature, there is more room for economic activity. This optimistic approach was also the foundation for the Mooi Nederland manifesto, which in 2012 gave an impetus to a balanced approach to nature and economy in the coalition agreement. We find them in the present legislative proposal. It also regulates the necessary division of responsibility within the framework of the government agreement and the Nature Pact with the provinces. We therefore agree with the statement that the adoption must be speeded up. The commitment of the provinces does not relieve the Empire of the responsibility of European commitments. This has become clear following the advice of the Council of State and the examination in the Lower House. In our view, this calls for particular attention to be paid to the governance of management and the different responsibilities. In the explanatory memorandum and the further report, the government has clarified many of the various questions raised regarding the monitoring, the formation of the fauna management units, and the steering power of the fauna management plan on hunting. In this context, we have further questions to the Secretary of State. In 2016, an evaluation is on the agenda of the substantive and financial situation of the implementation of the governance agreement and the nature pact agreements with the provinces. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he wishes to inform the two Chambers of this evaluation? In the reply of 24 November, the State Secretary suggests that the programmatic approach to active species protection is no longer a state responsibility, but a responsibility of the provinces. In the evaluation of the IPO, A year of nature pact in progress, we did not come across the subject as an independent item. In view of international obligations, this requires due attention. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? In the hearing on 26 October, this issue was not settled to the satisfaction of the IPO and experts argued that it would be a weakly formulated part of the law. Can the government understand the efforts made by each province individually and jointly by the provinces in relation to the species policy aspect? Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider in the above evaluation whether the habitat approach is adequately implemented by the different provinces, in particular for species with poor conservation status? The composition of the fauna management units can be regulated by the provinces. As a Party of Labour, we attach great importance to a wide-ranging administration, in which regional and social interests can be integrated for the benefit of a well-behaved fauna management. On the one hand, we recognise the importance of regional differentiation. On the other hand, organisations that operate nationally, such as KNJV, Animal Protection and Fauna Protection, are also expected to appeal to the joint provinces and the Empire for accessibility in regional administrations. We can imagine that a slight national agreement between the parties can help in the implementation of the law. How does the Secretary of State view this point and is he prepared to promote such an agreement? Finally. The granting of permits by municipalities remains an unclear part of the implementation of this law, while the government has not yet reached agreement with the VNG on implementation costs. What does the Secretary of State base his optimistic expectation on, in the light of this weekend's letter from the UNG regarding the final result? Does this mean that, in the absence of an agreement, authorisation procedures will stagnate at the start of this law? We look forward with interest to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u53	Mr Verheijen, congratulations on your maiden speech. "Water knows no limits," you once said in an interview with Het Financieele Dagblad, but that also applies to your commitment to preserve the water. For more than twenty years, you have worked endlessly in various functions for better cooperation between agriculture and nature conservation. Yet you once started in a completely different corner. You studied theoretical sociology and social history at the Catholic University of Brabant in Tilburg. After that, you worked as a teacher of sociology and organisation in Breda and Eindhoven for more than ten years. In 1991 you started working as an organizational advisor at Bouman & Company in Den Bosch. However, this employment was of short duration, because as early as 1992 you were appointed a member of the Deputy States of North Brabant. For this position, you brought in a lot of experience, since you had been a member of the Provincial States for 16 years. As a deputy, you were in charge of the files environment, water, clues, nature and landscape. It is not an easy task, because the already fragile sandy soils of the province of Brabant were at that time heavily burdened by agriculture, industry and the ever-increasing population. In those years, you launched a plan to make the environment an integral part of regional planning in the province. You also advocated a completely different approach to the manure surplus. Individual farmers themselves had to be made responsible for the manure surplus on their farms. To reduce manure emissions as a whole, you created an important covenant between province, municipalities and agricultural organisations. For your work as a deputy, you have received the highest Brabant provincial award and honorary citizenship of Brabant. It was therefore not surprising that in 2005 when a dike count was appointed for the watership Aa and Maas, the choice was yours. In recent years, you have also led various committees that have examined public policy. In 2013, the opinion of the Committee on the Environmental Impact Assessment, which you chaired, led the Minister to decide not only to examine underground conditions but also above ground for test drilling into shale gas. In your opinion, water and prosperity are inextricably linked. Good water management therefore deserves our full attention. You are firmly convinced of the importance and significance of our waterboards and you have fought against plans to abolish them. I agree with you, by the way. I can't say that at all, but I do. With your well-known good-laughter drive in Brabant, you have begun your work for the First Chamber. I wish you every success in the future, and I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues and myself to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u54	Mr. Chairman. I'll get right on it, because I understand we're behind. First of all, I congratulate Mr Van Kesteren and Mr Verheijen on their maiden speech. I would also like to congratulate our new Secretary of State, who is going to be able to manage this beautiful portfolio. It is, of course, a very good starting point that the aim of the Nature Protection Bill is to bring things together and to make them clear. Even more beautiful it would have been if the goal, and also the functioning of the new law, had been that nature really benefited and improved in quality. The Group of the Party of European Socialists is not satisfied with that. The Council of State noted for a reason: "It is important that nature conservation has not been so effective in recent decades that nature in the Netherlands is currently in a favourable state and the conservation of species and habitats is ensured." It adds: "If policies are unchanged, it is the question of whether the Netherlands will meet the international and European objectives in the future." That's a big deal. Can the Secretary of State explain why he has not taken the opportunity to make a quality mark? Provinces and municipalities are responsible for the protection of nature. It's written down nicely: each one makes a plan. But, yeah, if you wipe all those plans out, you obviously don't have a national policy yet. In fact, I suspect that the fragmentation can get in our way. Of course, animals do not care about administrative boundaries. For example, they forage in Friesland, breed in Drenthe and then travel through North and South Holland and Zeeland to the sunny South. Surely it would be too crazy if they were treated differently in different provinces? My group fears that this will cause problems, because there are no clear national frameworks to ensure that policy between provinces is properly coordinated and that the quality of policy is guaranteed. There is also a lack of monitoring of the goals described in the national vision. Of course, there are also questions about implementation. The aim of the Nature Protection Bill is to simplify, but effective simplification requires proper implementation. Did the Secretary of State secure these? This is yet another decentralisation. You may, of course, ask yourself whether you should do this to the local authorities. More and more is being thrown over the fence, but can we assume that they can handle these tasks as well? The seventh progress report of the Great Project Ecological Main Structure shows that for the first time since we had nature policy, there is less nature. The area of nature has shrunk with 1,384 hectares. Do the provinces have sufficient financial resources to carry out their tasks properly? This decentralisation, too, is accompanied by less financial resources, and one can expect that there will be transition costs. Of course, it sounds good to expect less costs to be incurred due to the reduction of the burden, but does this outweigh the also expected increase in supervisory and enforcement costs? Is there sufficient "green in the field" to ensure adequate enforcement? Can the Secretary of State assure us that there will be sufficient supervision and enforcement? He can...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u55	Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u56	You should have let Mrs Meijer finish her sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u57	The sentence was finished on my paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u58	Yeah? Okay. Then we have a different interpretation of that. Mrs. Meijer says there's been less nature. I'm wondering what's going on here. In recent years, billions have been spent with the ehs on what I sometimes call "the drawing table nature": all kinds of areas that have been purchased. I do not know how many hectares have been purchased, but at provincial level I think tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of square meters of land have been purchased. Farms were bought up at the beginning of the ehs to realize nature. How can Mrs Meijer say that there is less nature? And what the hell did that money go into?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u59	Perhaps you should ask that in the big project ehs, because it is stated in the progress report. That's where I read it. I can't help the fact that there's 1,384 hectares less nature. Perhaps Mr Dercksen should ask others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u60	So let me put my question differently: what is Mrs Meijer's conclusion when she reads those numbers? When I read those numbers, I think something went wrong, because we spent billions to buy a lot of farmland and convert it to nature and nature development, but at the end of the day, in the ehs-progress report, we have less nature. Something doesn't go well. I try to interpret those numbers and think, "What went wrong?" I hope that is what my colleagues are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u61	I thank Mr... of course for his question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u62	Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u63	Yes, Dercksen. Sorry. I'm bad with names today. I'm really sorry. I thank Mr Dercksen for his question. I would like us to have a well-integrated nature policy. As far as I am concerned, national policy would be a very good idea, because I said in my speech: if we shred it and, in addition, let it go hand in hand with less finances, it will probably not get any better. In the various reports I see that we have fewer hectares of nature and that the expectation is that we will not even meet European and other international objectives, let alone our own standards. Then I guess we might not be doing it the right way. So I would not say: let us pay less money or less attention to it. I'd just say let's do it right. That's the plea I'm trying to make here. I will continue with my speech, where I left off. Can the Secretary of State assure us that there will be sufficient supervision and enforcement? Can he also assure us that there will be no deterioration in quality? I would like to make this point very clear, because with this legislative proposal there are a number of protected areas which are not Natura 2000 sites and may no longer have protection. I am thinking here, for example, of Groesbeek Forest De Refter, the areas of Groesbeek Forest Ward and Vosbergen Buitenplaats. Mr Van Vollenhoven drew attention to these areas in his opinion. Mrs Vos just mentioned that in her contribution. Can the Secretary of State outline the future of these areas? Is there perhaps a transitional policy? Is what happens to the former protected natural monuments monitored? Of course I'd like to be kept informed of this. Or, perhaps even better: perhaps the Secretary of State is willing to follow Van Vollenhoven's advice to maintain these national monuments, which were designated by previous laws and regulations, and to pool them in national parks. Here too, there is a good implementation of the law with the expertise of the local authorities. How is the presence of this expertise ensured? Governments must assess independently whether or not a plan or project can proceed. How is it ensured that they can assess this expertly? The Nature Protection Act takes European legislation as its starting point. According to the Cabinet, European legislation ensures a high level of protection, higher than that provided by national legislation for the establishment of European frameworks. Thus, the national headline goes off, unless specific protection is not provided for in European legislation. However, I would like to know from the Secretary of State what prevents us from showing more ambition. That should be possible at national level, shouldn't it? The Bird and Habitats Directive is currently subject to the Regulate... I knew I would break my tongue on this! To the European Commission's Regulatory Fitness and Performance Programme check. The SP Group fears that this review will reduce the level of protection, as this will reduce the administrative burden. Does the Secretary of State share these concerns? Is he going to make an effort in Brussels not to let this happen? European and international nature conservation directives are the basis for nature conservation, which is important for all Member States. But this creates the lowest common denominator. In order to achieve biodiversity targets, it is absolutely necessary to do more than that, and countries should therefore be able to do so at national level. Without additional national protection ambitions, international mandatory nature goals cannot be realised and maintained sustainably. I would like to see the Secretary of State comment on this in detail. My next point is the fauna management plans, the fauna management units and, of course, hunting. Through the U-turn of the amendment of the VVD and the PvdA in the Lower House it has made the hunter a lot easier again. The PvdA has here removed a key point from its election program to please coalition partner VVD, while there was a large majority for stopping the pleasure hunt. So animals are the victims of a political deal that was completely unnecessary. I am glad that I do not have to explain that to my constituents or constituents! The provision of data in advance will now lapse, as this would entail too much administrative burden and burden. In my group's view, this raises a problem that is not at all there. After all, various groups of hunters do not in the last place do count. We can safely assume that we are pretty close to the truth when we conclude from those counts how many animals are running around in a particular area or flying around. Then you can also see if this is too much, too little or just enough, and what you should or should not do to achieve or maintain a reasonable wildlife. In short, the data is there or they can be gathered together. Now they need to be made public and controlled. That doesn't seem like a huge burden to me. However, prior approval was against ex post accountability. In principle, the SP would have liked to go along with this, because my group also attaches importance to trust and to taking responsibility. However, it must be plausible that those who answer will do so in good conscience. Now my group is not convinced of that. Fauna management units will mainly consist of hunters, who have to control themselves. If the hunter is allowed to determine how many animals live in an area, and how many are allowed to be shot, then they become the policeman, the prosecutor, the judge and the executioner. That's not supposed to happen, is it? In the many debates on the other side, it was discussed that at least two representatives of civil society organisations should be present in the fauna management units with a view to ensuring sustainable management of populations of wildlife in the region to which the area of activity of the fauna management unit belongs. That is the pubic, I repeat: the pubic, with which one thought to get away, for which the PvdA put the majority against the pleasure hunt overboard. If that proposal were to be considered now, it could perhaps still be defended. However, according to my group, it does not say anything about the final composition of these units, let alone that we can assume that these Members can actually have any influence. After all, an animal protector in the company of force majeure to hunters is of course not a balanced composition. For the time being, the Secretary of State has done nothing but say that the provinces are responsible for the composition of the fauna management units, but my group is not satisfied with that. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to the proposal put forward by my colleague Mr Smaling in the House of Representatives and to recommend it to the Secretary of State. The proposal foresees that the management units will consist of a third of stakeholders, a third of scientists and a third of site managers. It would make us feel better if the management units were more diverse in composition in this way. I'm considering tabling a motion on this, so I'll give the Secretary of State. But, of course, I hope he will want to respond to the feeling that this Chamber is still very wide. I very much invite him to explain to us why civil society organisations should join the FBEs at all, what they will get in the milk and what the animals will gain. I'll tell him in advance that he won't get away from me with pointers to the county. I'm gonna stick to the hunting and the supposed usefulness of it. Because it seems to my group as if it is a fact that there are no other ways to do something about damage and overpopulation. Instead of considering hunting as a last resort, it is now assumed that management hunting must be done. My group cannot escape the impression that management hunting becomes the new pleasure hunt if there is insufficient consideration of other ways of creating and maintaining a good wildlife population. For example, Professor Keulartz of Radboud University said in our expert meeting that hunting creates an imbalance. Hunting leads the animals to produce more offspring, which are then shot again, while rest causes the balance to return. Who am I to question his words? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he thinks about this and also whether he agrees with the SP that we should first look at animal-friendly ways of expelling before calling in the rifle. I am quite prepared to come up with proposals for this too. I come to the end of my speech. I'd like to give the Secretary of State one more thing. In 2008, this Chamber adopted my predecessor's motion "buffer zone." It states, among other things, that we are aiming for buffer zones around Natura 2000 areas where there is no intensification of agriculture and incentives for ecologically-based agriculture and local production. That was a fine motion, which passed well into this Chamber and then disappeared into the lower desk drawer. I think that this Secretary of State, who recently took over this portfolio, would do well to take this motion well and look creatively at a good execution. It would be nice for our fragile nature, which I said at the beginning of my speech, but the question is whether we are going to achieve our goals or even the minimum requirements. I will conclude with the conclusion of my group. We're not getting a warm sense of this bill yet. Hunting is a major objection and we believe that animals should not be handed over to two parties that have made it a political cow trade. If we are sure that the composition of the fauna management units will lead to proper management, we could agree to that. Another point is the protection of vulnerable areas. We must work towards an improvement and certainly not a deterioration. Furthermore, it is not yet clear whether local authorities are equipped with their task and can ensure that there is sufficient enforcement. Of course there are also questions about the money. In short, the SP considers it a missed opportunity to stop working on improving quality and is very disappointed in the political barter trade that affects the animals. But, of course, this Secretary of State, who inherited this file, deserves a chance. So we look forward with interest to his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u64	Mr. Chairman. The law before us has a long lead with... Oh, wait a minute. I interrupt to congratulate the two people who gave their maiden speech, namely Van Kesteren and Verheijen. I enjoyed their contributions. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State on behalf of my group. The law before us has a long lead, with a crucial interim adjustment under the influence of a cabinet change and with input from friendly groups in the Lower House, namely D66 and GroenLinks, who together with the Labour Party thought about how beautiful the Netherlands can be. We agree on the latter and also on the desired effort to do a great deal for it. This law brings coherence into a multitude of laws and rules, including the Flora and fauna Act and the Forest Act, as well as the rules resulting from the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive. This creates a single legal regime, which also redistributes tasks between the Empire and the Province. Another point of profit is Mr Schaap, there he comes the recognition of the intrinsic value of nature and the resulting duty of care. In our group's view, this means rejecting instrumental interaction with animals, plants and the earth and its ecosystems, and recognising that everything that lives has its own meaning, regardless of the use that man can make of it. Christians speak of the earth preferably as creation, not only as a reference to a Creator, but also to express that people do not own the earth. The word "rentmeester" has already fallen on colleague Verheijen. Of course, we'd like to join in on that. We ourselves as a man take a place between all life that we have not produced ourselves, but that is entrusted to our care. That's why Pope Francis calls Earth our "sister" in his beautiful ecological encyclical. It is our own idea that we should be lord and master, but it is that attitude, strengthened by the possibilities of science and technology, that has caused unprecedented damage. I'm quoting a little piece of this encyclical, Laudato Si. It would be wrong to think that the other living beings, therefore, other than human beings, should be considered pure objects subject to the arbitrary rule of the human being. When nature is only seen as an object of benefit and interest, it also has serious consequences for society. The view that supports the arbitrariness of the strongest has fostered great inequality, injustice and violence for most of humanity, because the resources become the property of who comes first or who has the power: the winner gets everything. So much for the quote of Pope Francis. As far as we are concerned, the notion of intrinsic value is meaningful to be put in the right relation to our natural environment and to further motivate our duty of care. Moreover, I would remind you that we also know expressions such as 'the inherent dignity of man'. I think they are close to here when we talk about the intrinsic value of animals, plants and nature. The law before us has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate in the Lower House in the last four years in various rounds. My group does not need to repeat that discussion. What matters is whether the proposed levels of protection for animals, plants and landscapes will be adequately covered in the new set-up that has now been chosen. The next question for us is whether there will be sufficient guidance in decentralised policies to keep direction and coherence, and hence direction, in the Dutch approach. These are the two main questions to which I would like to make a number of comments in this debate. The first question concerns the levels of protection in the Netherlands. These are under pressure in a densely populated and intensively used country with an agricultural sector that brings with it strong environmental pressure. Now this bill is aligned with European standards, which, as is stated, have high levels of protection. However, the latter is not at all certain, as the European Birds and Habitats Directives, for example, are also under pressure. Some of my colleagues have already pointed this out. The current evaluation of this will also be discussed during the Dutch Presidency. Is it conceivable that Europe will lower its standards? What is the Dutch view on this? Can we know them, even in this debate? In any case, we are curious to see what the new Secretary of State thinks about this. On top of what Europe has directives, the Netherlands will have to pursue its own policies. The Netherlands has to deliver customization, precisely because of the small scale of our nature, and set its own goals. In this respect, we are concerned that the law has so few obligations to achieve results and so many commitments. Are these results commitments going to be made in the different nature visions that Rijk and province have been held to make? I would like to hear the Secretary of State on this point. Good and reliable information is very important to conduct a good policy. The Planning Office for the Environment will review the state of play once every two years, as stated in Article 1.9 of the Act. It also focuses on improving our scientific understanding, including for the benefit of flora and fauna management. What are the plans? How does the government intend to achieve this? We would like to hear more about that. It is important that the planning agency does not collect and analyse information as the sole body. It would be a good idea to develop a broad range of expertise. Perhaps universities, such as Wageningen, could play a role in this. I would like to receive a response to this point. Another question is how to keep coherence and direction in policy when provinces start to work from their own point of view and responsibility. The Empire has its own system responsibility and is obliged to answer for generic policies. Let me give you an example. The provinces are responsible for species protection, but the Empire is responsible for whether we comply with the Birds and Habitats Directives. In the House of Representatives, a debate was held on the method of monitoring natural values in order to prevent each province from doing so in its own way. The data, which must remain compatible, has also been discussed. The Secretary of State, although at the time another person, was only able to reply in a general sense. She referred to the consultations to be held between the Empire and the provinces. Has that happened yet? And what's the result of that? In any event, my group believes that the Empire should continue to apply formats to enable policy unity. Provinces will also have to cooperate well with each other. Can the Secretary of State provide an insight into the state of play? Does the IPO play a role in this? We see it as a gain that provincial directors need to take clear action, but they are required to have a great deal of flexibility and a cooperative attitude. Who's got the lead, after all? Finally, I would like to ask about the role of municipalities. They are not mentioned, but they do have a role of their own, especially in the near future, if this law has to be brought into line with the Environmental Law and the municipal permit policy. In municipalities, the question arises as to how to do this and whether resources will be made available for the municipal tasks of, inter alia, supervision and enforcement. An enforcement deficit has already been identified, according to the Mans Committee. In the framework of the Environmental Act, work is being done on scaling up and expansion. An additional effort must also be made to protect nature. In my group's view, municipalities have a point when they call the shots. We would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State and consider tabling a motion on this point in the second term. In many respects, my group sees an improvement in this law, especially by the disappearance of bulkheads and the integration of various regulations into a single legal framework. However, we are concerned about whether we will continue to achieve our goals. We ask the government to show that it is serious with our concern for creation, now that the intrinsic value of it is so explicitly discussed. Also in the light of the Paris climate conference and the established link between human behaviour and climate change, our duty of care should not be a closing point, but should be a serious defence of urgent responsibility. We hope that this spirit is competent about this Secretary of State and subsequent directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u65	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Verheijen and Mr Van Kesteren on their maiden speech. Also welcome and congratulations to the Secretary of State for his first appearance here. It's nice that the new Nature Protection Act is here, because who doesn't want to protect nature? Who's against nature? No one, of course! The main aim of the law is to create clarity, but if the law states that nature has "intrinsic value" then we are there again, then of course you ask in advance for legal hassle. I cannot get over Mr Schaap's philosophical approach, but it is an arbitrary term. The PVV Group believes that the legislator itself should set the limits. We should not leave that to the interpretation of judges by means of expensive procedures. No, take responsibility as politics itself, set boundaries and create clarity. And no matter how much everyone appreciates nature, it's always about how to protect nature in the most densely populated country in the world. How do you do that? Do you do this by pursuing the protection of certain fauna or flora at all costs, because it might have lived here for a number of years at random? Or do you do that more rationally, considering, for example, the knowledge that people want to enjoy that nature? Do you consider that nature, like the climate, changes every year, every decade and every millennium? And do you consider this yourself, or do you go back to the Brussels leash, to mention a well-known PVV objection? It is busy in nature, with hikers, with dog owners, with riders, with cyclists, with bike and motocrossers. Yeah, it's so crowded that the enforcers can't handle it. We must not ignore this everyday reality, especially if we continue to pursue arbitrary objectives. The law replaces three other laws. This will make the system more accessible and simpler. It seems to place more responsibility on citizens and businesses, with a supposedly far-reaching duty of care. We welcome this direction. On the other hand, there is an increase in bureaucracy and increasing costs, especially for private landowners, as Sira calculated. These are caused by a patchwork of nature reserves and areas. Within a few years, the Environment Act will come. It takes an integrated approach, rather than the fragmented and sectoral approach of this law. My first question to the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, is this: is this law not going to happen again? And is it wise to adopt this law now? How is it resolved that the Environment Act has a different approach than the Nature Protection Act? The PVV is also unhappy with the decentralisation of policies. Since then, Secretary of State Rutte decentralised the assistance, it has been seen as a kind of magical tool to save costs and to charge local authorities not only with the implementation, but also with the definition of policies. So is this bill. As a result, all provinces will soon have to come up with a nature vision. Twelve natural visions are much more expensive than one. In addition, nature does not adhere to provincial boundaries. Professor Olff gave striking examples of this during our expert meeting. In addition, we run the risk that in each province the deputy sets other goals, which can in theory run counter to the objectives of a neighbouring province. It is fine that supervision is and is organized on a decentralised basis, but let us not give the vision away to drivers who also change seats at provincial level every four years. After all, new aldermen may want a bridge or a new town hall, new deputy blue grass or the gray gors. We don't think that's wise. The PVV raises the question of where the citizen is with each legislative proposal. At provincial level, people are preparing for this law. I went there to ask. Deputys told me that citizens can come forward when the regulations are written. They could then leave a message with PS and make their sound sound. Of course, that's not gonna happen. Citizens are frightened, as is my experience, when they experience that, for example, a forest is severely thinned out for the sake of sand spray, such as natural monuments propagating, or as a state forest management plant a forest where the environment appreciates heaths and countryside very much. Where's the burger? Perhaps the Secretary of State can respond, because nature is not only from interest groups and groups, but above all from all of us, from our inhabitants? Perhaps he can also take with him what he will do with Mr Van Vollenhoven's opinion. It is not for all areas and territories, but, although in three layers, for more and large parks with economic development at the edges, also with a view to financing. So that is not only good for the finances, but it also increases the involvement of the citizens, which we clearly miss in this law. For example, look at the national parks in the United States. They're world famous, even outside the United States. Mr Van Vollenhoven's opinion is also in line with the opinion of the Council for the Environment and Infrastructure of a number of years ago. It stated that connecting all kinds of small nature reserves with those very expensive ecoducts does not work, despite the hundreds of millions spent in vain. In the same report by Mr Van Vollenhoven, the advice is to move away from these patchwork of nature and to build a clear system, such as for monuments. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State. It is an opinion that Economic Affairs itself has asked for. The PVV very much appeals to that proposal and I hope that it does not disappear in a drawer. The new law also offers opportunities to protect nature from invasive exotics. In fact, they can't even be traded. It will be understood that this is very appealing to the PVV. I will not make the sidestep to the asylum invasion that plagues our country, because that is a bit easy, but for protecting our nature from invasive exotics and not letting them overgrown or threatened there, of course, there is something to say. But what is an exotic in a constantly changing nature? Like the Cabinet and the Council of State, we can be guided by the Planning Office for the Environment, but is that wise? That's a club, it seems, which, by definition, determines that nature is incredibly bad shape. The association with the IPCC, the United Nations climate change resource, is pressing. Each time it's another five to twelve. And is that so? Is nature and biodiversity so bad and how important is that? Nature is constantly changing. Why should nature look like in the year 1700 or 1950, also popular with the advisory industry? Who takes the trouble to really look at the exact figures of the PBL? No one, well, hardly anyone, because someone recently wrote a report on it. And what does it turn out to be? You end up in a mess of definitions, magic with numbers that reflect everything but not how good or how bad nature is doing right now. So it can be, to mention just one simple example, that foresting of heaths leads to lower biodiversity. Because more forests and less heaths, according to such an arbitrary statement, are less biodiversity. And that while planting trees is seen as a kind of waste in the green church. Finland is the highest-scoring country with biodiversity in Europe while it is one of the poorest species in the EU. The Netherlands dangles at the bottom with many more species. Whoever understands can say it. Mark Twain once said: groin, damned groin and statistics. Nature has been subject to change in all time scales. Species that move adapt. That's nature. The proverb is not for nothing "you must let nature go its way." That nature is impossible to make. The blackbird was a forest songbird a century and a half ago but in the meantime he whistles with us in the city gardens and on our balconies, whether the PBL likes it or not. The gray gors entered Europe precisely because of the agricultural activities that have been developed over the last centuries. What is a threat to one species is an opportunity for another species. Nature, like society, is not makeable. Controllable, yes, maybe, but not makeable, no matter how much subsidy you throw at it. So we have to get rid of this forceful country and the phony nature of the PBL, although, of course, I also understand that if the PBL finds out that it is fantastic with nature, politics may not be so excited to transfer tens of millions of tax dollars to that PBL every year. Here too, the comparison with the IPCC is compelling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u66	Will Mr. Dercksen explain to me what "the phony nature of the PBL" is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u67	You have received a report on it from Mr Sailmaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u68	You are bringing it into the debate here. So I'm asking you what "the phony nature of the PBL" is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u69	I've just given you an example. Mr Sailmaker has tried to clarify with Wob requests what biodiversity now looks like in the PBL. He ended up in a mess of numbers and numbers. Let me give you a good example. Then Secretary of State Bleker in Rutte I once said: if we have spent all those billions and then it turns out that every year things are getting worse with nature and biodiversity as the PBL tells us, is it wise to continue doing so? He hadn't said it yet and all of a sudden the PBL came up with reports indicating that there had suddenly been a stability of biodiversity. That is exactly what I mean, namely that all these figures are interpretable and that you have to wait and see for which arbitrary principles the ladies and gentlemen of the PBL choose to assess the quality of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u70	I think you're taking on claims from others rather easily here without really explaining why you're doing this. It's quite an accusation to talk about shuffle nature. This is a scientific institute that does research that provides important building blocks for policy. So apparently you're saying, "The whole club's no good." That's kind of what you're suggesting. I think that's a big deal. Then I expect a clear and well-founded argument and not just references to someone else's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u71	That wasn't just a report. It was a peer review by Mr. Sailmaker. Many people have checked and tested his figures and comments and have therefore approved that report and that has been sent to us. A few years ago I had a discussion with the SP group in my province. I also raised the question at that time: how can the PBL come up with very drastic figures every year while looking at the red-listed animals at the CBS, I don't actually see any significant changes. That report now also shows that the CBS has deducted its hands from the numbers published by the PBL. So you really shouldn't be asking me those critical questions. The CBS has also deducted its hands from the PBL. I think that's an important warning. I'll put that on the table right here. I have not heard anyone critically talk about what diversity is and what the starting points should be. I'd like to throw that rock in the pond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u72	I note that you are putting on the table accusations that you simply cannot support. So I would say: come forward with targeted and well-founded questions. I absolutely do not share your view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u73	On the contrary, you should be pleased that you are finally getting an answer in this house, because that seems almost a non-use. There has rightly been a lot of attention to hunting. It is also clear how the PVV stands in that discussion. We don't want pleasure, pressure and drift hunting. It is a sad conclusion that because of a somewhat artificial compromise between the coalition parties in the House of Representatives, there are five species that can be hunted without significant supervision and also with inconsistent support. One of the main objections to this law is the legal inequality that arises between the TBOs and the other private nature managers. Freedom of association is being taken away from them. They must unite in the fauna management units and the wildlife management units. Private landowners and national parks will soon be bound by these fauna management plans and will already be caught in a whole new piece of legislation. They're not being expropriated yet, but it is. So this is imposing a kind of planning economy on nature. Everyone knows, perhaps even the SP too, that a planned economy is harmful to everything and therefore also to nature. Nature is politicized and juridized. We do not think that is the right direction. Anyone who has ever been in a national park must acknowledge that these parks are excellently managed by people who, like at De Hoge Veluwe National Park, perform their work in an excellent way and maintain nature almost without any subsidy. They must now formally wait and see what the fauna management units are making up for them. That can't really be true, can it? Why not a system in which not only national parks but also other private nature managers are given the freedom to maintain and report on nature, whether certified or not? Then the government will have to intervene only if there are indications that the park or nature is not moving in the right direction. Saves a lot of money and a lot of bureaucracy. As far as I am concerned, this is also in line with the opinions of Mr Van Vollenhoven. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to the new planning economy of nature. The legal inequality that this law brings between the Terrainbeheering Organisaties (TBOs) and the other administrators is rather lean in terms of compulsory participation in the Wildlife Management Unit (Wbe). As a reason, the Cabinet argues that it has stepped up this infringement of freedom of association because it wants to protect the rights and freedoms of others and prevent the commission of criminal offences. However, the size of a TBO can't be leading between these groups, can it? If you are a large organisation, your actions cannot therefore infringe the rights and freedoms of others or may not constitute criminal offences, but if you are a small landowner, that can be the case. That's bullshit, and it's legally as soft as butter. In no way has it been substantiated how criminal offences are prevented by population management and the fight against harm on your own territory. There's no evidence to support it. The Secretary of State merely assumes that social control within an association prevents these offences. An association, a group of people, simply commits less crimes than an individual, is the conclusion. Don't get me started, Mr. President... this rather totalitarian way of thinking, which I actually find a little scary, the Secretary of State should explain to me. This law also does not put an end to the full subjectivity of applying the rules. Where under the guise of Natura 2000 our fishermen are made impossible to fish in areas where generations have done so for them, State Forestry has cut trees from the Robbenoord forest to set up windmills. In a Natura 2000 area. You get some ideological friends to write a report, good for the turnover of Alterra in this case; they invent a term for you, "forest wind farming," and as a State Forest Management you tap into a new source of subsidy. Something tells me they wouldn't get it in their heads at the national parks to put windmills there. The question is therefore justified in who the natural heart is in the right place and who is apparently more concerned with the money. It is particularly worrying that large TBOs are given all the freedom and that the private nature managers are placed under a kind of curatel. As far as PVV is concerned, that cannot be explained. The Crisis and Recovery Act also puts on the edges of the ecological main structure (ehs) wind turbines, with me in the municipality of Vianen for example in an area full of red-listed birds. According to the PBL, they are endangered species. But they're going straight into those chopping machines. The dogma is obviously greater and the value of nature is obviously not as big as it is about windmills. What good is the Nature Protection Act, with so much paper, when our country is filled with windmills? I don't know if the MPs have recently seen the pictures of the dike in Urk. Previously this was a rustic fishing village, which is now completely out of the question next to all the mega-subsidies that have been placed behind it and next to it. Landscape mutilation who doesn't know his equal! What good is the Nature Protection Act, so much paper, if we don't have enough green boas? They are laughed at by the poachers and if those poachers are fined, they pay them laughingly. The province of Utrecht is added for 15 fte work, but only for 2 fte money. So the chances of getting more attention for those green boas are zero. Forest rangers no longer dare to enter the forest without a service weapon and are so frustrated that they no longer report poaching. What good is a Nature Protection Act, on this pile of paper, if the poachers can just go their own way? I'd like an answer to this. In addition, the VNG and the provinces have their reservations. We have heard their concerns about the financing of the legal tasks they are required to carry out. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he's going to solve these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u74	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Verheijen, Mr Schnabel and Mr Van Kesteren on their maiden speech. I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State on his new position. I hope he will fight for the ideals he has previously expressed as a member of the House of Representatives, particularly in the area of animal welfare and nature. Today we are discussing the conditions for our ecological budget. In a country where the ecological budget deficit is many times greater than the financial deficit and where only 15% of the original biodiversity is left, nature represents a great value, regardless of its usefulness to humans. Nature has a value in itself, the Party for Animals attaches itself to highlighting this, but is also crucial to our existence. Nature purifies the air. Nature purifies the water we need to drink. Nature provides a healthy soil to grow our food. Without nature, we're nowhere like humans. And yet we see an opportunity to formulate policies which are contrary to nature and even to our own nature. Nature in the Netherlands is bad for it. More than 80% of species and habitat types are in an unfavourable conservation state. Population and consumption growth is increasing the pressure to convert nature into agricultural land, resulting in even more biodiversity loss. The Netherlands still far from meeting the objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directives, putting them in a favourable state of conservation and keeping European important species and habitats. In rural areas, wildlife populations have fallen by 40% since 1990. In open nature areas, such as heaths and dunes, animal populations have fallen by an average of 50% since 1990. This is mainly due to intensive farming. Animals and nature suffer from heavy fertilization, pesticide use and the drying and mowing of pastures. Better enforcement of existing nature legislation and strengthening of nature protection are therefore necessary. However, the cabinet chooses the opposite. The absolute minimum of the European directives for the protection of nature is taken as a starting point in this new law, and even for these minimum objectives insufficient safeguards have been taken into account. The recognition of "intrinsic value" conceals the fact that this law represents a clear deterioration in the level of protection both in the enforcement and in the feasibility. If you recognize the intrinsic value, you can't accept letting nature go backwards. Recognition must include protection. The massive error of thinking that twilights through this bill is that nature is in the way of the economy and that we need the rules to grow the economy instead of nature. Protecting the economy from nature is the reversed world that we people have created in the Netherlands. It's gotta be the other way around. Although the law has been named Nature Protection Act, the level of protection of natural areas is significantly lower than is now enshrined in the Nature Protection Act and the Flora and fauna Act. Recently, a number of findings from the report of the Van Vollenhoven Committee, which has already been appointed a number of times this evening, have confirmed the extent to which we have come to a dead end with the Nature Protection Act. The Committee notes that, with the new legislative system and the underlying philosophy of the law, the Empire seems to be giving over the direction of nature of national interest, on the one hand, because only the minimum levels of protection of the European Birds and Habitats Directives are maintained, on the other hand, because the individual provinces are now responsible for achieving the European nature objectives, without any direction, accountability or a sound and accountable review framework. In addition, the Committee notes that the designation of nature areas to be protected at national level will be made fully dependent on the notification as a Natura 2000 site and the European performance obligations. It is no longer possible to protect nature and landscape areas for other reasons, even if they represent a national interest. The status of the 64 remaining protected natural moments that have not been granted Natura 2000 status will lapse, while the national importance of representing these sites is unchanged. Protection of landscapescapes and cultural historical and experience values also lapses. Naturework The Netherlands used to be reasonably protected through the no, unless-policy, at the time the ehs. Spatial developments were not allowed, unless there was a strong public interest. This condition will now lapse. It is up to the individual provinces to decide how to deal with areas within Nature Network Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to these findings from the committee. Does he wish to indicate on what points he believes the level of protection of nature and animals is increasing as a result of this law in relation to the existing situation? The Empire has a European and international substantive responsibility for achieving a favourable state of conservation of species and habitats and for stopping further deterioration of biodiversity. The Empire has obligations to achieve results in this respect. However, the bill does not give the Empire the necessary tools to fulfil that responsibility. This is worrying. While nature is in bad shape, there is only an effort obligation for the provinces. This concern was already expressed at the expert meeting. It was feared that the Netherlands would not fulfil its European and international responsibilities. Under the Province Act, the Empire only has reactive instruments to intervene if the achievement of the results obligations of the Empire is at risk. The Party for Animals considers that the Empire has insufficient power in this respect by this law. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how this unclear commitment per province relates to the results that the Netherlands has to achieve nationally in order to comply with international agreements. The ultimate responsibility of the Empire to realise the Netherlands Nature Network should be firmly anchored in the law, for example through the provision that Natura 2000 sites are realized within 15 years. The objective of Natura 2000 sites is to combat further biodiversity degradation by protecting certain species and their habitats. Why was it not chosen to include a clear guarantee of the obligations of the Empire in the Nature Protection Act? Does the Secretary of State still see possibilities for this? I'd like to get a response, because I'm considering a motion on this point. I have a comment on species protection. The bans have become less stringent than they are now in the Flora and fauna laws. The bans and exceptions are closely aligned with the Birds and Habitats Directives with the new law. Supplementary protected species are subject to a less stringent regime. The new law only prohibits the deliberate killing or distressing of animals rather than the killing or distressing of animals. According to the Party for Animals, this constitutes a weakening of the ban which can have major consequences. A striking example of this, which was also mentioned at the expert meeting, was that a large number of minutes, prepared for visitors to the Wadden region who committed violations, were torn apart last summer, in anticipation of the new Nature Act. These visitors committed violations by entering or sailing rest areas after drying and thus disturbing seals and birds. Under the new law, the people who have been issued can argue that the disturbances they caused were not intentional. After all, they just wanted to take a picture or thought it couldn't hurt. The wording "intentionally killing or distressing" therefore makes enforcement extremely complex, if not impossible. Is the government prepared to amend this omission? The Animal Party is concerned about the decision not to ban any disturbance of birds but only disturbances of birds that have a significant impact on the conservation status of the species concerned. The protection of animals belonging to a protected species is hereby abandoned by the government. This creates a requirement that is impossible to maintain. How does the government intend to maintain the ban on disruption? How should enforcers distinguish between disruptions and disturbances that have a significant impact on the conservation status? I'd like to get clarity from the Secretary of State on this point. Mr President, I have another point concerning the decentralisation of nature policy. Professor Olff noted that decentralisation created an important problem. Political development and recent scientific insights are at odds with each other in this respect. Scientific research shows precisely that the spatial scale on which ecological processes work is often underestimated, and much larger than expected. Many species protected by the Birds and Habitats Directives operate on at least a national but also international scale. A number of references have been made to this. This may pose a major risk to the administrative liability of provinces that do not have sufficient natural results, for example due to a sharp decline of a species that spends part of its life cycle in that province. However, birds, mammals and larger insects are often highly mobile and do not comply with municipal and provincial boundaries. They are therefore comparable to national and international companies, which also do not have to comply with different environmental standards in each province. Add to this the huge risk of divergence of objectives, rules and procedures between those municipalities and provinces and you come to the question of whether nature management in the implementation, especially at municipal and provincial level, will not cause major problems. In this context, I ask the Secretary of State how the number of birds, mammals, larger insects and animals that are mobile is counted and what the consequence is. Are the national measurement networks not on the path of decentralisation? How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that there is uniformity in the census targets between provinces in order to achieve good measurement results? The new law refers to "obtrusive" as a reason for combating protected species. This is contrary to the Birds and Habitats Directives. Municipalities can obtain such an exemption from the province. That exemption is not subject to appeal or objection, since it is a general binding rule. What this means for enforcement in practice remains unclear. I would like clarification from the Secretary of State. The government also provides an additional possibility for provinces to grant exemptions or exemptions for the capture of birds and other animals. The bill even makes it possible to keep animals in the wild "wise." It is not at all clear why the government wants to allow this and what purpose this farming of non-domestic animals serves. I also like to get a reaction to this. Finally. The Animal Party is deeply concerned about the effects of the new Nature Protection Act. With this bill, the government shows that it has no intrinsic motivation to protect nature. Moreover, the minimalisation of nature protection through different directives and treaties complicates the law. Each directive and convention has different protection regimes. Taking over all these protection regimes makes legislation unnecessarily complex. A choice for one own protection regime would be much better, but the government does not. This is striking, since the government is saying it wants to simplify the Nature Protection Act. I ask the Secretary of State to clarify this. Without this clarity, my group will not be able to support the new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate colleagues Van Kesteren, Verheijen and Schnabel on their maiden speech and welcome the Secretary of State to his new position. Killing animals purely for the pleasure of a hunter, without social necessity, is not acceptable. I believe that hunting, partly because of the intrinsic value of the animal, should serve a social purpose. Those are not my words, but those of Secretary of State Dijksma in a letter dated 26 June last year to the House of Representatives. Unacceptable; that is a major political judgment. Because today we are discussing an amended proposal of law in which it was "unacceptable" turned into a carte blanche for hunting without purpose or necessity, without plan in advance, I would like to know from the new Secretary of State how he would describe the qualification "unacceptable" of his predecessor in office, or even more how he would like to translate that qualification into policy. I'd like to get a response. In the amended bill of nature protection, the cabinet arranged for the hunting only of duck, pheasant, wood pigeon, hare and rabbit to take place in accordance with a pre-drafted discharge plan that was part of the fauna management plan. For the purposes of hunting, this proposed obligation meant that the discharge had to be planned, structured, objectified and maximized, taking into account the damage history and the capacity of the populations. That intention has been stranded on an amendment by the VVD and the Labour Party, which would allow the purely for the fun of hares, ducks, wood pigeons, rabbits and pheasants to remain possible, contrary to the cabinet's intention, contrary to the legally recognised intrinsic value of animals and contrary to everything that almost all parties promised in their 2012 election programmes: there would be an end to hunting without purpose or necessity; a hunt that knew no other reason than the pleasure of the hunters. On 17 November, a motion was unanimously adopted in this House by Mr Hoekstra, Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Ester and Mr Van Rooijen, who called on the government to stop clustering individual legislative proposals. We have here for the first time, after that unanimously adopted motion, to deal with such a clustered balance. The Nature Protection Act has nothing to do with the shooting of animals without purpose, without necessity, without maximation, without structuring and without regard to damage history. Yet here and now we are supposed to give one opinion on both the Nature Protection Act and the unnecessary killing of about one million animals per year; animals whose legally recognised intrinsic value is violated in the most serious way until death. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he is prepared to make a novelle in which he puts the hunt without purpose and necessity outside the Nature Protection Act and separately to both Chambers, bearing in mind the Hoekstra motion, in accordance with the government's objectives with the new law and in line with the note Mooi Nederland van D66, the Labour Party and GroenLinks, which clearly states: "Yacht is not sport, but a means that is only used in a professional way, if necessary, in the context of damage control and sustainable population management. The wild list (list of wild species) shall be abolished.' Lutz Jacobi, one of the authors of the note Beautiful Netherlands, solemnly promised on behalf of the Labour Party to eradicate the pleasure hunt with root and branch. I would like to recall her words here: 'The Labour Party is not in favour of hunting. Unless it is the only solution left to solve problems of nuisance, for example. But even then only under strict conditions. First, all other measures must be taken to combat the nuisance caused by animals and to combat damage. There is already much to be gained by reducing food supply, expanding nature reserves and using alternative methods." None of that can be found in the Nature Protection Act. I ask the Secretary of State if he can look at that again with his fellow party members or at least indicate what that might be. The successor of Lutz Jacobi, Mr Leenders, conclaved with the VVD to come up with a proposal which, in his opinion, would be even more animal-friendly than Lutz Jacobi's. He suggested that animal protection and nature conservation organisations should now be able to be part of the fauna management units to talk about hunting. In return, he granted the VVD that the pleasure hunt would remain unaffected and would even be extended in relation to the Secretary of State's plans. Hunters should be allowed to shoot as many hares, pheasants, rabbits, wood pigeons and wild ducks as they like; only they should report afterwards to the fauna management unit, their hunting association, how large the number of animals shot, the size of their hunting booty had been. In order to be able to objectify all this, animal protectors and conservationists should be allowed to speak freely in the fauna management units about the number of animals shot. A kind of recurring requiem for the shot animals. Organisations such as the Animal Protection, the Fauna Protection, the Bird Protection and Natural Monuments strongly distanced themselves from the compromise between the VVD and the Labour Party, which proved not to be a compromise at all, but a carte blanche for the pleasure hunt. This was contrary to the electoral promise of the Labour Party, contrary to the intentions of D66 and GroenLinks, contrary to the advice of animal and nature conservationists and thus an untenable proposal, especially since during the expert meeting in this house not only animal and nature conservationists spoke very critically about the law, but also scientists, hunters, private landowners and forest rangers. Almost none of the speakers advised the adoption of the law. Therefore, there is every reason to consider the law very seriously, not so much as an agreement between two coalition groups in the House of Representatives, but above all also in terms of the illogical combination of a law that seeks to protect nature and its intrinsic value, and on the other hand a part of the law that gives hunters the freedom to end the lives of large numbers of animals purely for the pleasure of the hunter. A million animals leave their lives that way, and a multiple of them are injured, shot. A Chamber which, three weeks ago, asked not to be forced to give a single opinion on linked legislative proposals which are not directly related to each other could now at least lead to the consequence that the protection of animals and the killing of animals cannot fall within one judgment. The starting position was perfectly clear. Prior to the 2012 elections, De Groene Keieswissen took stock of the positions of the Dutch political parties on the pleasure hunt. This showed that the Labour Party, the VVD, the CDA, D66, the SP, the Christian Union, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals are chasing statements without social interest. The PVV has also spoken out against the pleasure hunt on many occasions, even today. With the colleagues of the Labour Party, D66 and GroenLinks who stated in the Mooi Nederland note that the wild list should be deleted, I believe that waste can only be allowed if it can be measured on objective grounds that this is in the interest of damage control or population management. No species is always and everywhere harmful and animals that have no population problems and do not cause any nuisance should not be hunted down solely for fun on the basis of the intrinsic value principle. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on that point. To the surprise of many, the Labour Party and the VVD came up with a proposal that they presented as widely behaved and animal friendly, while the opposite turned out to be the case. Civil society organisations have not even been involved in the development of the amendment, while the Labour Party claims to have made it for them. The exchange between the Labour Party and the VVD has led to nothing. The Labour Party has paid a high price; dirty hands, but empty hands at the same time. Mr Leenders said that he had a more animal-friendly plan than the Beautiful Netherlands note and the initiative paper of the Party for Animals. However, now that this is not the case and the plan is not supported by civil society organisations, there is nothing left but a novella to hunt without any sense and need to present it separately to Parliament. There is no need to oppose this. Civil society organisations consider the agreement presented by PvdA and VVD to be a bad idea because the fauna management units no longer play any role in the field of hunting and combating damage by land users. The disposal plan is deleted, as is the obligation for land users to comply with the rules set out in the fauna management plan when combating damage. There are also no clear requirements for a specific planning approach to animal management. The amendment represents a deterioration in the controllability, enforcement and possible course of justice with regard to hunting and the fight against damage by farmers, with regard to the legislative proposal and the current situation. Controllability and enforcement relate exclusively to the rules contained in the legislative proposal, particularly in the field of technical matters such as means, hunting times and insurance. Not a word about usefulness, necessity and effectiveness. And thus in flagrant contradiction with the protection of the intrinsic value of animals, their meaning regardless of their usefulness to humans. Mr Kuiper also spoke about this. It is not possible for interested organisations in the field of nature or animal protection to initiate legal proceedings against the pursuit of hunting or the fight against harm by farmers, as this does not require decisions by an administrative body which could be challenged. This proposal is not only an attack on the lives of millions of wildlife, but also an attack on their legal protection, and in particular that part should weigh heavily when treated in this house. In the new law, nuisance is a reason to combat protected species. This is contrary to the Birds and Habitats Directives. Municipalities can obtain such an exemption from the province and, as has been said, this exemption is not subject to appeal or objection because it is a general binding rule. The provinces may exempt land users from killing animals at their discretion in the event of damage. This is also a general binding provision. This exemption is therefore not subject to appeal or objection and cannot therefore be reviewed by a court. This is so much contrary to legal protection that, in the interests of legality alone, this should be a reason for rejecting this bill in its present form. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State on this point. I would ask the Secretary of State to ensure that the right to implement the fauna policy is not confined exclusively to fauna management units as long as they are organisations consisting solely or mainly of hunters, but also to grant other organisations that right when they are sufficiently qualified to do so. Otherwise, there would be serious legal inequality in the design and implementation of fauna policy. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. The Group of the Party of European Socialists in the House of Representatives has said that it wants to make hunting more animal-friendly. The question is why the bill does not provide for guns only to be shot with, not with, hail. We must not ignore the fact that a large number of animals are "sickly shot" in hunting terms. The five species that are included in the law as freely huntable are shot with hail. A hail pattern contains hundreds of metal parts, so is actually a kind of cluster munitions or bomb, which are fired on animals in full motion. In the Dutch hunting field, on average, three rounds are shot per killed animal. These are at least 600 pellets of which some can and will be deadly and some will not be deadly, with animals in the immediate vicinity often being hit. The recent report from 2014 Emission estimates Diffuse sources Emission registration, prepared by TNO and Deltares on behalf of the Ministry, fully confirms this picture. The hunt disturbs Dutch nature to an important extent. There are three reasons for this. The hunt impoverishs nature by removing biomass from nature, disrupting natural population dynamics and disrupting the hunted species and other species. The disturbance of nature, in particular disturbance of the other non-hunting species, has repeatedly been demonstrated by research carried out by, among others, Alterra from 2004 and 2010. The presence of hunters and their dogs and their shots cause disruption of many species present. For example, deer become more vigilant, at the expense of their foraging time and their visibility to tourists. The negative effect is also recognised for birds that arrive and want to use the site where the hunting takes place. Fleeing animals send a strong alarm signal to other animals in the forest during hunting. This may result in animals no longer experiencing their habitat as safe and fleeing. Sometimes they don't return for days. My group also lacks a clear evaluation of the currently proposed hunting legislation, an evaluation that is more necessary than ever, as the government is taking a step backwards in protecting our wildlife and nature. My group would like that evaluation to be carried out by law. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. People's confidence in politics has fallen to a low point, much has been established these days. The government coalition has only a virtual majority of 30 seats in this house. Where the majority of the Dutch population rejects the pleasure hunt as a reason for the slaughter of healthy animals and the government parties that have also promised abolition to the electorate, it would be embarrassing if the same government parties were not now abolishing, but even expanding, the yacht. The Secretary of State said that it was unacceptable to shoot animals without social benefit or need for society. I'll repeat that word again. Anyone who knows the political load of that word will wonder how the Secretary of State intends to avoid that outspoken judgment without any consequences other than the abolition of pleasure hunting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u76	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That's not the case. Then I shall suspend the debate and the sitting for dinner break until 8 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u77	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u78	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Verheijen, Mr Van Kesteren and, in fact, Mr Schnabel, who also made his maiden speech here today. I would like to say straight away that it is not just the first time I have been in this position, but also the first time I have been allowed to speak in this Chamber. Here's the thing. I once made an initiative proposal and defended it in the House of Representatives. To my great disappointment, that did not call for a discussion in this Chamber. I came here and sat behind this table at least to be there when that bill was hammered off. Perhaps I am looking a little differently at the desirability of no discussion in this position, but then I found it a great disappointment. For me, therefore, it is the first time I have spoken here, and I think that is a great privilege, and then about a legislative proposal that is much more extensive than the one I would have liked to have defended in this Chamber at the time. It is a bill on our nature protection, I say to Mr Schaap. Before I go into all the questions put by the Chamber in a brief introduction, let me outline a few things about the bill. Anything that passes through there, I will then dwell a little more in detail. The bill is, of course, an important part of nature policy. For the longer term, it determines the lines within which the Netherlands protects its nature. European and international obligations are the basis for this. With this bill, we aim to link economics and ecology. I heard a certain tension between those two in the contributions of some Members of the Chamber. In fact, it was actually put down as if those two were each other's enemies. That's not helping. It is precisely to protect nature with society and not to protect nature from society. I have heard Mr Schaap and Mr Verheijen say in their contribution that it must be about developing, improving and creating space for creativity. It is not just protecting and limiting, but precisely that balanced approach. I therefore agree with these Members. Mr Van Kesteren also stressed the importance of this bill from that point of view. I would point out that in the legislative proposal management and development come back to a large extent, along with the protection of nature. In Mr Verheij's words: an optimistic approach. That appealed to me very much. That is also the strength of this bill. The emphasis is not only on the use value of nature for man, but also on the value of nature by itself. That is why I am pleased that this intrinsic value has a place in this bill, as one of the reasons for it. I shall, of course, deal in detail with the concerns expressed by the Court. The provinces have an important role to play in nature policy and the implementation of nature legislation. I have to say, let me say in introduction, that there is a great deal of confidence that the provinces will be ambitious in shaping nature policy. I heard some doubts about that in the Chamber. Apart from what I had already seen before I was sworn in in this position, in the past month, I confirmed in my first talks with the provinces that they will undertake this task with full ambition and commitment in terms of the goals we have agreed with each other at European and international level. The advantage for the provinces is that they can deliver customization within the legal frameworks. That is why we have made extra 200 million euros per year available for nature policy and have made agreements with the provinces in the Nature Pact and in the Nature Pact. I am pleased that several members of the Chamber have expressed their support for this decentralisation in their contribution. I will, of course, be happy to answer the questions about this bill and give an idea of the lines along which I will do so, so that the Chamber will know when the various themes will come along. The first block concerns general questions about the legislative proposal. This is also about the objectives of the bill, such as the intrinsic value and the division of responsibility between the Empire and provinces. The second block deals with the protection regimes included in the legislative proposal. The third block is about management, damage control and hunting. The fourth block concerns the relationship with the Environment Act. The fifth and last block we call the other block, in which I will address all the questions that have not been raised in the previous blocks. Several speakers have raised issues relating to the considerations, objectives and backgrounds of this legislative proposal. Questions have also been asked, in particular by Mr Schaap, about the naming of the bill. In addition, questions have been asked about the general provisions laid down in Chapter 1 of the legislative proposal. Mr Van Kesteren pointed out that I would like to remind you of the importance of decentralisation. In particular, he pointed out that this was actually a more general introduction to his maiden speech on the importance of reaching consensus and compromises. That's the intention behind this bill, that we protect nature together. For that, we sometimes have to get out of our shooter pits and make sure we come out together. Mr Schaap said that he considered the term "nature protection" in the title of this law to be too defensive and that he felt that it did not do justice to the intertwined nature and culture. In fact, I was largely in agreement with his reflections. He rightly points out that nature and culture are intertwined in our country and that much nature is the result of human intervention. I too think it is important that there should be a change of heart, as I said earlier. It's not about protecting nature from society, it's about strengthening nature with society. This fits seamlessly with the nature vision of course further. Protection is part of it, however. Nature is there to experience and use, but also to protect. It is essential for the balance to protect vulnerable and endangered habitats and species from certain harmful human activities where necessary. This bill provides for prohibitions where international obligations require them. These provisions offer the so-called passive protection. The legislative proposal also provides for active protection instruments such as a programmed approach and active species protection. The terms "design" and "management" are appropriate. I agree with Mr Schaap that the title of the law is even more positive for now. That won't surprise you. Mr Schaap and others have expressed some doubts about the concept of "intrinsic value" in the target definition of the bill. Mr Schaap even suggested that I do not do too much with that. Other Members, such as Mr Schnabel, Mr Kuiper, Mrs Vos and Mrs Teunissen, were very glorified by the inclusion of this concept. Mr Verheijen also stressed the importance of expressing the intrinsic value of nature as part of the common heritage of humanity. It is against the background of those different questions with that different tone good to go into again the meaning of the intrinsic value of nature in this bill. The concept of "intrinsic value" is linked as a motive to the purpose definition of the bill. This is reflected in Article 1.10. It expresses that nature has value in itself, regardless of its use value for man. As part of that target clause, it says that the rules in this bill are partly based on and because of that independent value. The concept thus embodies an important starting point not only of this bill but also of the policy as I see it. It's a value that man assigns, of course. I agree with Mr Schaap. The legal significance of incorporating the concept of "intrinsic value" is limited. It is not a question of setting a substantive standard in this article. Therefore, the provision does not provide a basis for additional requirements for citizens and businesses, nor does it provide a basis for independent judicial review of the intrinsic value. In fact, the judge assesses the substantive standards in the legislative proposal, not the target definition. In the light of this intrinsic value, Mr Van Kesteren asked for an assurance that there was a balanced balance of interests, for example in the case of authorisation and exemption. If you look closely at the text of Article 1.10, you will see that the bill indicates that the different values, the intrinsic value, the functional value of nature, but also the possibilities to engage in human activities alongside nature, must be in balance. That's the purpose of the law. The intrinsic value is one of the reasons, but not the only one included in the bill. In the target determination, the different values are included side by side. There is therefore no question of the dreaded imbalance in the legislative proposal. Mrs Vos asked whether the operationalisation of the intrinsic value should not get any more hands and feet in the bill. The bill implements the target definition, including that intrinsic value. For example, the proposal provides for the protection of Natura 2000 sites, vulnerable species and forests. Since that objective is not an independent normative character, it is not necessary to give further hands and feet to it. The whole law constitutes the hands and feet of the intrinsic value of nature. The whole law is a fulfillment of that target clause. Mr Verheijen asked about Parliament's involvement in the evaluation of the Natural Pact. The implementation of the Natural Pact is evaluated once every three years by the Planning Bureau for the Environment on behalf of the Empire and the IPO. The first evaluation will take place next year and I will send it to the First and Second Chambers at the end of 2016. Mr Verheijen has asked the attention of the Empire for the programmatic approach to species protection by provinces. Mrs Vos had a very positive vote on the instrument of the programmed approach. The active species policy of the provinces is explicitly addressed in the recent publication of the IPO on the implementation of the Natural Pact. I happen to have it here on my table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u79	Back to the Planning Office for the Environment, which is going to evaluate. Can the Secretary of State promise me that the way it does it, in particular the statistical way it does it, will be completely transparent for us here and on the other side, but also for all the other parties active in this field? It should not be necessary to check with all kinds of Wob requests and to investigate exactly how it came about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u80	I shall come back to this later, but the aim of this proposal is, of course, to ensure transparency and transparency of the assessments and the state of nature. We need to know what nature is like and do something about it if it is necessary or if there is room for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u81	I am looking for a commitment that there will be an annex to the reports of the OJ on how it came to the statistical data. There has to be some kind of disclaimer in which everyone can see the way in which they have been tested and that these are the results. Then anyone without complicated Wob requests can determine whether that way is right or not. It is a lot of money and everyone needs to understand exactly what is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u82	Good research always involves good accountability. I can promise you that that responsibility is part of it. Back to Mr Verheijen's programmed approach and question. As I said, the active species policy of the provinces is addressed in the publication of the IPO. I would also point out the progress of the Netherlands Nature Network and the organisation and management of nature reserves. The application of the programmatic approach tool is an option for provinces, not a duty. It's an option they're getting with this bill. I stress that it is not a necessary instrument for achieving European objectives. It can be helpful, but it can also be done in a different way. It is up to the provinces to choose between the instruments available. Mr Verheijen noted that Article 1.12 on active species policy would not be regulated to the satisfaction of the IPO and would, according to experts, be a weakly formulated part of the law. He asked whether the government could provide insight into the efforts of each province individually and of the provinces together and whether the habitat approach would be adequately implemented. Mr Kuiper also had questions about coherence and cooperation. In the House of Representatives, an amendment by Mr Heerema and Mr Leenders clarified the text of Article 1.12 in order to better reflect the fact that this article is an effort obligation for the provinces. There was also an exchange of views during the parliamentary debate, which contributed to the clarity of the scope of that article. There is no longer any discussion of this with the provinces. The line is next. The Birds and Habitats Directives contain a result obligation, but a favourable conservation status must also be achieved for habitats and species. The Empire can be approached, as I say to Mr Kuiper and Mrs Teunissen. The active species protection provided for in Article 1.12 is important for achieving a favourable state. This concerns the Netherlands Nature Network and measures outside it. Provinces take care of that. Rich and provinces have agreed in the Nature Pact that the Birds and Habitats Directives, international biodiversity targets and red lists are leading the efforts of the provinces. The Empire will only address the provinces if the agreements on a targeted commitment to these objectives of the means agreed for implementation are not met. With regard to the efforts of the individual provinces and the twelve provinces together, a good coordination of active species policy is primarily the responsibility of the provinces. The law assigns that responsibility as such in Article 1.12. The provinces take up that responsibility in practice. This happens, for example, with the further implementation of the Dutch Nature Network. By the way, that network is already largely limited. The basis for that is established. This is also the case with agricultural nature management and the protection of specific species. It is not up to the Empire to take over the joint responsibility of the provinces. This is essential, not only in this legislative proposal, but also in the whole design of nature policy. Of course, on the basis of monitoring the implementation of the Natural Pact, Rijk and provinces will discuss progress and whether adjustment is necessary. That brings me to the questions raised by Mrs Vos, who is already coming forward, and Mr Schnabel on system responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u83	Mr Schaap has also come forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u84	Just a little clarification. The Secretary of State states that the provinces per province have responsibility for completing the policy and also an explicit, joint, so-called country-covering, responsibility for that policy. That is not something the Empire should take over, because that is system responsibility, accountability to Brussels and so on. A country-covering policy is expected from the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u85	Yes, the provinces not only have the responsibility for nature protection in their province, but if it exceeds the province, they must agree on this together. That is explicitly included in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u86	I have another question about active species protection in conjunction with the programmatic approach. There's something wrong with that. I mention the example of the meadow birds, with which things are really bad. If you see that certain species are in bad shape and that the year is declining year by year, I think it is important to use a solid instrument to find the way up. That could be that programmatic approach. I find the answer rather noncommittal. The Secretary of State says it's an option and provinces are entitled to know for themselves. Isn't this where you have to say that there are goals you have to realize? This has to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u87	We make agreements with the provinces about these goals. I sent a letter to the Lower House last week, and I think the Upper House got it today. I have indicated that there is no easy solution to maintain pasture birds, let alone to allow them to grow again. It is therefore crucial that the same letter also contains the new design of agricultural nature management. Agricultural nature management is financed by the provinces and there are efforts that are covered, for example, by the Rural Development Programme. It is an activity that we can only do together with provinces. One of the spending targets of the EUR 30 million extra that we receive from the EU is the approach of grazing birds. We support that approach. We work together with the province of Friesland to set up a lecturerate at one of the colleges, so that knowledge can be transferred in the education system based on research to future farmers or people who will advise farmers in the future on how to integrate the protection of meadow birds into their business operations. There you can see that we are able to design an approach for which we do not necessarily need that tool of the programmatic approach, but we also simply use other instruments that can contribute to better protection of meadow birds. That is why I say that the programmatic approach is an instrument that gives the law, but there are many other possibilities. It is not for nothing that the provinces get much more responsibility for nature policy with this law. But they also have a much stronger financial responsibility. This financial responsibility makes a major contribution to the protection of meadow birds in particular. The objective you are pursuing is not necessarily achieved by assuming responsibility. On the contrary, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u88	These are all good intentions, but in the end the result counts. If I'm being very honest, you will continue your approach to meadow birds on what has been done so far. I do believe that a collective approach is an improvement. I am not opposed to that, but if you do not attach that to hard targets, results, tough measures and funding, we may say in five years' time: we have not made any progress. You're way too optimistic, like you're gonna be able to do it now. For I see a letter from you that contains no hard targets, no results commitments, no additional resources and no tough measures. The idea is, we're gonna have sex with these collectives now, and we're gonna be fine. It just isn't. I do ask for something other than what it says in your letter to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u89	Then I think Mrs. Vos is a little pessimistic. She rightly says that agricultural nature management as it was organised did not produce the desired results. That is exactly why we are organising this agricultural nature management in a different way, namely on the basis of collectives, where we also use the subsidy money much more focused in areas where you have the greatest chance of achieving good results. This new approach will start on 1 January. So I think it is too pessimistic to say in advance that that is not going to work. I think this is going to work much better. Farmers now take on a joint responsibility for nature conservation, landscape management and the protection of meadow birds. I have already indicated that, through European funds, we are working together with the sector to agree on the use of some of these resources, including for the protection of meadow birds. That is also necessary, because meadow birds are ultimately only protected at the moment when farmers also integrate it into their business operations. It costs money. It is not wrongly stated by the sector: we want to help achieve these social goals, but then you also have to help us on the other hand. I don't think that's unreasonable. Why is there no concrete results in that letter? Because I point out that I would like to, but it is not realistic at the moment. The state of the meadow birds has deteriorated so much that we need research to see how we can at least keep them up to date. We will therefore have Alterra investigate what is a healthy state of the meadow bird population, what measures are needed for this and how this can be integrated into the management of dairy farmers in particular. If we could achieve that result, then we did not achieve a satisfactory result very quickly. It would be wonderful if it could be even better, but this is already a step that I would be very happy to take if we could.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u90	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u91	I understand, Mr President, you are absolutely right. I would like you to commit to this new approach. We all know quite a lot about how to achieve better pasture birds. This has everything to do with more extensive farming, with better management of grasslands and so on. Before a great deal of money goes into agricultural nature management again, even if it is in a new way, you have to add very concrete results to it and re-require a number of measures. I believe that this programmed approach is an excellent vehicle for this. That's why I'm so insistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u92	What we know already requires integration into the management of many farms. So that's an adjustment to how they run their business. It is not always clear how this adjustment should be implemented, in order to ensure that it is achieved on a larger scale. It is not just a question of individual farmers adjusting their business practices, but of collective agreements when it comes to mowing later or not using pieces of land for a while, so that the grazing bird population can recover. That can only be done if you make joint agreements on this and if you support it. So that's what we're doing, including financially. That's why the plan of approach says that we need more knowledge about how you do it, so that you actually achieve a healthier population size. So not only individual measures, but also an integral consideration of what to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u93	What Mrs Vos just said about meadow birds is touching the decline of nature as a whole. Of course, we know what that's all about. In 2013, there was a report from the Environment and Infrastructure Council stating that agricultural management is a major failure, resulting in a deterioration of grazing birds. Does this bill offer more guarantees that agricultural management will be improved? If so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u94	In that letter you received today, you have been able to see that agricultural nature management is one of the things you can do on the basis of this bill; but it can also be done now. That's what you need in the end to make progress. You refer to that report from 2013. I have just told Mrs Vos that we have learned from this. You can see that in the letter you received today. Agricultural nature management is being changed. Let me give you an example: the number of agricultural nature management subsidies goes back from 14,000 to 40. This shows at a glance how great the change that is taking place: from all individual farmers who were all making individual efforts, to 40 collectives, who are working together and therefore jointly bearing that responsibility. That is a big change, which I expect will lead to more results. Are we gonna keep monitoring that? Of course. Would I like to make further agreements on the protection of meadow birds? Yes. That is why we are talking to the sector about the commitment of the 30 million, which we have explicitly stated that the protection of meadow birds is one of the spending targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u95	Yes, well, then I note that this protection is not sufficiently enshrined in the law. The Secretary of State merely says that we are going to make further agreements with the farmers and that we still need to achieve concrete results. The Secretary of State has high hopes for that. But he cannot say in advance that this law improves agricultural management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u96	You don't settle everything in this country with a law. This law provides the frameworks, on the basis of which you can better do nature protection. But then you have to fill that out. This is done through agricultural nature management and the approach of meadow birds. I outlined in the letter how complicated things are. I would find it very handsome if you could, by means of a law, restore pasture birds in the Netherlands. I can't. That's what you do with an approach, by making agreements with the parties. This requires changes in the way farmers run their farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u97	Finally, Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u98	A very brief observation. The Secretary of State says that's very difficult. I would like to see more active protection of meadow birds in the context. My group believes that this is missing. I have not yet heard a convincing reply from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u99	That disappoints me, because we are working on all sides to improve the protection of meadow birds. What we have to do is reverse the trend. The trend has been falling for years. There is a worrying decline in pasture status in certain species. If we do nothing now, if we fail to turn the tide now, we may be too late. So I feel the urgency. In today's letter, Mrs Teunissen was able to read how we are going to do something about it. However, there is still a plan of action to follow. That's coming in the course of next year. From there, we will continue to implement all these measures. We are doing this in the belief that this will produce more results, but it also requires the use of financial resources. Through the budget, money has been made available for this in the House of Representatives, but I also regard the meadow birds as one of the goals for which European money should be spent. That is what we are discussing with the sector, precisely because you have to do this together. You can't arrange this from The Hague, from above. That doesn't yield the result that the Party for Animals and I are looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u100	I can see that. The question in this connection is what is wrong with a programmatic approach that you share as a Empire with provinces and other administrative bodies. I thought that was the point of the comment. In the State Secretary's view, the programmatic approach is limited to the role that the provinces could play. I am not going to go into the meadowbird example, but if you have money and a plan of action, it will have to be implemented more or less programmatically, if you want all the relevant partners to be involved. We know, of course, the examples of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen and the Water Framework Directive, which shows that it can create much more organizational capacity than if you are going to work like a shot of hail that is a wrong metaphor in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u101	A programmatic approach is an option for the provinces, which they could use in that context. What I have pointed out is that I believe that we are working well with the sector in the field of pasture birds in order to achieve this protection. That's the kind of cooperation you need. And I wouldn't want to stare blindly at the instrument you're doing exactly that. I have confidence in the instruments we are using now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u102	Of course, but the point is that the provinces have an effort obligation. The Secretary of State will discuss system responsibility in a moment. I would like more clarity on the link between system responsibility and the commitment of the provinces. In my view, a programmed approach takes away exactly the light between system responsibility and the commitment of the provinces, as correctly laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u103	I'm gonna continue with the system responsibility. Mr Verheijen always focuses on the option for provinces, but provinces can set up a programmatic approach themselves. Mr Verheijen rightly points out that we can also use a programmatic approach at a rich level, but if you use a programmatic approach at a rich level, you actually take over some of the responsibility. I would be very reluctant to do so, because the agreement is to decentralise nature policy, so that the provinces are the first to be responsible. The term "effort obligation" does not cover them. They have committed themselves to the objectives of nature policy. I am very pleased that my predecessor was able to make that appointment with the provinces. Within a month, I'll see how well this cooperation goes. I would therefore like to continue on that line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u104	I wasn't going to debate every species with the Secretary of State, because then it's gonna be a long night. However, those meadow birds are a good hook to ask a question about the statistics. When it comes to pasture birds, the Chamber also looks closely at dairy farming. Especially from 1990, when these censuses took place, huge quantities of agricultural land were bought up in the ehs. That's where nature is decorated. Often, if not always, the decoration of that nature has not been very good for those meadow birds. The question is therefore whether we have an idea of how angry we should actually be at those dairy farmers. Perhaps we should also look angry at Natuurmonumenten or Staatsbosbeheer, who made of the meadow that was there, furnished nature with high and blue grass. Do we know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u105	I do not know whether I fully understand Mr Dercksen's question. I have just pointed out a few times that agricultural nature management has not so far produced the desired result. That's why we're organizing things differently now. I never find it so functional to wonder who you should be mad at. The reality is that in many places nature and agriculture exist side by side and also strongly influence each other. Sometimes they are very close to each other and the meadow birds also use land that is used for agriculture. It is precisely there that it is the challenge to see if we can bring these interests together and unite them. That doesn't always work immediately; of course it doesn't. After all, that dairy farmer too must keep his farm running and make money from it. This has translated into a business operation that has not always been beneficial to the grazing bird population. That is why, together with the sector, we are looking at what we can change about it and whether it helps to adapt business operations using European money and investment. My basic emotion is never that you're wondering who you should be mad at, but especially that you're wondering who you can work with to achieve the goals you want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u106	I feel like I need to put my question a little tighter. When we talk about the decline in pasture birds, we are looking here in particular at dairy farming. To what extent has the creation of new nature on agricultural land purchased for the ehs contributed to the decline of pasture birds? Do we know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u107	There's a lot we don't know. That's why we're gonna let Alterra do some research. For example, there are also signs that the number of predators is increasing and that this can also have a negative effect on the grazing bird population. All these things will have to be brought into view, precisely in order to be able to adopt a good approach. Then I really come to the questions about system responsibility. Let us be clear: even after decentralisation, the Empire holds responsibility for nature. The Empire remains responsible for international agreements and is accessible to them by other countries or the European Union. Moreover, the Empire continues to deal with matters of national, provincial and cross-border importance. Just a short while ago, the Programmatic Approach was called Nitrogen. This is the responsibility of the Empire to make policy frameworks in the first place. Look at the Structure Vision Infrastructure and Space and the Nature Vision, which is made on the basis of this bill. The Empire also offers legal frameworks with instruments for nature protection, for example the present bill. The Empire also directs the agreements with the provinces about the Natural Pact. The Empire also gives instructions to provinces, for example in the Decree general rules on spatial planning in relation to the Nature Network Netherlands. Sometimes the Empire itself holds the power to grant a licence or an exemption, for example with regard to defence activities, rural infrastructure or shellfish fishing. The Empire also lays down detailed rules on trade in animals, plants and products. That shows what responsibilities the Empire has in this system. Moreover, agreements have also been made with provinces on monitoring and evaluation. We are also monitoring the efforts of the provinces through inter-administrative supervision. I have already indicated that the cooperation is very good. There is a joint commitment to achieve the goals that we have also agreed internationally. On the basis of this monitoring, we are early if we do not seem to achieve the goals set. Then we can adjust together. The intention is, of course, to do so together. From a number of questions I tasted a bit: can we leave that to those provinces? The experience so far is that we can very well leave that to those provinces. We can also work very well with the provinces. We have a joint commitment to achieve the goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u108	I think we can leave it to provinces very well, but in the House of Representatives the following question has been asked. When monitoring takes place in the provinces, does it happen in a uniform way? Are data collected on the same basis, so that they are comparable? How far has the Secretary of State progressed with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u109	We're talking to the provinces about that. In not too long time this should lead to results. After all, it is essential, as Mr Kuiper also says, that you can compare provinces and that you have a uniform picture of developments at total level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u110	Can the Secretary of State give an instruction on that, too? Does he have any tools to make sure it happens that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u111	I repeat what I said earlier: each time it is assumed that it is necessary that we give instructions and orders from the Empire to the provinces and that we closely monitor them, as if they do not have the same intention as we do with regard to nature policy. They have the same intention and are committed to it. So we also make joint agreements on the way in which we shape the monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u112	Mrs. Fox. Moreover, after Mrs Vos, I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to continue his speech for some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u113	The Secretary of State says we're gonna monitor it and we're gonna make agreements together to achieve the goals. However, if the monitor shows that the favourable conservation status of certain important species is deteriorating, does the Empire say: provinces, do you have to take measures to improve it? Is that how the Empire enters the consultation? Is there indeed a result to be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u114	I also say to Mrs Vos: the joint commitment is to achieve that result. So we also address each other in the roles we have in it. Thinking in hierarchies doesn't fit in with the way we've organized it now. We have these goals together. We have a common understanding on how we deal with it. We have different responsibilities and address each other on those responsibilities. So if the results are disappointing, we'll discuss it with each other. It is not, as is a little behind Mrs Vos' question, that I call on the provinces. It doesn't work like that, and I wouldn't want it like that. I want us to feel that responsibility together. We can feel it. We also discuss this joint responsibility with each other. We also discuss with each other why it is disappointing and what we should do extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u115	Of course, that is the desirable situation. I also hope and think that in many situations that will work. In the end, however, it is important that there are clear frameworks. The Secretary of State must finally be able to justify it to Brussels. The Netherlands does not have to say: we are doing our best. The Netherlands must show that it is achieving results. The Secretary of State has to show results. That's my concern. If something does not happen somewhere, the Secretary of State sees that it is going wrong and the parties do not get out in the joint consultation, what does the Secretary of State have in his hands to ensure that the result is achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u116	Again, I say what I said: your starting point must not be pessimistic, you must not assume that we will not achieve the result. There are also a number of uniform protection regimes in this law, which apply everywhere in all provinces. Natura 2000 sites require the same level of protection everywhere. The basis for the construction of the Netherlands Nature Network is actually already in place, as I have just said. So we have already met a number of conditions. It now comes to management and active protection measures. We continuously monitor with each other what progress is. If that progress is insufficient, we will discuss with each other what we could do to adjust. Provinces have tools to adjust. They also have the vast majority of the budget. As a Empire, we have instruments for that, too. We can also discuss with each other where the instruments are inadequate and where they should be updated. We really do that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u117	I would now like to give you the opportunity to make a few meters with your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u118	That's nice, Mr. Chairman. Mr Schnabel asked if the IPO progress report Nature in the province met the requirements. The answer to that is complete: yes. This report shows that the provinces are making good progress. For example, it clearly indicates the progress of the Nature Network: as of 1 January 2012, 11,500 hectares have been acquired and 25,000 hectares have been set up. So, according to the agreement, you are well on your way to create 80,000 hectares of new nature in 2027. In doing so, the IPO also complies with the agreements made in the Natural Pact. This shows why there is reason to rely on the agreements that have been made. Mrs. Vos said she considers monitoring crucial. It advocates good, comparable reporting of provinces, disclosure of information and free access to databases. I have already said that I agree with that interest. We have already made agreements on this with the provinces. The bill regulates that data from fauna management plans are publicly available, so accessible to everyone. The same applies to statements of the discharge data. We will talk more about this later. In addition, private organisations provide data for databases. They remain the owner of that data and do not make it available free of charge, but they do deliver that data. We've already talked about the meadow birds. Mr Van Kesteren asked whether our type of protection policy is in sync with that of our neighbouring countries. Species policy is based in particular on the Birds and Habitats Directives, which apply not only to us but also to our neighbouring countries. In practice there are, of course, differences, which are often the result of different regional conditions. Just as well, there may be a difference between provinces in the way they fill it out. Mrs Meijer called it 'crazy', but it is not that crazy, because that is precisely the starting point for decentralisation. Decentralisation can lead to regional differences. We are also regionalising in order to do more justice to regional differences and to better reflect regional and local views on how best to achieve nature objectives in relation to other interests. This also promotes the recognition of policies and their acceptance by citizens and entrepreneurs in the area. In the case of provincial cross-border developments, the legislative proposal requiring coordination between the provinces, I have just indicated this in the exercise of both authorisation and exemption powers as well as active species protection. It is also important to note, as I did just now, that the legislative proposal provides for a clear set of standards, namely Natura 2000 and species protection, which ensures uniform application at that level. Finally, I come to Mrs Meijer's remark that there is a further deterioration of nature and that, therefore, nature legislation is not effective. Every two years, the PBL publishes progress on European biodiversity targets. In 2014, the PBL reported that, on average, the decline has stopped. However, these figures do not necessarily mean that nature is doing well. Many species and habitats are under pressure and many species are at risk of extinction. The Netherlands scored worse than most other EU countries. See, for example, the European Commission's recent State of the Nature. A strong legal protection regime, in addition to investing in active protection and restoration measures as agreed in the Nature Pact, is therefore of continued importance. A 2011 study by the PBL and Alterra shows that nature law is effective, along with effective policies. With the present law, we are taking a next step. I come to the second part of my reply on the protection regimes. Mrs. Vos asked for the preservation of the protected natural monuments. Others have also pointed this out, referring, among other things, to Mr Van Vollenhoven's report. The legislative proposal only protects nature areas that need specific additional protection under the Birds and Habitats Directives. These are the Natura 2000 sites. Protected natural monuments are protected by the current law on the basis of national policies, but these areas are already adequately protected by legal instruments other than the protection provided for in this bill. These are 64 sites, natural monuments which are not within Natura 2000 sites. These areas lie almost entirely within the planetaryly protected Nature Network Netherlands: 56 of these areas are fully and 4 partly. In total 96% of the natural monuments that are not located in Natura 2000 sites are within the Nature Network Netherlands. For this, the provinces can also offer spatial protection. The other rules of this bill and environmental legislation also provide protection for these areas. Moreover, the areas are often also owned by nature organisations, so you can be sure of their conservation. Moreover, the removal of the protection regime for protected natural monuments also reduces the regulatory burden by about 1.3 million a year. The most important argument here is, of course, that the vast majority of these areas are protected in a different way. Mrs Vos also asked: but why are not all those areas of the Nature Network protected in the same way as Natura 2000? The Nature Network is adequately protected through spatial planning legislation. Destination plans shall provide assurance, including the review of activities through the environmental authorisation. Environmental legislation and water legislation also provide safeguards. For Natura 2000 additional requirements apply, as these sites are essential for the European biodiversity objectives, in line with the requirements of the Birds and Habitats Directives. Mrs Vos also asked how there can be robust nature in a densely populated and intensively used land. Robust nature is essential in a densely populated country with a high environmental pressure. This requires legal frameworks, such as in this legislative proposal, but also environmental legislation such as the instruments for spatial planning. Environmental and water conditions must also be in order. We invest in this together with provinces and water boards, but the core of this bill is to ensure that it can exist side by side, that nature can exist alongside human activity, also in a densely populated country like ours. That must always be our ambition. I think Mrs Vos agrees with that. Several members also specifically asked for a response to Mr Van Vollenhoven's report. That report, entitled "Monuments: Inspiration for nature!', gives some interesting insights for further strengthening nature. It can also contribute to the development of the National Parks programme set up by my predecessor, in which, together with provinces and other partners, we try to achieve a number of national parks new style, with an international allure. A new standard is being developed. It's being tested in pilot areas. The committee's recommendations will be involved in the programme and the pilots. This does not apply to the recommendation to maintain a category of natural sites of national importance, referred to as national monuments, which includes not only Natura 2000 sites but also protected natural monuments. That recommendation runs counter to this bill and puts areas in one heap that have different backgrounds. I have already indicated in the letter to the House of Representatives that I am taking over most of the recommendations of Mr Van Vollenhoven's committee, except for that one. I have just discussed in detail the difference between the old natural monuments and Natura 2000 and the fact that the vast majority of the remainder is covered by the Netherlands Nature Network. Mrs Vos points out that landscape has a place in the bill, but that there is no obligation for provinces. She is asking me to monitor this carefully and, if necessary, to adjust it. This discussion is similar to the one we have just had. Mr Schnabel also rightly pointed out the special experience of landscapes. When you ask people who have visited the Netherlands what they think of, they are often the vast polders, with green meadows with cows in them and water in between. That's worth an incredible amount, too. The nature governance agreement states that landscape policy is not a national task. It is up to the provinces to conduct policy on this issue or not. In practice, the provinces already do that. As we are all proud of the landscapes in our country, the provinces are of course very proud of the landscapes in their own province. They generally pursue policies to preserve those former national landscapes, which is why it is not necessary to include an obligation on them. However, the bill that landscape policy is part of the national landscape vision, in article 1.5, regulates that landscape policy may be part of the provincial nature vision, in article 1.7, that the PBL monitors the development of the landscape, in article 1.9, and that the province can give special landscapes the predicate of special provincial landscape. You will find this in Article 1.12. If the monitoring shows that important landscapes are under pressure, we will, of course, also discuss this with the provinces to see what we need to do. Mr Van Kesteren drew attention to the involvement of business in the development of management plans. All management plans shall be drawn up with the participation of direct stakeholders. They are mostly drawn up by provinces. When drawing up management plans, the measures shall be designed to take account of external impacts. That's a lot of work. It does not, of course, mean that everyone concerned is always satisfied. In a number of areas, for example, there is an inevitable need for re-attachment. This has an effect on the surrounding agricultural land. Mr Dercksen asked why private landowners should not be allowed to manage nature freely and report on it. The Management Plan addresses the requirements of the Natura 2000 Habitats Directive. It is therefore necessary to establish the management plan by the province. However, landowners also play an important role in drawing up that management plan. Their input is of great importance, but it is clearly the province's responsibility. Ms Meijer asked for Mr Smaling's motion on the search for buffer zones around Natura 2000 sites, which was adopted in 2008. She asked me to take that motion to me and look creatively at its possible implementation. The integration of Natura 2000 sites is, as I have pointed out a number of times, the responsibility of the provinces. In some cases, proper management of these areas requires adjustments outside those areas. In practice, this leads to all kinds of initiatives, such as nature farmers, where there is room for local production and ecological agriculture, as the motion also pointed out. That appeals to me very much. Where we can play a role in supporting this, we will, but I say again that this is primarily the responsibility of the provinces. Mrs Vos asked about the exemption for the fight against nuisance. She fears that it can be used too widely. Mrs Teunissen also asked for this. The legislative proposal ensures that the requirements laid down in the Birds Directive and the Habitats Directive are met when granting exemption. Those demands have been taken over one-on-one in this bill. The European Court has held that combating pollution and noise in cities by birds falls within the scope of the Birds Directive. The level of protection in the Birds Directive is leading. The Animal Party asked for the enforcement of the ban on intentional disturbances of birds having a significant impact on the conservation status. That ban has been taken over from the Birds Directive. The enforcement of that provision in practice is a matter of customisation. Instruments such as approved codes of conduct and guides of provinces can be helpful in this respect. A similar question was about the protection of seals and wadbirds on the Wadden Sea. Tourists sometimes disturb seals and wadbirds, mostly unintentionally. Wadden birds are protected through the species protection regime and the Natura 2000 regime. Seals are also protected through the Natura 2000 regime, the species protection regime and the duty of care laid down in this bill. I was just about to go hunting, but I see Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u119	I can't wait! I would like to touch briefly on the issue of the killing or distressing of animals, to which the Secretary of State has just referred. I'm talking about the deliberate killing. I mentioned the example of the Wadden region because in practice it is very difficult to assess whether something is deliberately disturbed or disturbed or not. On what basis can the government maintain well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u120	That is why that provision is so written down. Set-up or will is obvious, of course. If you are deliberately disturbed, disturbed or killed, it is punishable. Then we'll be able to enforce. However, "intentionally" also means that you could have known that what you do leads to disruption or distress of the animals. Then you can be dealt with for that, too. For example, it is difficult for tourists who get too close to the animals in their enthusiasm when the mudflats are dry. This has been the subject of discussion in the past. To what extent do you have to act directly in enforcement? Most of the time, of course, it's not meant to be by those people. In fact, they often come there out of love for the animals that live on the mudflats. For this, it helps to inform people much better, so that they can know what the effect of their behavior can be on the animals they find there. That's what I said. That's what provinces can do, for example. They can play a role in educating people better, so that they themselves pay more attention to their behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u121	But I still do not understand the added value of the word 'intentionally'. Just the same applies to the rule of killing or distressing animals that are currently in the law. This must also be properly assessed, and good agreements and good information must be made. So my question is still: what is the added value of the word 'intentionally', which actually makes it even more vague?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u122	No, it makes it more clear that it must have happened deliberately or someone could have known that their behaviour would cause animal distress or disturbance, because that is usually what this is about. This also makes it clear to the enforcers that they should not punish any distress or disturbance immediately with a fine. Sometimes people are not aware that they disturb animals with their behaviour. There was a lack of clarity in the past. That is why it is now in the proposal. I'll join the hunt. This theme has led to a lot of discussion, in the Lower House, here and in society. This has often been the case in the past. During the creation of the Flora and fauna law, hunting is limited to five wild species. That also led to discussion. Now there is a lot of discussion, primarily about hunting these five wild species: hare, rabbit, pheasant, wild duck and wood pigeon. The discussion is a little less about population management by fauna management units and the fight against damage. For this, I can see that there is a little more support for it. There are very different views about hunting. I agree with my predecessor, Mr O'Donnell, that I was asked to kill animals only if there is a social need to do so. This also applies to the hunting of the five wild species mentioned: it must serve a social purpose. These wild species must be in a good state of conservation, partly because of the fact that they are the intrinsic value of the animal. In hunting this goal is the maintenance of a reasonable wildlife in the hunting field and the prevention of damage. This is laid down in the legislative proposal in Article 3.20, third paragraph, I say to Mr Schnabel, who asked for a commitment to withdraw the articles on species that are freely huntable in the transition to the Environment Act. I don't see any reason for that. After all, it is now clearly stated that the social objective must be to maintain a reasonable wildlife. The bill thus strengthens a socially responsible and transparent practice of hunting. I think this is important given the context of the public debate. With the proposed adjustments, hunting in the Netherlands can play its own role in wildlife management. The bill also ensures that hunting is at the service of the region by requiring that it be hunted according to the fauna management plan and the requirement that hunters join wild game management units.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u123	The Secretary of State is now coming up with a considerable amount of skill. You could say he's making a U-turn. First of all, it is unacceptable for animals to be hunted without social benefit or necessity, and we are going to stop it. Now the five species become quite huntable and the Secretary of State says: for the benefit of society, we believe that wildlife remains reasonable. That is, of course, strange, because before that time it could have been found. A year ago, the Secretary of State's minister said that there should not be hunting without purpose or necessity, so that list of five species is deleted. Wasn't there a need for a reasonable wildlife scene at the time? In this sense, nothing has changed, so it is very strange that the Secretary of State should now come up with an ID for maintaining the hunting of these five species. Of these, he and his fellow party members said earlier that it is unacceptable that these five species should be shot. Can the Secretary of State clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u124	It is not surprising in the first place. It is strange that Mr Koffeman thinks he is quoting my predecessor, but he is not doing that right. She said exactly the same thing as I do now, namely that it is only allowed when it serves a social purpose. The bill regulates three types of yacht. The first is the hunting of those five species, which can be assumed to be generally a reasonable wild species. However, this must be supported by the fauna management units with a plan for the management of fauna. The second species of hunting is population management. In this context, hunting should only be carried out if it has been demonstrated in advance that this is necessary because of wildlife. The third species of hunting is damage control. An exemption may be granted for this purpose. The role of the fauna management units is crucial. These are no longer just hunters, because according to the bill, they must include civil society organisations whose aim is to protect nature and animals. That ensures that that look is taken into account when drawing up the fauna management plans. Thanks to these legal provisions, these organisations have a very strong position in this discussion. For all types of yacht, there must be a fauna management plan. It is therefore necessary to look at the wildlife. On this basis, it must be substantiated that hunting can and can be done. This thus guarantees the social objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u125	This contrasts with what the fellow party members of the Secretary of State said in the note Beautiful Netherlands, namely that the hunting of the five species is being removed. It is also contrary to what his predecessor said, namely that hunting for these five species could be strictly defined at the most. That strict clause therefore always concerned a plan in advance. The Secretary of State knows better than anyone that only a count takes place afterwards. That's a big difference, no matter what he knows. Still, he's acting like there's no difference. That's very strange. I think it is also unacceptable, because we cannot test a law when we are faced with a diametrically opposed view of what the minister's predecessor in the original scheme of the law intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u126	Mr Koffeman is right that the law has been amended in the House of Representatives. My predecessor responded positively to that, because she thought it was an improvement on the bill that was there. I agree with her that the social goals are better secured, or at least in a more enforceable and enforceable way, than in the original legislative proposal. Civil society organisations are thus given a position in the fauna management units. I shall say a little more about this, because it also gives them a very strong position at the table where we are talking about the implementation of a plan for the management of fauna. Now it has not been said: you have to make an exact discharge plan in advance and count exactly how many animals you are shooting. This would have become very complex in the implementation, particularly for enforcement. It is now said that you need to draw up a plan for the management of fauna in advance in the fauna management unit, in which civil society organisations are also represented. That is a condition, because the law states that hunting must take place on the basis of the fauna management plan. That plan must justify why hunting, including on the five species, is justified in the context of population management. That is how it is now enshrined in the law and thus the social goals are secured. I repeat what my predecessor said, namely that it is unacceptable to kill animals if this is not a social objective. So you can't just kill for pleasure with this law. Whether people enjoy it, I can't decide for them, but with this law is guaranteed that only for social purposes can be killed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u127	Finally, Mr Koffeman, briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u128	The Secretary of State says that the social goals are guaranteed and the public support is secured by the introduction of civil society organisations in the fauna management units. The point is that this is not secured at all. They may join there without obligation, but a proportional representation is not secured. How's the Secretary of State gonna take care of that bail? And if it turns out that there are fewer conservationists, animal protectors and scientists than hunters in the fauna management units, how is he going to get this straightened out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u129	Mr Koffeman will then have to look at the legislative proposal that he undoubtedly has on his table. It says that there are fauna management units that establish a plan for the sustainable management of populations, for the control of damage and for the pursuit of hunting and that all three must be carried out in accordance with the plan for the management of fauna. So if that plan isn't there, you can't comply with Section 3.12, first paragraph, of the law. Furthermore, the law states that in the fauna management unit there are the hunters and civil society organisations that aim to ensure the sustainable management of populations of wild animals in the region, to which the area of activity of the fauna management unit belongs. It is up to provinces to indicate exactly how they want to achieve that composition of those governments. These civil society organisations, of course, have a very strong position thanks to this article of law. At a time when their attitude is not sufficiently taken into account in the discussions, they can in any case call on the province in which they operate. Then it is also up to the province to decide whether to grant an exemption for population management or damage control. In the absence of an agreed fauna management plan, the province will generally not grant that exemption. Moreover, these civil society organisations must be in the management of that fauna management unit, otherwise there is no such thing as a unit of management of fauna under this law. If we do not cooperate properly and if we do not reach a compromise, these civil society organisations will have a very heavy leverage. Why should they participate if there is not a serious conversation? Of course, they only participate if a serious conversation is held there. The participation of these civil society organisations is necessary in order to achieve a fauna management plan that complies with the rules of this law. In this way, the influence of these civil society organisations and those nature conservation organisations is firmly anchored in this law. For that it is not even relevant with exactly how much you are on that board or how many hunters are on that board, because it is not about the voting relationships in the board. This law says that these civil society organisations must be involved, otherwise the fauna management plan cannot be created. That gives you a very strong position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u130	That's almost Ruttian what I hear from you now, wiping a pretty huntable rabbit out of the top hat. So, basically, everyone in the field saw it wrong. Everyone in the field has seen that there are species that can be hunted, ridden in by the VVD. Your party was always opposed to that. Can you explain to me how it is that everyone in the field is telling what Mr Koffeman is saying and what I would like to support and that you need a very long and complicated explanation to deny it? Are you saying it was actually a very wrong law and I'm glad the VVD corrected that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u131	It has been corrected by an amendment by two political groups in the Lower House, namely those of the VVD and the PvdA. They indicated that the original legislative proposal would lead to major implementation and enforcement problems and to significant administrative burdens. And that's correct. They have explored how to better safeguard social interests. I find it annoying when Mr Dercksen says that he could not quite follow, but it is not very complicated. Article 3.12 of the Act states that all three forms of hunting must be carried out in accordance with the fauna management plan. A fauna management plan can only be created by a fauna management unit in which several civil society organisations participate. This also means that we have to work together in this administration. If we do not get out of it, civil society organisations will be able to ring the bell with the province, but they also have a very strong means of power, namely that if they no longer participate in that fauna management unit, then there will be no valid fauna management plan, which is the basis for the exemption that the province must grant and which is the basis for hunting. So that gives these civil society organisations a very strong position in those fauna management units. That is why I believe that this has been properly secured in the law through that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u132	The question was how can it be that everyone in the field gives a very different interpretation to it than you do. You haven't answered that question yet. All those people in the field obviously didn't understand it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u133	If I've always found something attractive about the First Chamber, it's that people don't usually take part in this kind of social hypes, but just look at what exactly is in the law. What is in this law, I have just explained to you, and I do not think there is a pin in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u134	Do I hear the Secretary of State say that civil society organisations have a veto? That is what I understand from his words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u135	My approach is, and Mr Van Kesteren has also chosen it in his speech, that we have outlined the framework in the law, namely that there must be a management unit of fauna, in which there are several civil society organisations alongside the hunters, and that they must come out together. That's actually what the law says. But, yes, a law can never dictate: you must come out together. Well, if one does not come out together, in most cases the problem will be returned to the province where the communication is: we did not come out together, it is up to you to decide. That is the most appropriate way. This has been set up in this way to ensure that there is pressure so that one comes out together. The interests are opposed and precisely because of how it is now formulated in the law, there is a pressure on the participants in the fauna management unit to come out together. Otherwise, there is no plan for the management of fauna, and that is not attractive to anyone. This is not attractive to hunters or civil society organisations, because they are then handed over to others who make the decision for them. The best thing is to reach a compromise, so we can work it out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u136	I have a further question on this because I referred to this in my contribution. Would the Secretary of State care to comment on the idea of asking not only civil society organisations but also scientists, for example, to take part in these fauna management units, so that a more thorough balance can be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u137	It's up to the provinces how they'd want to put together exactly those fauna management units. The provinces can also make further demands. We have included a sort of minimum variant in the law, indicating that hunting keepers and civil society organisations are plural, so there have to be more than two plurals in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u138	I would like to return to those five species on the wild list. The Secretary of State says that even those five species will only be hunted if there is a social purpose, a social interest. However, I do not find that social interest reflected in the law. You can kill these five species, worry and drive them away, and then one of the goals is to maintain wildlife. I would think that alternative approaches are also possible. There are other ways to do that. Then why do you have to shoot animals for that? Another purpose is to prevent damage. I would also like to say that there are many other ways of preventing damage. I do not find these alternatives in any way in this bill. I would think that a social goal simply amounts to finding a responsible way of ensuring that damage is prevented. In this case, however, it is more used as an ID to go hunting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u139	Mrs Vos is right, for example, that there are all kinds of alternative methods, sometimes alternative methods of hunting, which are not all equally pleasant. What this bill does is to frame the hunt within the set social goals. That is the objective. Of these five species, it is indicated that there is a wild game legitizing that you manage that wild game through that hunting, and it has to be established in advance that it is necessary to hunt for other species in the context of population management. Those are actually the two different approaches contained in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u140	Shortly, Mrs. Vos, because you also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u141	I understand, Mr. Chairman. I still find it strange that the Secretary of State makes a distinction between these five species and all other species. Why not a single regime, where you always have to show that it is absolutely necessary to hunt and there is no alternative? The Secretary of State says it should always serve a social purpose. He should have simply opted for a single regime in which, in all cases, the same strict conditions of exemption have to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u142	In fact, this bill goes through the existing practice of the five species, but adds to it a number of social conditions. It says that hunting for these five species must also be carried out in accordance with the fauna management plan and that the fauna management plan must be drawn up by the fauna management unit. This includes civil society organisations. It is, of course, a major change where hunting is concerned that civil society organisations whose aim is to protect nature and animals are involved in deciding on the hunting of those five species as well. Previously this was not so; the hunt was just opened and that was it. Now these civil society organisations can take part in the decision on the fauna management plan on the basis of which hunting takes place. While hunting for the five species remains as it was, this bill guarantees that social objectives are linked to them. It is no longer purely for pleasure or for exploitation; it is also the social purpose of managing wildlife. That's secured by this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u143	Now I give the Secretary of State the opportunity to continue his reply for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u144	I have to take a look, Mr President, because I have probably said all the necessary things in the interruptions about hunting which I had on paper. I had not yet mentioned that the hunters should also report their discharge results to the fauna management unit. This is set out in Article 3.13. This makes for ex-post control. It is also important to note that the fauna management units are obliged to disclose the fauna management plan and an overview of its implementation. Mr Koffeman claimed that the fauna management units consist mainly of direct stakeholders in the discharge. I have indicated that I do not think that is the case. It is important to mention that the fauna management plan should be underpinned by trend censuses and should be approved by the province. That approval decision shall then be open to appeal and appeal. These are additional safeguards which have been built into the process and which I had not mentioned in the debate on the interruption. The province may also, on the basis of Article 3.12 (9), lay down rules on the decision-making within the fauna management unit. Mr Verheijen asked for a slight national agreement between the parties, with a view to a wide-ranging governance of the fauna management units. Mrs Vos asked about proportional representation and Mrs Meijer asked for further requirements for the management. I think I have given that ample consideration. I have indicated that the provinces have the opportunity to make demands on the composition of the administration and on the way in which decisions are taken. Because of the way this is secured in the law, there is a stick behind the door to reach agreement within the fauna management unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u145	Mr Verheijen, I have just said that I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to continue his reply. So if you could just hold up your question for a moment: very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u146	Then I come to Mr Schnabel's question as to whether I can ask the provinces to encourage the administration to have an independent chairman. I really think that's the responsibility of the provinces. They may make demands on the composition of the Board, including the quality or background of the Chair. I have already referred to Mr Schnabel's question on trend counts. They shall be made public through the fauna management plans. This makes it more transparent, which contributes to public support. I have already dealt with Mr Van Kesteren's compromises. The PvdD asked for a novelle to get this piece out of the bill. I suppose I've argued well that I don't see much in that. This part has been carefully weighed, also in the Lower House. The PvdD has also said that hunting in protected Natura 2000 sites is possible. This can only be done if the hunting does not lead to deterioration of the quality of the area or to significant disturbance of the species for which the area has been designated. This shall be assessed when granting the individual Natura 2000 hunting authorisation or the management plan of the site. With that I have finished the part hunting and I come to the part about integration into the Environment Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u147	In the meantime, may I ask how much longer do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u148	I'm at the fourth block now, and then another fifth. As far as I'm concerned, Mr President, we can do it quickly. But it's not just me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u149	Fine, thank you. I'm doing my best, as you can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u150	Sure. I appreciate that very much, although, I think, it is not up to me to say anything about it. Several speakers raised issues relating to the relationship between this bill and the Environment Act, in which this bill should be integrated at a later date. Mr Van Kesteren wondered whether this bill was so urgent. Do we have to discuss it now? Mr Dercksen also expressed hesitations, and so there were more people. For example, Mr Schaap asked whether it would be wise not to raise this bill to law now but to integrate it into the Environment Act at once. Let me first say that the continuation of this legislative proposal is really necessary in order to achieve the agreements with provinces on decentralisation in the short term. This can also be read by Members of Parliament in the letter they received from the IPO. In that, the provinces really insist on this Chamber doing so. It is also desirable to simplify nature legislation in the short term and to provide for a more planned, coherent and transparent exercise of hunting harm control and population management. We've just talked about this. I can also reassure the Chamber. A number of members suggested that in the transition to the Environmental Law this Nature Protection Act should be completely adapted. That is not the case. The legislative proposal is already fully aligned with the integration into the Environmental Law in terms of concepts, instruments and procedures. The standards are a matter of European law. Neither will they change the instruments and procedures after they have passed into the Environment Act. This law will pass one-on-one into the Environment Act, which it is fully prepared for. You can, so to speak, lower her down like that. The transition is therefore not accompanied by an adjustment of the rules, nor by additional burdens, as Mr Schaap feared. Mrs Vos also does not have to fear that the level of protection will then be called into question again, because that level will simply be maintained at the time of the transition from the Nature Protection Act to the Environment Act. In this context, it has been asked whether the nature supplement decision to be taken will also be placed before the Chamber. Mr Verheijen and Mr Schnabel asked for this. The Cabinet will share with the Chamber the draft of the AMvB which brings nature law under the Environment Act. Mr Schnabel also asked which elements will be involved in an evaluation of the law in the transition to the Environment Act. Will, for example, the species that can be hunted and the participation of civil society organisations in the fauna management units be included? The starting point is that this law is about to pass one-on-one into the Environment Act. Within the system of the Environment Act, most rules come only in AMvB's of that law and not in the law itself. That's the system of the Environment Act. When drawing up that nature-AMvB, I will take into account the experience gained with the Nature Protection Act. The topics of species huntable and the participation of civil society organisations in fauna management units are of course part of this. That's an appropriate time to take another look at that. Mr Schaap, referring to the integration of environmental legislation into the Environment Act, assumes that it would therefore be a good idea for nature policy to move from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to that of Infrastructure and the Environment. He asked me about my opinion on this. I am not in favour of that right now. It's not the issue now either. As Members know, these are decisions taken at the time of cabinet formations. As Mr Schaap himself pointed out, there are many interfaces between the areas of agriculture and nature. They have a lot to do with each other. Integrity helps, I can assure him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u151	A brief interruption, Mr Dercksen. Just one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u152	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I only need one. My question is about the implementation of this law in the Environment Act. I think the Minister is running through that very quickly. He says it goes one-on-one. But the experience I have in the meantime with the Environment Act is that it has a very comprehensive approach, whereas we are actually talking here about a very differentiated and fragmented sectoral approach. The Minister says that implementation in the Environment Act is going to be one-on-one, but I do need a broader explanation and explanation than the Minister is now giving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u153	That is why I indicated that the Nature Protection Act has already been drawn up, actually on the basis of the frameworks of the Environment Act. This has already been taken into account in terms of concepts and procedures. It can therefore simply be placed underneath, because it fully meets the requirements laid down in the Environmental Law. The Environment Act is, of course, more of a framework law, as Mr Derksen rightly says. Underneath it, you have specific regulations. This one is already fully prepared for that. Mr Schaap indicated that he was in favour of the integration of the nature test into the environmental permit. According to him, the phasering of tests doesn't fit in with that. The law provides for the combination of the nature test with the other tests at issue in the environmental permit. There is one point of contact and one permit. The General Environmental Law Act does offer the possibility of a phased environmental permit. That is what Mr Schaap is referring to. So that possibility already exists. She's independent of the bill on nature conservation. Entrepreneurs have strongly insisted on this, because they want to avoid all kinds of expensive tests, while one test can already show that the implementation of a proposed project cannot be carried out and then they have to start again. The Environment Act also offers such facilities. Mr Schaap also asked whether the intrinsic value fit into the Environmental Law. I'd almost say this was a new attempt on his part. The purpose of the bill on nature conservation is one of the contents of the supplemental law proposal. This will provide for the transition from the future Nature Protection Act to the future Environment Act. The intrinsic value is part of this. I don't see any problems in that regard. Mr Schaap will see that there are also target provisions in the Environmental Law. Its elaboration takes place in the Nature Supplementary Act, which we are yet to discuss in both chambers. Of course, Mr Schaap will be able to stir up the discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u154	Mr Schaap, I too would like to allow one interruption, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u155	I'll come back to the intrinsic value. So it's part of the Environment Act. Is that value then equivalent to other values involved in the balancing processes? Is full proportionality also applicable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u156	The idea is to try to balance different values through the Environment Act. This law should allow for development, but at the same time guarantee protection of what is vulnerable. That's exactly the idea behind the Environment Act. Mr Schaap will see that there are target provisions, including in the area of the environment. Those provisions actually play the same kind of role in that bill as the intrinsic value. They're perfectly compatible. I come to Mr Schnabel's last question on this subject. He said that the Environment Act gave the Empire the opportunity to draw up instructional rules for provinces. He asked why they weren't in this bill. The provinces and the Empire have made good agreements. That's what I said at the beginning of my answer. I mentioned the governance agreement and the Natural Pact. Furthermore, we keep a finger on the wrist through monitoring. That's enough. That's why there are no instructions in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u157	Mr Kuiper may intervene briefly, after Mr Derksen and Mr Schaap have done so briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u158	New tasks will be assigned to municipalities in connection with this natural law and the Environment Act. There's going to be a licensing regime. They should also ensure monitoring and enforcement. There are particular concerns about enforcement. The Mans Committee spoke a few years ago about an enforcement deficit. What means are going to municipalities to properly implement this enforcement, supervision and licensing regime, in accordance with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u159	Provinces, municipalities and I are talking about that. We've already made court agreements. At the beginning of next year, we will continue to look at this. I indicated in the conversation that the enforcement tools that the Empire had are now decentralised. They're in the provinces. The municipalities and the provinces are talking to each other to coordinate how they are going to carry out this enforcement task and how they are going to organise it. I am not concerned about the decentralisation of the enforcement tasks of the Empire. There are three of us at the table and we have to investigate the exact meaning of this for municipalities. The intention is to make agreements on this matter before spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u160	I said you could ask one short question, Mr Kuiper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u161	I have prepared a motion on this, so I think the answer is important. In the end, of course, it is the result for the municipalities themselves and the joint result that this enforcement really gets up to date. There are now concerns about this. It is important that municipalities are sufficiently able to carry out that enforcement task. Can you promise that that will happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u162	We really need to discuss this with each other. We have, of course, decentralised the means of enforcement. I would like to point out that the enforcement tasks previously in the Empire, but now partly in the municipalities, are not of such magnitude. It is more in the coordination between provinces and municipalities. There are three of us at the table, and we have made procedural arrangements, as I said. Can I say, therefore, that I am a little surprised at the letter from the VNG that was sent to the Chamber on this matter? She did not mention those procedural arrangements, which are precisely the agreements that we have made with the three of us. We're going to do some research and get together in February, I think, again at the table to make good appointments. Can I promise that we'll come to good agreements in the end? The Empire no longer has to transfer a budget, because that has already happened, to the provinces. We still have to make good agreements on that with the three of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u163	Mrs Vos, you may also ask one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u164	Thank you very much. My question concerns the enforcement task that has indeed been transferred to the provinces because of decentralisation. I am not so positive about this, at least I see major enforcement deficits. The Dutch Food and War Authority has hardly been able to enforce the legislation because there is absolutely too little capacity. Secretary of State says everything's gonna be okay. Does he, as a representative of the Empire, also assume system responsibility? Is he saying that there must be proper enforcement and that the Empire will ensure that sufficient resources are made available should the existing resources prove inadequate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u165	Those are two different questions. The second question is: do you issue a blank cheque in advance in case enforcement fails? Of course we do not. That won't surprise Mrs. Vos. Her first question is more important to me. Do we see this as a joint responsibility? This is explicitly one of the points we are constantly discussing. The law already contains a strong protection regime. That offers all the necessary guarantees. In Natura 2000 sites and Nature Network The Netherlands you are simply not allowed to engage in activities that harm nature. It is also about enforcement in and around those areas. We have decentralised the means of enforcement. There has also been substantial additional budget to the provinces: 200 million extra. I trust that this will be enough for that enforcement. Of course, we remain in contact with each other on this topic. As I think I said at the beginning, we are committed together. We see it as a shared responsibility, so we discuss everything we see in it. I come to a number of additional issues, so to speak. Mr Schaap stressed the importance that all the parties concerned should implement nature policy in an open and joint manner, in mutual strengthening with other spatial interests. This was, of course, mainly about management. I very much agree with Mr Schaap. That won't surprise him. It is up to provinces to choose which approach and instruments they implement. Equal treatment of all parties is the starting point. That is what the Empire and the provinces have agreed in the government agreement nature and in the Nature Pact. As Mr Schaap rightly pointed out, both transparency and cooperation are very welcome in this respect, as this will enable management to be properly implemented. Mrs Vos pointed out the enforcement by the NVWA. The enforcement of the species protection is not only done by the NVWA, but also by the National Agency for Entrepreneurship Netherlands. That is an important point. The enforcement of species protection is thus transferred to the provinces, including resources. They should be sufficient for that. Mrs Vos, Mrs Meijer and Mr Kuiper asked about the use of the fitness check. Won't the level of protection fall? That is clearly not my commitment. If you say that you would like to be flexible with the rules, everyone thinks: that is, of course, aimed at a lower level of protection. I understand that that image may arise, but that is expressly not the case. We want to maintain the level of protection; we absolutely do not want to interfere with it. Sometimes we can use a slightly more flexible interpretation, precisely to make that protection effective. It is our commitment to do so within the existing directives. The European Commission is still working on the evaluation. I do not think it is very logical to say in advance that no matter what comes out of that evaluation, you should not change a word to that directive. It is our commitment to keep the directive as it is and to find flexibility in implementation. If it is necessary to amend the directive, we are fine with it, as long as it does not lead to a lower level of protection. The point is that we maintain the level of protection. Mrs. Vos asked about the protection of marine fish. She was not satisfied with the protection through the Fisheries Act and the European fisheries policy. She would like us to keep that protection under review, inform the Chamber about it and, if necessary, bring sea fishing under this bill. The existing interplay of rules already provides an adequate level of protection for fish. New policy developments are taking place which provide for further improvement. I refer to the implementation of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. In this context, for example, limitations are placed on soil-related activities. Mr Verheijen asked for an agreement with the municipalities on the implementation and possible stagnation of the permit procedures. Mr Van Kesteren said that people should be prepared for implementation. Mr Schnabel asked about the progress of developments in the municipalities in supporting implementation. I just indicated that I recently sat around the table with the provinces and the municipalities. We have noted that the process of knowledge transfer is already underway. We shall continue to do so. Furthermore, we are showing exactly what it lacks. By February at the latest, we will agree on a solution. Ms Vos asked if the cabinet was prepared to monitor and evaluate enforcement. I want to link the evaluation and monitoring of enforcement with the evaluation of this law. My predecessor has indicated that evaluation of the law is important when it makes sense, namely when there is sufficient experience of the law. I expect that will be the case by the end of 2017. In this way, I can take the evaluation of the law, including enforcement, with me in preparing the nature regulation before bringing it under the Environmental Act. Mr Schnabel asked how the evaluation and monitoring were related to the reports of the Planning Office for the Environment referred to in Article 1.9. The PBL draws up a learning evaluation of the Natural Pact, which focuses, inter alia, on active species protection by the provinces. The legislative proposal contains the regular reports required by law and drawn up by the PBL. These relate to the biennial natural balance and the four-year nature exploration. These reports therefore cover the whole range of nature policy and are complementary to the evaluation of the Nature Pact. Mr Kuiper said that the PBL should not be the only body to collect and analyse information in accordance with Article 1.9. The Planning Office for the Environment is an independent body that analyses available information and collects additional information if necessary. I attach great importance to that. Research is also carried out by Wageningen University, Alterra and IMARES. That whole ensures an objective data collection. It also ensures that we can use comparable data. The Party for Animals asked how a judge can test the exemption for damage control by land users. In criminal matters, the courts may review the exemptions in the light of the law and the directives. Mr Koffeman further asked why the law did not provide for only guns to be shot and not hail. It's hard to kill smaller animals with a bullet gun at once. This means that animals are at risk of getting shot and injured, but they are still alive. The use of hail rifles is allowed, because in these cases it is more effective and reduces the risk of unnecessary suffering of animals. Mr Koffeman asked for a response to the Council's opinion on the environment to move away from nature as a patchwork. The Council for the Environment recommends connecting nature areas; this strengthens nature. This advice supports the formation of the Netherlands Nature Network, where an area-oriented approach is central and also a connection between these areas. That is precisely the essence of the Nature Network. Mr Dercksen says: there are too few green boas, extraordinary investigators; what good is this law? I also think it is important for green boas to be able to do their job properly. They are employed by land-based organizations such as Natuurmonumenten and Staatsbosbeheer. My predecessor has agreed with the Minister of Security and Justice on the green boas. It has been agreed, among other things, that EZ will use additional resources to train green boas, around €100,000 per year. In addition, enforcement priorities are identified in conjunction with the provinces. That's a shared responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore going through all the questions, otherwise there will be someone on the agenda who will have been asked about this bill in the first term. I hope this will contribute to the further development of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u166	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the Secretary of State for his reply. I am impressed by his knowledge, bearing in mind that he has been holding this portfolio for a very short time. It seems to me that this must be said here. In this case! I asked a few questions, which he answered adequately. In particular, the question of how to see the balance of interests around the intrinsic value and how it is guaranteed has been adequately answered. I very much agree with his approach to how to deal with disputes around hunting, for example. We feel the same way. I think the polder model around the hunt should definitely get opportunities. You're not surprised that I like to endorse that. I found his answer on the integration of the Environment Act to be correct. I am not quite convinced yet, because we are facing a far-reaching process. Of course, it sounds sufficient to say that you can introduce it seamlessly, but I would still like to think about it and discuss it further in my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u168	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I have been impressed by the expertise with which he has done this and by the great involvement in the very broad framework in which this nature legislation takes place. Knowing that the Secretary of State comes from a very different angle of the social battlefield, I think it's marvellous how quickly he got involved. The confidence expressed by the Secretary of State in the provinces is very good to me. In fact, the Empire gives something out of its hands in full confidence that it will be filled out in a decentralised manner. I am also very pleased that the Secretary of State looks at the twelve provinces individually, each of which must be able to do it for itself, but also places an explicit responsibility on the twelve provinces together, so that it also becomes a national provincial policy with the necessary coordination. I have every confidence that this will end well. I had made a whole point of the intrinsic value of nature in some distrust of how to deal with this somewhat contradictory concept. I especially had problems with the legal interpretation of this and not with the fact that there is some kind of drive that you have to respect nature. That may be all of me, but if I have understood correctly, we come to the conclusion that this intrinsic value must above all have a heavy administrative impact in dealing with nature policy and nature management, but that it is not the intention that in all consideration issues this intrinsic value should have a very strict legal effect. If this is the case in the Environment Act, then I think there is equality with all the other possible spatial elements that must be included in the balancing processes. Then this Nature Protection Act fits in. There is then a balance between the administrative drive, in which you treat nature with respect, and its legal interpretation, along with all other landscape and spatial elements. That's how we get out. Mr Kuiper addressed the enforcement problem in particular. We'd already been breeding together on a possible motion. The Secretary of State has said that he is in agreement with provinces and municipalities, that he also feels a responsibility in this regard and that it is mainly a matter of how the municipalities can fulfil this increased enforcement responsibility together. There is clearly a lack of capacity in the municipalities; financial, staff, but also in terms of knowledge. If, in this joint consultation, it is clear that provinces and municipalities come out of this, then I am confident that this will have to be done without the pressure of a motion. That is how positively I am fulfilling this commitment from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u169	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions about the first legislative proposal we are discussing with him in this Chamber. The Secretary of State has responded to my questions about intrinsic value and says that the entire bill has in fact been soaked in. I appeal to him that this is precisely the problem with hunting, for example. If you were serious about this, I think you'd eliminate a wild list like that. So I don't see that consistent line. My group still insists that the operationalisation of the concept of 'intrinsic value' should be looked at more closely. In general terms, the Secretary of State states that this bill offers a great deal of possibilities. I agree with him. However, these possibilities need to be grasped. The result is, of course, what matters. The result is absolutely not self-evident. On that point, I am not satisfied with the answer given by the Secretary of State. In fact, he keeps saying that it's gonna be okay, that the government is gonna work with the provinces, that everyone wants the same thing, and that the intentions are fine. I believe all of that. I'm sure you do. Only, again, the results count. My group wants to ensure that these results are achieved. That is exactly what we ask of the Secretary of State and what we ask of the Empire. Bail those results and make sure that you have opportunities to intervene if those results do not come or guarantee when there are absolutely huge financial gaps. On that point, I am less satisfied with the answer and have a number of additional questions. First of all, on active species protection. That is exactly the kind of subject that really needs to be put into practice. I find the Secretary of State very noncommittal in his reply when he says that the provinces are allowed to look at this. He says they can see how they're gonna do that. In the end, however, tough objectives and results must be achieved there. Then this programmed approach will be an instrument for this. I would like this to be used much more firmly by the Secretary of State. We have discussed system responsibility in detail. It still seems extremely sensible to me that the Secretary of State, even if you have all the confidence in the provinces, will eventually have a stick if it doesn't work out. He shouldn't be late, he should be able to bet on time. I therefore find it extremely unwise that there is no firmer instrument in the legislative proposal on this point. I've been asking questions about the monitoring. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is at least committed to this. I am still in favour of making the information available free of charge. I understand that organisations that have incurred costs have to receive income for this in one way or another. That's different from the fact that the information should just be available to everyone. I believe that this can greatly strengthen enforcement and monitoring, including by the general public and civil society organisations. Another point is the Nature Network. I still find it extremely strange that the areas not covered by Natura 2000 are in fact covered by a weaker protection regime than those covered by Natura 2000. To be honest, I do not see any logical reasoning for that. The Secretary of State says that the Birds and Habitats Directives are additional. The Birds and Habitats Directives provide good protection. Why not bring the Dutch Nature Network, which must be the backbone of nature in the Netherlands, under one clear and unambiguous protection regime? As far as the monitoring of landscapes is concerned, I am pleased that the Secretary of State says he is talking if this is not working properly. Once again, however, my group is keen to see results and to ensure that they are achieved. As far as hunting is concerned, I do not see how these five species still serve a social purpose. Here too, the societal goals for these species are the same as for all other species. Why is there not a single regime in which a number of societal goals are formulated? Why would you exclude these species and let them hunt so much easier? I share that the fauna management plans are in themselves a step forward, but they do need to be filled in. I'm glad the Environment Act passes one-on-one. I also think it is extremely important that the evaluation should take place at the end of 2017, as the State Secretary said, so that it can be taken into account in the discussion of the Environment Act. I will end by tabling a motion because I see too little guarantee in the area of enforcement and I also hear too little strong assurance in the words of the Secretary of State. My group is very concerned about this. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Strike and Mr Schnabel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas good enforcement of the Nature Protection Act is crucial to the effectiveness of the law;]] [[Whereas the current capacity to enforce nature legislation is insufficient;]] [[Calls on the Government to assume its system responsibility for the proper enforcement of the Nature Protection Act and to ensure adequate capacity and financial resources for the enforcement of the Act;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the quality and effectiveness of enforcement and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u170	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the Secretary of State's mastery on defending and discussing this complex bill so well. I had a bit of a feeling that was expressed by the other colleagues too, namely that it seems very bad that it all goes unisono between government and the provinces and that this does raise questions. The following was a bit surprising to me and I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to say something about this. If I have understood correctly from the Secretary of State how it works around these fauna management plans, there is no question of wild game being hunted at all. That was the conclusion I drew from his answer to the questions on this subject, namely that the hunting of wild game must also be organised and agreed within a fauna management plan. Did I get that right? If that is the case, I wonder why a separate arrangement has been made in the legislative proposal. Surely every species, every animal, every type of animal in a given area would have to be agreed on. I was wondering if it might be in the atmosphere of things outside the fauna management plan. I tried to find that in the law, but I couldn't find a passage that makes a clear difference between public nature reserves, what is natural monument or in public hands, and private areas. We know that there are forests in the Netherlands which are privately owned and which are specifically intended for hunting. Are they also included in the fauna management plans, or can they be hunted free? I tried to find that clearly in the various articles and also in the definition of the term "hunting," but I got a bit lost. I believe that it should be very clear for the public information on this sensitive issue what is precisely meant by hunting. If that is just hunting these five animals, the hare, the rabbit, and so on, that is something quite different from what most people underneath will understand. They think of deer, deer, wild boars and that kind of big animals, which, of course, appeal very much. On the one hand, I feel like I've gotten a little clearer about some things, but on the other hand, I've gotten a little confused. I hope that the Secretary of State will not respond with a shotgun shot, but that he will be able to give a bulletproof answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u171	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. I still have four points. The first concerns the always difficult relationship between the Empire and the other administrative bodies, namely provinces, municipalities and water boards. During this decentralisation, there are once again rules on relations. I'm not from the school "you're talking about it or you're not going over it." I'm more of the school "you have a joint duty of care and you have to agree well with each other what the mutual roles are." I have some cold feet in the answer of the Secretary of State regarding his involvement in a possible programmatic approach to active species management, as regards the role that the provinces could play in it. It was not our intention to limit or reduce the role of the provinces in this. More specifically, what can the Empire mean for such a national approach to species protection on a programmed basis? I mean that, given the instruments of system monitoring, for example, you can ask yourself whether, if we are going to mention a random example here, the bill on land-based dairy farming also addresses the issue of pasture birds. So I call that a question of coordination at a rich level, even within the portfolio, which can be steering, also for what we want in active grazing bird management and what we want in terms of sustainable development of dairy farming as a sector. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to respond in the second term. I heard the Secretary of State say that I consider that to be a commitment that, in the review that is to take place next year, he will take all the elements in terms of the impact, the financial situation and the deficits that are to be dealt with on this issue, so that we are given the opportunity to discuss them at an appropriate time. I mentioned September 2016 in my own contribution and the Secretary of State said at the end of 2016. That is, of course, too late for the financial year. Let me see how we can be involved, in such a way that it can also have an impact for the financial year 2017. I'm gonna say that with a kink. Mr Van Dijk, who represented the IPO in the hearing, used the nice metaphor of his daughters. Those were the provinces, in his metaphor. They'd gone out of the house and gone to college. He was of the philosophy that he should not ask those daughters every day what they had done, but that he should give them confidence. I think Mr Van Dijk is someone who really does intervene when things go wrong. There's a bit of the tilting moment: when do you get enough information to talk to each other and when do you have the confidence to let it go? I think it is a good thing that this Chamber has expressed the feeling that it wants to be involved in the evaluation, even if it calls for a budget chapter to be completed. My second point concerns the municipalities and the necessary authorisation. I can, like Mr Schaap, agree with the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will take care of this in an adequate manner. I wonder how we'll get back information about that. This is not the case, as I said in my first term too, if this point is not resolved in accordance with satisfaction, it will not be possible. Can the Secretary of State give us an undertaking that he will soon inform us of what this means for the implementing arrangements that he has yet to adopt with regard to the entry into force of the law itself? My third point is the debate on intrinsic value and incorporation into the Environment Act. The Secretary of State has given a full explanation. I can assume that Article 6 and Article 19 of the Birds and Habitats Directive will remain in force and will be implemented immediately in the Environment Act when the installation is completed. In the context of the weighting of economic space versus nature protection, it must be clear that the rules that apply under international obligations, which we have agreed with each other under the Birds and Habitats Directives, are still in force. Then, of course, Articles 6 and 19 when it comes to the appropriate assessment and the ADC test are very controlling for what is possible. Finally, that is my fourth point: I found the attitude of fathers and daughters somewhat in the answer of the composition of the fauna management units, because that is what the provinces are about. Yes, of course. However, there are a number of national organisations that are concerned about whether they will be adequately heard by the provinces for the input they could provide in terms of content and quality in such an FBE. That is why I asked the Secretary of State if he could promote, in a national consultation with the provinces, that they should discuss with these organisations how they can report in such a way that there is not too much diversity in the provinces where their own criteria are laid down that might cause tension with the legal obligation laid down in this law. On that point, I have a motion, which I would like to hand over to the chairman. The President shall: The following motion is proposed by members Verheijen, Barth, Nooren, Schrijver, Postema, Schaap and Schnabel: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in view of the legal obligation, it is desirable to comply with a sufficiently broad composition of the governing bodies of the fauna management units;]] [[whereas a number of rural organisations (KNJV, LTO, Animal and Fauna Protection, Natural Monuments etc.) should be placed in the regional fauna management units;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the provinces, to enter into national consultations with these and similar organisations and the representatives of the existing fauna management units, in order to facilitate compliance with the requested broad composition for a socially supported fauna policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u172	Mr. Chairman. Of course, the SP Group also admires the way in which the Secretary of State has developed this portfolio or at least this subject. However, we have not always been very happy with his reply, and I shall now go into that. I'll start with the fauna control units. The speaker before me was talking about it as well. Its composition is a matter of some concern to us. The Secretary of State says he'll leave it to the provinces anyway. I said in the first term: do not point to the province now, but take control of it yourself. The Secretary of State insists that the province should take care of it and that the provinces have a strong position. It doesn't give me enough confidence. I continue to advocate a balanced composition of a third site managers, a third scientists and a third stakeholders. These stakeholders can be hunters, but they can also be civil society organisations. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Schnabel and Mr Kuiper proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a balanced composition of fauna management units is not guaranteed by law;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that fauna management units should be balanced in order to avoid the shaping of the decision-making process to the interests of one specific group;]] [[Whereas a balanced composite fauna management unit consists of equal parts of scientists, stakeholders and land managers;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a balanced composition of the fauna management units as described is provided with a legal basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u173	Mrs Vos spoke about the sensitive areas. I had written a few words about this, but I can mostly agree with her words. I'm not going to talk about that anymore. I do not have a satisfactory answer to my question about prevention and damage control by means other than bullets. The answer about the hail didn't reassure me. I wasn't happy about that at all. I urge the Secretary of State to look for ways to prevent damage prevention and damage prevention by other means. I have a proposal for that too. The President shall: Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos and Mr Dercksen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the killing of animals is permitted by this Act without prior application of animal-friendly forms of prevention or harm control;]] [[calls on the Government to give priority to animal-friendly forms of prevention or harm reduction, legally anchored, over shots,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u174	May I ask Mrs Meijer a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u175	Go ahead, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u176	I have a question about the motion on the fauna management units. Mrs Meijer talks about a third interested party. Does that mean hunters? It also talks about land managers. Are these, for example, nature and animal protection organisations? Then she talks about science. I'm just trying to figure out what that three-part looks like. How do animal protection organisations fit in with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u177	They belong to the stakeholder group. The hunter is of course also an interested party. It is our intention not to give a majority to anyone, so that it is ensured that one gets out together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u178	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the words of thanks to the Secretary of State. I think it's a pleasant debate. Our group sees an important improvement in this law, both because of the legal coherence that arises and because of the decentralised approach. We support it. The customization that this makes possible is promising. We are satisfied with the answers we received about the relationship between the decentralised approach and the national direction. We wish the Secretary of State every success in further shaping that. We have also asked about the levels of protection. Other groups have asked questions about our position on the Birds and Habitats Directives. I may have missed it, but I wonder what our stakes are at the fitness check. Can the Netherlands be equally well represented in relation to the level of protection of the Birds and Habitats Directives? We have made a point of enforcement. I shall come back to that in conjunction with Mr Schaap's comment. The Secretary of State has made a commitment on this point, which is important for municipalities that are facing new tasks in a situation where we have already found that enforcement is inadequate. I quote a first sentence from the report of the Mans Commission, which, on behalf of the Ministry, looked at regulation and its enforcement: 'The enforcement of environmental law rules leaves a lot to be desired'. That was a number of years ago, but the situation has not improved substantially. Local authorities must be placed in a position to ensure proper enforcement and supervision. Now the Secretary of State has promised that he will see to it in the negotiations that are going on. There are three levels of government involved and that creates a certain complication. We would like to hear something about that. My question in this connection is whether, for example, we can learn by means of a letter how the government's commitment to this issue is going. In view of the comments made by other Members, I think this Chamber would like to be informed. There are motions tabled by the SP and by the PvdA, which are very much in the same direction. I find that somewhat confusing. I agree with the content. My group is also in favour of a balanced reflection of interest groups in the fauna management units. We will take that into account when considering the motions. However, there are two motions which have the same content in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u179	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. It is good to see that people in this Chamber feel so involved with nature. I would almost say that everyone was so involved in our culture. In substance, I have a number of questions and issues with which I have problems. I'll get two out. The first point is that this bill does not bring citizens back. I do not, of course, think that it should be given a role within that fauna management unit. According to the Aarhus Convention, which is valid for the establishment of installations and windmills, the public authorities are obliged to actively inform citizens and to do something about the contribution of those residents. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if those surroundings, even in their own surroundings, were given a more active role in determining what their own environment looks like, an environment to which they are in many cases very attached. I would like to comment on this point. A second point on which we have a difference of opinion is the role of private organisations. The Secretary of State indicated that the bigger ones will certainly be given a role in the fbe, but it is not said that they will also have a decisive role in it, or at least a role that they deserve because, for example, they have fantasticly maintained nature. I refer to the national parks, which will soon depend on the arbitrariness of the provinces and the composition of the FBEs. That is a real difference in substance which the Secretary of State has not covered; I fear that will not happen either. In any case, he knows this objection from the PVV group. Another objection is that of finance. We got an e-mail from the VNG who's worried. Yesterday, a deputy told me that they should simply free up money in the provinces in order to carry out the legal tasks. The Secretary of State just said that the funds have already been released to the provinces. But they're gonna have to put some serious money into it. That happens either within the budget, or by increasing the burden. I am afraid that will apply to the municipalities as well. That financial guarantee to carry out the legal tasks, it needs to be put in place. You can always decide whether or not to buy all kinds of land, but you always have to carry out the legal tasks. The sounds I get firsthand are that they have to put money in it. I believe that colleagues are very quickly satisfied with the answers given by the Secretary of State. We had an expert meeting. Almost the whole field argued not to sit there waiting for this law. Whether on the one hand the hunters and the private landowners, or on the other hand the animal protectors and bird protectors, nobody is really happy with that law. What are we gonna do with that law? In addition, we are not directly convinced that this law can be implemented one-on-one in the Environment Act. We think it would be wiser to do so at once. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Dercksen, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Peter van Dijk, Mr Van Strien, Mr Markuszower, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Kops, Mr Kok and Mr Van Weerdenburg proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Environment Act is in preparation for an integrated approach to the organisation of our country;]] [[Whereas the present legislative proposal is based on a more sectoral, fragmented approach;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable to implement legislation which may or may be revised in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to retain and integrate the Nature Protection Act into the Environment Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u180	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. Compliments for that, for its quality and for the way in which he has adopted such a large legislative proposal in a short time. That doesn't mean I'm happy with the Secretary of State's answers. I shall deal with four points, starting with the point he made about the combination of economic development and nature. I think it is a wish that nature and economy can go hand in hand, because nature is suffering from economic growth. We have seen that economic growth has left only 15% of biodiversity. That is why ensuring the level of protection of nature is crucial. The Secretary of State wants to maintain this level of protection, but at the same time he wants to release some of those legal rules, in the hope that they will be okay. So that's what I think wishful thinking is. In the implementation, I note, at least we need more checkable results. In view of these results, I am concerned about the Reich's obligation to achieve results in relation to the county's obligation to do so. I have the impression that the Secretary of State is prepared to frame that connection better than is currently the case. He says that cooperation with the provinces is very good. Monitoring will be carried out to achieve the objectives. But that is precisely why I would like to table the next motion in support of his policy. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Vos, Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Empire has an obligation to achieve a favourable conservation status for species and habitats;]] [[Whereas the law of provinces requires no more than an effort in this area;]] [[calls on the Government to establish settleable targets for a favourable conservation state of species and habitats with provinces within one year of the entry into force of the law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u181	The Secretary of State has also discussed my point that municipalities can now be exempted from killing protected species and that there can be no objection or appeal against them. I believe that the legal protection of animals is seriously at risk if civil society organisations do not have the opportunity to defend their interests through objections and appeals. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to make this objection and appeal possible. I'd like to do that by means of the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Vos, Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities may be exempted from killing protected species;]] [[Whereas an exemption for municipalities may run counter to the Birds and Habitats Directives;]] [[Whereas the exemption is not open to appeal and objection;]] [[calls on the Government to waive a categorical exemption and to attach activities such as those mentioned to an authorisation obligation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u182	Finally, the point raised by the Secretary of State regarding the fact that the Nature Protection Act now states that only deliberate killing or distressing of animals is prohibited, rather than the killing or distressing of animals. I find "intentionally" for an investigative officer and for the judge a difficult and enforceable concept. When disturbing or worrying, it is clear that someone can be addressed to it. But because of the term "intentional," investigators will lose the courage to address someone, because it is very difficult to prove this. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Meijer, Mr Koffeman, Mr Vos, Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Nature Protection Act prohibits only the deliberate killing or distressing of animals rather than the killing or distressing of animals;]] [[Whereas this complicates the enforcement of the ban on the killing and distress of animals;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a legal framework that is more enforceable and to notify the Court of Justice of this within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u183	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. However, I would also point out that he has misunderstood the way in which the five species are subjected to a structural plan by game management units. It is precisely the absence of such a structural plan that is the characteristic of the amendment that has changed this law diametrically. I am very pleased that Mr Schnabel has put this question to the Secretary of State. There was the need for a firing plan in the old law. That is precisely what has been killed by the amendment. This means that without any kind of outlaw plan, five species can be hunted outlawly and that only the hunters afterwards have to indicate, according to their own counts, how many animals have been shot. That figure will then be returned to their own fauna management unit. If you require riders to keep track of their mileage and turn them in to the BOVAG or any other motorists' club, to make clear what speeds they have driven, that gives little confidence. This is different with a discharge plan in advance, as initially laid down in the law. Those different societal goals of reasonable wildlife and population management are very clear falsehoods. In the note Mooi Nederland the wild list was deleted for that reason. It wasn't the first time that the Labour Party came up with it. The note Mooi Nederland says that if there is no damage, nuisance or population problem, then there will be no hunting. That's clear. But it also says: if there are problems, then there can still be hunting if there is an objective weighting. That possibility was taken out of the law by the Secretary of State. He followed the people of VVD and Labour Party who tabled the amendment. With this, every way of objectifying has been released from that hunt for the five species. In 1995, MP Willie Swilderens-Rozendaal said that it is illogical to have a wild list, because there is no hunting unless there is a particular reason for it. It stressed the importance of uniform protection, where infringements can only be justified for reasons of injury or protection. In the NRC of 21 October 1999, the same Willie Swilderens-Rozendaal admitted that she had caved in for the pleasure hunt on the five species because she could "get the VVD in other areas by choosing the pleasure hunt." There was therefore no substantive consideration, although it had lasted for three years. It was just a way to get the VVD involved in other policy issues. This is also the case today. It is a pity that you have to defend that for three years with a lot of flour in your mouth and that you only then dare to admit that it was actually a political deal. It's happening the same way now. That is why I am tabling the next motion, which I would like to see put to the vote by roll call next week. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Köhler, Mr Lintmeijer, Mr Dercksen and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the government does not consider hunting to be acceptable without a social purpose;]] [[the present bill allows hunting of five species without the need to plan, structure, objectify and maximize the discharge, taking into account the damage history and the capacity of the populations;]] [[the system of the Nature Protection Act differs substantially from that of the barely claused hunt for hare, pheasant, rabbit, wild duck and wood pigeon;]] [[the Eerste Kamer is deprived of the possibility of making a separate political final assessment of the various legislative proposals;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a novella which separates the hunting of the five species mentioned in the hunting list from the Nature Conservation Act and to submit them separately to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u184	The Secretary of State seems to have a great deal of faith in the hunting world. So much so that an intrinsic conflict of interest is maintained in the law. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the law defines the hunter as the person responsible for protecting the hunting interests of a yachtkeeper and also as the person responsible for the detection of the offences committed by or under that law and of the other offences referred to in the instrument or designation referred to in Article 142 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure;]] [[Whereas this definition may include conflicting interests, for example where the huntsman is also an employer of the hunter;]] [[Whereas this does not improve the enforcement of the law;]] [[invites the Government, the hunter, to assign the single task of an extraordinary investigative officer responsible for the investigation of the offences punishable by or under this law and of the other offences referred to in the instrument or designation referred to in Article 142 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u185	The cabinet is committed to decentralisation, but strangely enough that does not apply to the fox. He's still outlawed on the national exemption list. In the context of decentralisation, I invite the Secretary of State to remove the fox from it. In this sense, the next motion is intended to support that policy. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the fox is a protected species in the Flora and Fauna Act and in the future Nature Protection Act;]] [[noting that the fox is on the national exemption list, which means that during the whole year, including during carrying and sucking time, discharge may take place anywhere in the Netherlands, without needing to be demonstrated that there is damage or nuisance in an area;]] [[noting that the Nature Protection Act aims to transfer the direction of nature policy to the provinces;]] [[calls on the government to remove the fox from the national exemption list,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-R]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u186	I would like to recall that the Council of State systematically rejects the use of artificial light during fox hunting in all circumstances in the light of the Benelux Agreement. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State has not taken over. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Meijer, Mr Teunissen, Mr Vos, Mr Köhler and Mr Lintmeijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State considers that the Benelux Agreement and a decision based on it provide that artificial light may never be used in fox hunting, since artificial light is not a "mean" permitted in the Benelux for hunting;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the use of artificial light in fox hunting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33348-S]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u187	The way in which civil society organisations are now involved in the fauna management units is an incontrovertible route. The Bird Protection speaks of a wash nose; she does not want to cooperate with it. Animal protection says she likes to stick her neck out, but she doesn't like to stick her neck in the noose. Some provinces have already indicated that civil society organisations are only welcome in the fauna management unit if they are positive about hunting. That will of course be a very silly situation, so soon only hunting-related civil society organisations, such as Het Reewild, Het Edelhert Association and related pro-hunting organisations, will be able to participate in the fauna management units. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if that's his intention. Or: if that is the case, will he intervene? If only pro-hunting organisations are involved, this does not guarantee any objectivity. So only the deletion of the wild list and an objectification of the need for damage control and population management can lead to a fauna policy as promised by the Labour Party at all elections in recent decades, but again and again it has not been realised. Not even this time. This is not credible, serves no social purpose and runs counter to the protection of the intrinsic value of animals. How can you say that you recognize the intrinsic value of an animal when you then shoot it? That can never go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u188	I ask the Secretary of State if he can answer directly or if he would like a short suspension. I see Mrs Meijer walking to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u189	When I filed the motion with letter J, I had not yet taken the motion with letter I of the PvdA to me. I would therefore ask everyone to consider the motion on letter J as unwritten. I'm withdrawing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u190	Since the motion-Meijer c.s. (' point ) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u191	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank all of you for the kind words. This will, I think, only have been awarded to me this first time I stand here. However, I have taken them with pleasure. Mr Van Kesteren asked whether we would introduce this law, the Nature Protection Act, seamlessly into the Environment Act, in order to sum it up. That's the case. He is going to talk about it with his group, but I would like to give it to him anyway. I think this could be useful in that discussion. Mr Schaap made a number of comments and, of course, referred back to the debate on intrinsic value. I have heard that he was satisfied with the explanation of its legal significance in the legislative proposal. Like Mr Kuiper and Mr Dercksen, he had a comment on enforcement and budgets, particularly in municipalities. Mr Kuiper said that municipalities should be placed in a position to properly implement enforcement. He said if you promise the municipalities and the provinces to come out, it'll be fine. I would, of course, like to make a commitment to that. However, we are now in the middle of the process. We're also doing research, also to get a good idea of what it's about. In fact, municipalities had initially made assessments where, in view of the experience we had, we still had some doubts: should enforcement efforts really be so large? So that's what we're looking at right now. Good research is now under way. The result of this research discusses the Empire, the provinces and the municipalities together. As I said, the commitment is to make agreements on this in February. I admit that I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible about these appointments. The commitment is, of course, to ensure that provinces and municipalities are jointly able to implement enforcement. In the first period, I have also indicated that we have already decentralised the budget we had with us, including for enforcement, to the provinces. I come to Mrs Fox's questions. She said the intrinsic value is in the law, but what about hunting? Let me take a look at the hunt in detail later, also in connection with Mr Schnabel's and Mr Koffeman's questions. Furthermore, Mrs Vos's input focused on the pursuit of results, so to speak. The whole purpose of this law is to achieve the result that we have committed ourselves to at European level. Mrs Vos rightly said in the first term: the system responsibility lies with the Empire, but before the implementation we made agreements with the provinces. We cannot, of course, lay down by law that we are achieving the result we are aiming for. The law gives the instruments of which we together, provinces and empire, have the conviction that this will enable us to achieve the result. We have also made good agreements in the Nature Management Agreement and the Nature Pact on the efforts of the provinces to achieve the objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directive. We have also agreed to monitor progress. I dealt with this in the first place, but Mrs Vos also asked: what kind of stick do you have behind the door after all? I told you, I'm not gonna assume that. I think it is important to emphasise that. Still, I'm gonna tell you what we could do in case it's ever necessary. The most important thing, of course, is that we hold consultations and adjust them if the monitoring gives rise to them. We'll do it together. That commitment is also there together. Those are, like, the soft instruments. There are also more compelling instruments. Inter-administrative supervision is included in the Province Act and in the European Regulatory Compliance Act public entities. The Empire can then "step in place" if a province would really neglect its task. If decisions are taken which are contrary to the law or to the public interest, they may be destroyed. Evidence of non-compliance with European obligations may be provided. Furthermore, we can report any European fines. Those are the sticks behind the door that Mrs. Fox asked for. You could bet it. If you need it, however, something has gone very wrong somewhere. This is only the case if the provinces do not focus the resources available on the objective we have agreed: the favourable conservation status. That is why I say that the sticks behind the door are there, but of course we are not meant to end up at that stage. We want to achieve the result together. We monitor and adjust. We all do this in good consultation and on the basis of a joint commitment. As Mrs Vos explicitly asked, I thought: I will give her a clear answer as to what can be done. I come to Mrs. Fox's motion. Mr President, if it is all right with you, then I shall keep moving the motion between the questions. I think that's the best thing to do. Then I'll just go off with every speaker. In its motion with the letter H, the cabinet is asked to assume its system responsibility for the proper enforcement of the Nature Protection Act. I hope to have indicated why I am convinced that we are already doing so, that I am already doing so. It also calls for adequate capacity and financial resources to be provided. We've already decentralised them, so we already have those resources, they're already in the provinces. It also calls for monitoring the quality and effectiveness of enforcement. We do that together with the provinces. I could say it's policy support, because we're already doing it. However, I assume that Mrs Vos has tabled the motion because she believes that we should go further than what we are doing. Then I must discourage the motion, because I am convinced that what we are doing is enough and that there is already sufficient capacity. Nor do I think it is wise to say in advance that there must be some sort of blank cheque: 'whatever you need to maintain, the Empire will pay for it'. That doesn't fit in with the agreements we made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u192	I have one short question. It's absolutely not about a blank check. In this motion, I ask that the Secretary of State should at least assume his system responsibility by also saying that good enforcement is crucial to achieving results with this law. I also ask that, as is the case with other targets, if there are deficits or if things are not going well, together with the provinces, we ensure that it is being resolved, that that capacity is being created and that there are sufficient financial resources. That's what I'm actually asking the Secretary of State. Indeed, I am now concerned by the experience so far and the signals I am getting from the field. That is why I strongly invite the Secretary of State to look into this and to inform us about how the situation is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u193	I'm just looking for what Mrs. Fox means. I have that system responsibility. We also have this conversation with each other, but I find it complicated that Mrs Vos says: if there are deficits, you should make sure that they are resolved. 'Cause that's not the deal we made. In the Nature Pact, we have already agreed that the provinces will have the main responsibility for enforcement. For this, the budget is also decentralised. Counties and Empire agree on that, too. There is therefore agreement that there are sufficient means to implement enforcement. When I look strictly at the wording, I say: this is what we are already doing, so support policy. However, Mrs Vos' intention is to do more. In doing so, she puts it this way: if provinces or municipalities run into problems, the Empire should actually draw the wallet. Those aren't the proportions. If Mrs Vos means that we need to talk about this together and look at how we can solve it together, it is support for policy. See, for example, the conversation we are having about dividing enforcement between municipalities and provinces and how they can work together. If it is, it is policy support, because we already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u194	Very briefly, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u195	I mean that you are going to solve this together, but in such a way that in the end you will make it work together. That's the point of my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u196	Our intention is to work together to make it all right. I would like to stress every time that I think it is important that we have already transferred that money. Mrs Vos also knows the budget. It's not like there's a lot of money left in the rich budget for nature. That money has been transferred and it's in provinces. It's already decentralized. It is therefore also a decentralised responsibility to ensure that it is properly deployed. Of course we'll discuss it with each other. If Mrs Vos's intention is that I should be the one to pay it if one is decentralised against enforcement problems, then I must discourage the motion. But if Mrs. Vos says we should discuss it with each other and come out together, then of course we will. I think the Chamber will be able to weigh that in itself. In any case, it seems to me to be a motion that is not necessary, even in the last sense. Mrs Vos also said that information on monitoring should be made available free of charge. I'll tell her I'll take that with me in the talks with the provinces. The intention, both of the provinces and of us, is of course to make as much of the results of the policy visible as possible. I did make a comment in the first period. If private organisations provide information, you cannot expect them to do so free of charge. If we now say that all this must be made available free of charge, the provinces and we can draw the wallet. That is not entirely the intention, but the intention is to make it as visible as possible so that there is as much transparency as possible. I'm going to discuss with the provinces how far we can get in there. Mrs Vos came back to the question of why the Netherlands Nature Network is not covered by national protection, i.e. under the same umbrella as Natura 2000. Natura 2000 flows one-on-one from the directives and has a very strict regime, also a strict licensing regime. The Nature Network really has a different status. This is necessary to help with a favourable conservation status of species. However, it does not necessarily need the same strict regime, because these are clearly connecting zones. The spatial planning regime is sufficient for this. That's decentralised, so provinces can use it themselves. The Nature Network therefore does not need the same level of protection as the Natura 2000 sites. That's why it's another category in this law. Mrs Vos asked about the results of the landscapes. Together with the provinces I talk about developing a landscape vision. Before that, we'll take stock of what's already happening. On this basis, we will look at possible gaps and how we can take them back together. I come to Mr Schnabel's question on hunting. Mr Koffeman and others have also come back to this. Mr Schnabel asked: what about the five species that can be hunted? And is there wild game that can be hunted, yes or no? In the first term, I have tried to emphasise that this bill has three categories. It knows the hunt for the five species, it knows population management........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Those three categories all have a different kind of regime. For population management and damage control, you really need to get an exemption. Hunting is allowed in principle, but it is also subject to conditions in this bill. One of these conditions is that hunting must also be carried out on the basis of a fauna management plan. So what Mr Koffeman said in the original bill had to be made in advance and now that is not so much true anymore. This legislative proposal must also draw up a plan in advance, a plan for the management of fauna. That is also the basis for the hunting of the five species. But you don't have to indicate anything in the fauna management plan about those five species in advance. That's different from population management. In addition, you really have to indicate in advance: the population is too large; it will go wrong with that population if we do not take measures now. That's not the case with those five species. In addition, we simply assume that the population is large enough and that it can be hunted on it without having an immediate impact. That needs to be substantiated in the fauna management plan. The Fauna Management Unit makes the Fauna Management Plan. Civil society organisations are at the table. As I indicated in the first term, they also have a strong position at the table thanks to this law. So also with regard to the hunting of the five species, the social view of nature conservation organisations looks at and decides what the plan looks like on the basis of which hunting may take place. However, it is important to keep an eye on these three different categories.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u197	The Secretary of State is reasonably fresh on this dossier, so I think we can have some consideration in that sense, but what he's doing now is really misinformed the Chamber. That's not good politically. The authors of the amendment write: "This amendment incorporates first of all into the law that the fauna management plan contains verifiable quantitative evidence of the indicative size of the populations of the different species that can be combated using the gun or whose population can be limited by the gun. This justification does not need to be given for the five species...'. So there's no firing plan, there's no backup. This means that the fauna management plan does not apply in any way to those five species. The Secretary of State gives the impression that this is true. That is really wrong to inform this Chamber, and that is very bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u198	If Mr Koffeman thinks so, he should table a motion of censure. I'm just quoting the law, because that's what we're here for. I expect a senior MP to just read the law. Let me make that clear. When such big words are used, it is also nice when we look at the article of the law. Article 3.12 (1) states: "The sustainable management of populations of wild animals, the control of harm caused animals by land users and the pursuit of hunting shall be carried out in accordance with the fauna management plan'. I do not know what Mr Koffeman does not understand. I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u199	A brief response, Mr. Koffeman. Then Mr Schnabel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u200	It is clearly stated that there is no need to include any justification in the fauna management plan for the discard plans for the five species. The Secretary of State knows that, too. And that is quite different from what is now quoted in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u201	Mr Koffeman said just now that hunting does not have to be done on the basis of a plan for the management of fauna.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u202	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u203	Now I'm reading that it's there. I understand he's not repeating it. So it has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u204	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u205	And, of course, there is something to be borne in mind in this plan for the management of fauna. The condition we impose on hunting, including hunting for those five species, is that it contributes to the management of the right wildlife. That is why civil society organisations are also at the table to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u206	Finally, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u207	Here we differ fundamentally. I advise all colleagues to use this week to weigh the Secretary of State's explanation against my explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u208	I would always advise people to read the law, because it just says so clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u209	I am also impressed by Mr Koffeman's line that it is a very sharp point that it is not easy to read the law. It is a socially important law, which will have a lot of impact in society. I must insist that the people be told very clearly that the law must be read according to the explanation given by the Secretary of State, assuming that this is the correct explanation. In fact, the term "hunting" is very much limited to the five species that can be hunted. All other forms of using the rifle to kill animals in the wild are no longer defined as "hunting." Of course that is possible, but that does require an explanation, because in general speech most people mean "hunting" after a wild boar or shooting a deer. Most emotions come from that, too. If what the Secretary of State explained really is the intention and purpose of the law, then it is extremely important that it is explained very well. Indeed, the peculiar interpretation of the term "hunting" is not self-evident to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u210	Mr Schnabel is right that the legal concepts of "hunting" and "population management" in this law are one and the same for the average Dutchman. That is why I also said that population management is about the larger wild species like the boar and the roe that Mr Schnabel calls. For these species the requirements are stricter than for hunting the five species mentioned above. It should only be hunted if it is indicated in advance that this is necessary for the population. In the case of the five species, this need not be indicated in advance, but it also needs to be substantiated that the hunting is justified in Article 3.12 (5). We have a separate regime for these five species because we assume that it is justified, but it still needs to be substantiated in a plan for the management of fauna. I would like to stress once again that this is done with the co-decision of civil society organisations, which are members of the fauna management unit and therefore have an important say in it. That's important for the way we handled it. This is all reflected in article 3.12 of the law. Mr Verheijen asked me if I had any fear of cold water for a programmed approach. No, I don't; look at the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, which we do with. Mr Verheijen knows that approach, so he knows that it is not the lightest instrument that this law knows. There is therefore a certain reluctance to use such an approach. Where there is another way, provinces and I will prefer to choose that way. Just now, the debate was on the approach for meadow birds. With the approach that will take shape in the coming months, I think we can at least keep the population of meadow birds at a level. That is the result that we want to achieve with our commitment. Mr Verheijen also asked whether the evaluation of the Natural Pact could be brought to the fore, from the end of 2016 to September 2016, so that it could be weighed in budget treatment. I understand that wish, but the lead time is as it is. One cannot do it faster than what I said in the first term. So at the end of 2016 is really the first time that the Chamber can get this evaluation. Mr Verheijen also asked whether Article 6 and Article 19 of the Birds and Habitats Directive would also be included in the Environment Act. Yes, these demands do come directly into the Environment Act; I can reassure Mr Verheijen on that. Mr Verheijen and others spoke about the fauna management units. He also tabled the motion for a resolution on letter I. In it, he asked for a national consultation with the provinces with the organisations mentioned in the motion and similar organisations, and with representatives of the existing fauna management units, in order to facilitate compliance with the requested broad composition. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The provinces will take the lead, but I have been asked to enter the consultation because there is the intention of a broad composition. I have already stressed a number of times the important role played by the various civil society organisations. Unfortunately, Mrs Meijer was not always happy with my answer. I would like to see whether I can change that in this period, because it might be more positive about this law. Her motion on letter J had already been withdrawn because of the motion on letter I. I have just said that I am prepared to leave the judgment to the Chamber. That might help. In her motion on letter K, she has requested that animal-friendly forms of prevention or damage control be given legally anchored priority over shots. As far as the fight against damage is concerned, the law says that the alternative to which the animal suffers the least must be used. In fact, there are more ways to combat damage than just shots. The bill states which forms of death are permitted. This should be further determined through underlying regulation. It is up to provinces to grant exemptions. For this purpose, they may use the instruments designated by underlying regulation. In doing so, also provinces must always choose the instrument that causes the least suffering. What Mrs Meijer is asking is, in fact, already legally anchored. Where damage control needs to be done, my commitment is that it always happens in the way animals suffer the least. If there are alternatives to killing animals, they must therefore be used. Unfortunately, where animals sometimes have to be killed, I think that everyone finds that annoying, we need to look at what methods can be used so that animals do not suffer unnecessarily. That is my commitment, including in talks with provinces and the adoption of the underlying regulation on the basis of this law. I was therefore a little puzzled on my judgment on the motion. I come to "dissuade" because it asks something that I think is already there, or that it is already in line with my commitment. The motion therefore seems to be superfluous. If the Chamber were to accept her, I wouldn't know exactly what I would have to change about how things are now. Mr Kuiper spoke a number of friendly words. He also expressed his confidence in the approach as it is. I appreciate that very much. Mr Dercksen said that the citizen does not actually come back in the bill. Apart from the citizen who thinks it is important that nature is well protected, I would add, but he specifically referred to his role in management. My answer was that provinces are responsible for establishing the management plan, but that individuals can indeed play a role in it. They can be involved in planning and implementation, especially in their own areas. Mr Schaap also said a few things about this in the first term. In the motion in part L, Mr Dercksen asks for the Nature Protection Act to be enforced and incorporated into the Environment Act. I would advise against this motion, because the bill is necessary for decentralisation. The provinces have also sent a letter to the Court on this matter, and I have given some arguments for it in the first place. Mr Dercksen commented on the enforcement role of municipalities and indicated that these funds should be made available. I've just indicated how we're talking. In response to the questions put by Mr Schaap and Mr Kuiper, I promised that I might be the Chamber in February, but let us hope to be able to inform you of the agreements we have made on this subject in February. Mrs Teunissen repeated her remark that economics and nature do not really go hand in hand. That would be extremely disappointing, because we don't really have another choice. In a densely populated country like this with a lot of human activities and a lot of activity we will have to succeed in protecting nature. That is the intention of this law. By turning them against each other, you're not going to make much progress. You have to accept that they exist side by side and that our ambition must be to manage, despite all these human activities and activities, to protect nature, species and birds under the Birds Directive. That's exactly what this is about. Those two will have to be in balance. I don't think we should accept that it wouldn't be possible. It must be possible, because otherwise it is nature that always falls short; I agreed with Mrs Teunissen. By the way, the fact that we can put money into it is, of course, thanks to the fact that the economy is doing well in this cabinet period. Mrs Teunissen tabled a motion under M calling on the government to draw up verifiable targets for a favourable conservation status for species and habitats. I have already responded to this in response to questions put by Mrs Vos. We make agreements with provinces on achieving the goals, monitoring and adjusting if we are not on track, but we cannot deliver an agreement on checkable targets as stated in the motion. That goes too far, and that's why I have to discourage that motion. Then I come to Mrs Teunissen's motion under N, in which the government is asked to waive a categorical exemption in relation to the killing of protected species. Appeals or objections on the basis of the General Administrative Law Act are open to individual decisions. However, what is at issue in this case is not individual decisions but category exemptions and it is not open to appeal and objection. The category exemption is in line with what the Birds Directive provides for. It also gives the opportunity to do so because unfortunately this is sometimes necessary. That's why I advise against this motion. Motion O by Mrs Teunissen concerns the deliberate killing or distressing of animals. In the first period, I have already indicated that this bill deliberately added the term, precisely because there were enforcement problems. Mrs Teunissen says that what is in it is not good to maintain. No, the problem is that the old text could not be maintained properly, because it confused enforcers whether or not they should issue a fine. In fact, they always had to pay if there was any concern, so even when it was obvious that people had not done so on purpose at all and had not acted reprehensiblely, while giving punishment must be subject to reprehensible action. That is why the term has now been deliberately added. Intentionally is not only willful but also reprehensible, so you should have known that we do you, animals disturbed. Then you're also a criminal. If there really is no intention in the legal sense of the word, then there is no criminality and therefore you will not be fined. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u211	The fact is, as we heard at the expert's meeting, that reports have already been torn apart because this new legislation is coming. So apparently there is still uncertainty. I'm not saying we should go back to the old situation. This motion does not call for this either, but it calls for better enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u212	I don't know if there's gonna be a torn record. Mrs Teunissen says that the current situation leads to misunderstandings. Well, that is what I have just argued. The current legislation does not state the term intentionally. That means if you're worried about animals, you're punishable. Even though you didn't intend to do it, and even though it's not reprehensible what you've done, if you've upset animals, you're still punishable. That sometimes puts enforcers in a very difficult situation. They have to punish people who have actually done nothing genuinely wrong. It is, of course, very strange to have to impose a fine on someone who has actually done nothing wrong. That doesn't match the sense of justice. So if they're gonna drop the fine, I can see where that came from. That is precisely why the word has been deliberately included in this bill, namely to put an end to that ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u213	My point is that, in the run-up to the new situation, police reports have been torn apart. I have outlined the situation in the Wadden Sea area where seals and birds were deliberately disturbed by humans. Those people got a police report, but in the run-up to this new law, their police report was torn apart. Apparently, therefore, there is a lack of clarity. I ask the Secretary of State to remove that ambiguity. I think this can be done with a different means of enforcement than what is now being offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u214	But Mrs Teunissen misunderstands the lack of clarity. This uncertainty arises precisely on the basis of the current situation, namely that you must pay the fine, even if someone has done nothing wrong. The distress of seals or wadbirds is a criminal offence. On the contrary, this legislative proposal makes it clear that there must be a set-up, where design can also mean culpable action. Then you can be fined, but if you really do it without any form of intent and without actually doing anything wrong, you will not get a fine. If that already leads to enforcers tearing up that fine, then that is probably due to the lack of clarity, because it is necessary to pass fines which are not actually considered fair at all. That's exactly what we're gonna solve with this bill. On Mr Koffeman's motion P, I can be brief: I do not recommend it. In view of the debate we have had, everyone will understand that. Then I come to Mr Koffeman's motion Q, which calls on the gamekeeper to assign the single task of an extraordinary investigative officer. These are people who are employed by all kinds of organizations with natural interests and who are also an extraordinary investigative officer. The knife cuts both ways now. Mr Koffeman wants to make it a single task. That's why I don't recommend that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u215	Mr Koffeman, please have a very brief interruption. I'd like to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u216	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The gamekeepers are not only employed by nature organisations but also by estate owners who hunt. This means that they have the task of supervising them and that they must banish that employer at the time when it goes wrong. Seems to go wrong a lot. It turns out that hunters in the service of the yacht keeper themselves commit faulty acts or overlook the wrong actions of their employer. That's possible with that double cap. I'm asking the Secretary of State to make that a single hat. The Secretary of State doesn't make it clear what would be against that single hat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u217	That double cap can be interesting sometimes. As I said, the knife cuts both ways: hunting is monitored, especially from nature's interests. I therefore insist that I reject this motion. The motion on letter R calls on the government to remove the fox from the national exemption list. I do not know whether this motion is really the same as it was formulated literally last week in the House of Representatives by Mr Koffeman's colleagues there. So I'm going to say the same thing I said there. I leave the motion to the judgment of this Chamber, just as I left it to the judgment of the House of Representatives. That fox was placed on the list at the request of the House of Representatives. It was therefore not a proposal from the cabinet, but a request from the Lower House. If Parliament wants to come back to that, it can. Then I'll hear about it and then it'll work. It is up to you to consider whether that should be done in the First Chamber or in the Second Chamber. Finally, I come to the motion on letter S, which calls on the government to ban the use of artificial light in fox hunting. In the light of the discussion with Mr Schnabel, I would like to say that killing foxes is not a legal hunt, but in this case damage control or population management. This does not fall within the scope of the Benelux Agreement to which the motion refers. He sees only the hunting of the five species. In the case of damage control or population management, artificial light may be required in specific cases. So I can't rule that out in advance. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u218	The motion refers to a ruling by the Council of State, which the Council of State itself considered so important that it issued a press release on it. The Council of State says that the use of artificial light is under no circumstances permitted under the Benelux Agreement. The Council of State had therefore precisely weighed down the fact that hunting foxes, whether you call it "hunting' or "prevention of damage', using artificial light, is not permitted in accordance with the Benelux Agreement. Am I to understand that the Secretary of State is questioning the Council of State's judgment in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u219	What I would point out is that the Benelux agreement does not deal with population management and the fight against damage, but with hunting, and that there is another regime in terms of the use of resources in terms of population management and the fight against damage. This means that I cannot exclude resources in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u220	That was exactly what the Council of State discussed. It was about the fox. It was about the fight against damage. The Council of State has said that no artificial light can be used. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State, in accordance with the ruling of the Council of State, to ban it from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u221	We will, of course, look at that statement again, if Mr Koffeman is so sure that it is there. I have noticed in the debate today that he reads everything very carefully, so I will look at it again. If the Council of State doesn't have room for anything, there's no room for it. But our interpretation right now is that that space is there. On that basis, I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my reply. May I thank you for the extensive and very substantive debate, for the first time in this Chamber. It tastes like more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u222	That sounds very positive. You have already received compliments from the MPs. It sounds like you've never done anything but stand here defending a bill, I say for my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-08-eerstekamer-8.u223	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose that next Tuesday we vote on this bill and on the package of motions. There is one motion on which a roll-call vote has been requested. We'll see which motion that is next week; I believe it with letter P or R. There's so many of them, I can't remember. One motion will be put to the vote by roll call, and you will know that.
