ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber. I shall open the debate and give the floor to the speaker: Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I took the liberty of standing here. I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on European Affairs of this Chamber, with the exception of the PVV Group. Today we are discussing the legislative proposal Adoption of Protocol No 24 June 2013 in Strasbourg. 15 amending the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. I would remind the government how the Chamber used the government at the time of the Brighton Declaration, which was the basis for Protocol No. 15, and how it was obliged to observe that the margin of appreciation and the principle of subsidiarity, on which the government had previously stated that codification of these principles was not included in the ECHR, were nevertheless included in the preamble to the Treaty. On Tuesday 13 March 2012, a policy debate took place in this plenary room, in which the First Chamber discussed the government's commitment to the future, the role and powers of the European Court of Human Rights with the rulers of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, of Security and Justice and of Foreign Affairs. Mr Franken then tabled a motion in the preamble stating that the government sees no reason to advocate more scope for the margin of appreciation of contracting parties in the implementation of ECHR standards. In response to this motion, the government, through the Minister of Security and Justice, has declared its agreement with the content of this motion. This motion has been accepted by Parliament, with the exception of the PVV Group. In this policy debate, the Minister for Security and Justice stated that he did not wish to codify the principle of subsidiarity and the margin of appreciation in the Treaty. Such codification would no longer be the case, he argued. The Committee on European Affairs has noted with great regret that both the principle of subsidiarity and the doctrine of the margin of appreciation developed by the Court have ultimately been incorporated into the Treaty, albeit in the preamble. With regard to the law on approval which we are discussing today, I would like to put the following point of view to the government. I would ask the Minister to let the Chamber know if he shares it. Firstly, however, the political groups wish to point out that they consider the principle of subsidiarity to be an unnecessary exercise in the preamble, because it is already found in the body of the Treaty. The political groups also point out that they do not read and interpret the codification proposed in the Act of Approval as a strengthening of the principle and more room for Member States to decribe to the Court, whose role can therefore be limited. Does the government share this view? By letter from the former Secretary of State for Security and Justice of 27 July 2012, to which the explanatory memorandum also refers, the Government informed the Chamber that inclusion of the doctrine of margin of appreciation and subsidiarity in the preamble to the Protocol does not mean that the scope of the doctrine is affected, in other words that no more room is now given to the margin of appreciation of the parties to the Convention in the implementation of the standards of the ECHR than has been the case so far. Whether or not to apply the margin of appreciation remains entirely for the assessment of the Court. Does the government confirm that it is still of this opinion and that it remains committed to doing so? I would like to hear the Minister's response to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister, assuming he has the opportunity to reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the chairman of the committee, Mr Strik, for her input, which, in any case, explicitly supports the European Court of Human Rights. I can only stress this wholeheartedly. The importance of the adoption of the Protocol before us today lies in the fact that it proposes some amendments to the ECHR which will reduce the Court's workload. At the same time as Protocol No. 15 consolidated the principle of subsidiarity and the doctrine of margin of appreciation mentioned by Mrs Strik. I fully share Mrs Strik's view. This codification does not give rise to any question as to the position of the Court. With Protocol No. 15 We remain loyal to the European system for the protection of human rights in all member countries including the Netherlands. The important principle of subsidiarity is the basis of the ECHR without explicit reference to it. It is reflected in several articles. I share the committee's view that the establishment of this principle in the preamble does not alter its content or extent. The same applies to the definition of the doctrine of margin of appreciation. The scope of the margin or appreciation is not affected. Whether or not to apply the doctrine remains entirely for assessment by the Court, as is also provided for in the Explanatory Memorandum to the Protocol. I remain committed to strengthening the authority and authority of the Court and to complying with the judgments of the Court. I would like to make it clear, in response to the very specific questions put by the committee, that the objective of anchoring the margin of appreciation and the principle of subsidiarity is not to change the substance of these principles. The importance of the doctrine of margin of appreciation and the principle of subsidiarity is now enshrined. The scope is not affected. Then why is it included in the preamble? The margin of appreciation has been developed in the case law of the Court and has so far been part of the so-called "jurisdiction'. In the light of the motion, the Netherlands has opposed its inclusion in the treaty texts. It is now part of the preamble. "Justice" means the law which has been developed since the establishment of the ECHR in 1950 by the case law of the Court itself. The Court considers the ECHR to be a "living instrument" which should be interpreted in a contemporary way where necessary. This is the anchoring of a long-established concept. That gives the concept a solid character. That's why they wanted to codify it. It will increase the transparency and accessibility of the ECHR. Again, the scope itself does not change anything. I therefore believe that we have acted on the basis of the motion adopted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u5	We now have the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u6	Mr President, may I thank the Minister very much from my place for his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u7	As far as I'm concerned, yes. Does the Minister need a second term? I hardly suppose after this word of thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u8	I would also like to thank the First Chamber for its contribution to this period, expressing the hope that it will approve this Protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-11.u10	The bill is passed without a vote.
