ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u1	A word of welcome to the Minister for Security and Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I'm glad you're back with us. We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Bontes of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group. He has one minute's speaking time. The other speakers have two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week, during the general consultation, the cabinet gave very vague answers to critical questions. In the first term, the cabinet had no knowledge of heavy anti-aircraft guns in eastern Ukraine, but in the second term, the cabinet suddenly knew about them. For the third time, did the cabinet or did it not have knowledge of the heavy anti-aircraft guns? It is not possible for diplomatic reports to remain secret or for sentences to be deleted from reports. It's time for the truth. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet does not wish to open up many cases relating to the attack on the MH17 and that this leads to a serious reduction in the supervisory role of the Chamber;]] [[decides to conduct a parliamentary survey on the information position and decision-making process within the Cabinet, with regard to air security over eastern Ukraine, in the weeks prior to the attack on the MH17,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. It was a crucial debate on the MH17 last week, for five hours, in which D66 appreciated the government's action immediately after the disaster but also indicated that 200 days after the disaster still have many questions. Why was no one warned and what did the cabinet know? We have received different answers, but we can already talk about safety in the aviation sector. The cabinet said about the MH17 that the proper balance had been made, given the responsibilities. That sounds a bit like system thinking. Because, yes, perhaps the proper procedures have been followed, although it must still be demonstrated by the investigation, but the question is whether these procedures are in order. Secretary of State Mansveld clearly said so last week, when she actually said something quite different about North Korea. She wants an international website now. These are of course good intentions, but the Dutch aviation sector already says: that is not going to work; talk to us about our own national system. I'd like the cabinet to do that. We must reduce the risks to passengers as much as possible. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the risks to passengers in the aviation sector should be mitigated as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, to consult with the Dutch aviation sector in order to improve information gathering and risk analysis of flights on conflict areas and the role of the Government in them, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voordewind and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. We have had a good and extensive debate with the government leaders of the cabinet. However, I was dissatisfied, because we got the answer that all the procedures had been met, while we continued to see that the plane had come down. That is why I co-signed Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. We should not wait until we have all the investigations, but see what we can do now, through Secretary of State Mansveld, to improve the intelligence position of the airlines. I also asked questions about this in the debate. I understand that there will be a website, an information system, but it is ultimately up to the airlines to draw conclusions from it. That seemed to me to be a very unsatisfactory outcome, hence the support for Sjoerdsma's motion. I hope we can support that Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. An important point in the debate on the MH17 is the question of what exactly the government knew about flight safety or its lack over eastern Ukraine in the days before the air crash. The Minister of Foreign Affairs refused, whether confidential or not, to disclose the report of a briefing on 14 July in Kiev, which discussed matters relating to this security. Nor was the Minister prepared to ask Ukraine and other participants in that briefing whether, in view of the Dutch Parliament's desire to have more information, they would object to the submission, whether confidential or not, to the Second Chamber of the report in so far as it relates to what they themselves said in that briefing. The Minister did not provide any justification for that refusal. At least, no other than: believe me; it can't be. If the Public Administration Act called for the report, the Minister could indeed refuse it if the importance of providing that information does not outweigh the importance of the Netherlands' relations with other states and international organisations. In that case, the Minister must prove to the judge that he has specifically asked other states whether he is. Other states must then have given concrete and explicit information to the Netherlands that they do not agree to the provision of the requested information and that they count on confidentiality. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Court has insufficient insight into the information provided during a briefing for diplomats on 14 July 2014 on matters relating to aviation safety over eastern Ukraine;]] [[invites the Government to provide the Court with the report or reports made of that briefing, whether confidential or not, for inspection by the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u6	I would add that I am prepared to hold the motion if the Minister is prepared to say here that he is going to do what is stated in the criteria of the Public Administration Act. Then I'll hold the motion until we get a result on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Chairman. We have had a long general discussion here, but so far my group has had some incomplete answers to the questions that live. I agree with the question put by my colleagues, Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Bontes: what happened between the first and the second term? First, it was answered that there was no information on heavy weapons and in the second term it was said that there was. Can the government indicate what information was available? Was there any information from NATO or the memo that Mr. De Roon is asking for? Perhaps there was also an ICAO AFTN or a confidential briefing from NATO, because before something is said in public, it is often communicated to countries in a more confidential setting. I'd like to receive that list. We do not have to do that now, we can do that tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but we would like to know what that information position was. There is still too much uncertainty about that. We've seen a WOB request. There was a lot of blackmail on that WOB request. I have a page here. I don't have the blackest page, but a page that started with a factsheet. If a WOB request is used black in a factsheet, it is not complete. This is not how we deal with information. That's why I have a few questions. The first question is whether the Minister can simply forward these factsheets and the WOB request to the Chamber with all matters that can be made public, including the facts. Are there any decision lists available from that interdepartmental committee? If they're available, why haven't they been made public? Will researchers be given access to all documents of the Ministerial Commission and inter-departmental committee, including the reports, decision lists and meeting documents? And has an information protocol been established by the WODC? Finally, I think it is a matter of concern to all of us that whoever fired and whoever ordered it gets a proper trial and eventually we find the culprits. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, among others, the Netherlands, Malaysia and Ukraine could individually prosecute a suspect for the attack on the MH17;]] [[Considering that the Government itself had undertaken to formulate a strategy for prosecution before 28 November 2014;]] [[considers that a strategy for prosecution should be ready when one or more suspects appear;]] [[calls on the Government to forward to the Chamber within two months a letter on the possibility of prosecution and the degree of international agreement thereon,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33997-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. I wasn't actually going to speak in this VAO after the extensive AO we had last week. But in particular the motion tabled by Mr Bontes here to use Parliament's hardest tool justifies a short response and appreciation. Five investigations were launched after the MH17 was brought down: an investigation into the situation, about the decision on the flight route, about the composition of the passenger lists, of course about the guilt of the prosecution, and, at the request of my own group, the government intervention in the period immediately after the disaster. That should lead to an evaluation by the WODC. My group believes that these studies and the researchers should, above all, have every opportunity to do their work, in already extremely difficult circumstances. All we have to do is look at Minsk to know what the political context of all this is. Therefore, my group's assessment is that it is most likely that the bottom stone will emerge if these researchers arrive at independent, irrefutable and indisputable conclusions. Of course, we should not rule out anything for the future, but it seems to me simply premature to start a parliamentary inquiry now, in the course of these five investigations. I would like to comment on Mr Sjoerdsma's motion. My name isn't under there, simply because I wasn't asked. I would like to point out that it is a good thing that, after an extensive debate, we have now sought the way forward and, in concrete terms, we are looking for a way to ensure the safety of airspace better than has been the case so far. So, congratulations on that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mr. Chairman. The crux of this debate was the observation that everyone who had direct responsibility for this, and also those who had to rely on it, did not see a direct threat to civil aviation. And now we must all note that the absence of evidence of a civilian threat and the obvious presence of military losses have led to a civilian nightmare: a passenger plane containing 298 people who became war victims. Mr Sjoerdsma spoke about system thinking. I think he's right. We shall therefore support his motion to open consultations with the sector on this matter, which I think is a good idea. Many questions have been answered, but many still need to be answered, not by the Cabinet, but by the Independent Security Research Council and the Public Prosecutor. They must come up with conclusions and evidence that are objective, indisputable and indisputable. That requires patience, and that runs counter to our urge to control. Mr Bontes is making a different choice. He is asking for the use of the most serious weapon in our parliamentary arsenal: the parliamentary inquiry. He wants Parliament to sit in the chair of the Research Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Can we as the House of Representatives do research in Ukraine? Can we be witnesses all over the world? Can we collect criminal evidence? Can we take over research from the specialized research council? Can we do better than the professionals? I think the answer to that is "no." And if we did, we would do the ongoing investigations again or perhaps less well. However difficult it may be, whatever can be considered as evidence, evidence or accusation here in the Chamber or at home in the bank can be blown away in court or woven away in international fora. Is that what we want? Do we really want to do this in our will to do justice, to find out the truth, to have justice and to do research? I don't want that. I can trust that researchers from the Research Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office will receive all the documents, unpainted, uncensored, and I will also tell the Minister unsolicited. I want that firm commitment from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u10	Mr Ten Broeke suggested that the Chamber should sit on the chair of the researchers with this parliamentary inquiry. That is not the case at all. The purpose of this parliamentary survey is to monitor the steps taken by the government, because the government is not open and transparent. The government makes white pages with text all black. The government doesn't give any openness. The government is vague in its response. Mr Ten Broeke experienced this himself last Thursday. How can he say that we are going to sit in the investigators' chair? No, we want to be able to control this government. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u11	I'd love to, because the government's control takes place here every day. We do not need a parliamentary survey. That is why we have a parliament. Mr Bontes is in this Parliament and I am in it. That is why all these questions were asked last Thursday, and that is why 87 written questions were tabled at our request. That is what we are here for today, and we will probably be standing here very often for that. We have agreed on five investigations, and Mr Servaes has just listed them all, including an investigation into the way in which the government has acted so far. Then Mr Bontes must ask himself what is the addition of a parliamentary inquiry in which you can hear people under oath. If Mr Bontes only wants to question the government, I would point out that we are doing this here today. As far as I'm concerned, she's under oath now. When it comes to the question of responsibility and the question of guilt, which I believe are the central questions that we must answer objectively and indisputablely, we must leave them to the professionals. We cannot do that again with a parliamentary survey. In fact, we can even put it at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u12	So much for the Chamber's term. Mr Bontes, you are right, you were asked a question. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u13	This isn't right. The Research Council for Security does not investigate liability and that is crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u14	The deal. I know who does what and for what. That is why I have made that distinction and I have spoken about the research. In addition, we have made the Research Council for Security independent by law. So any request to the government is a little strange in that respect, because we ourselves have made it by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u15	I'm suspending until 11:25. The cabinet's gonna think about the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u16	Before I give the floor to the Foreign Minister, I would like to point out that we are in a bit of a time squeeze because we are about to talk about gas and Groningen. That is why I will allow every participant in this debate that is seven people to have one interruption, a maximum of two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u17	I hope I do not have to use it, but in view of the fact that we did not have the possibility of interruptions in the second period of the previous debate, I may wish to put a question to both directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u18	You've had an extensive general consultation. We're gonna listen to the Foreign Secretary now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their good and valuable contribution to the general discussion we held last week. As far as the great tragedy of the MH17 is concerned, we have said from the beginning that the bottom stone must come up and that the resolution of the MH17 disaster is the top priority. I think those two elements are essential. As is well known, this concerns the repatriation of the remains, the investigation into the consequences of the disaster and the criminal investigation. It is also very important that we have talked about the safety of airspace in the future, to which Mr Opstelten will refer in the absence of Mrs Mansveld. With regard to this openness, a number of questions have been asked in my direction. First of all, I come to Mr De Roon's motion on the confidentiality of the report of 14 July. I informed the Chamber on 23 January that the report itself will not be made public. In the Cabinet's view, reports of such briefings and other diplomatic contacts should be confidentially written and treated. That is the essence of diplomacy, if it is to be effective. At the time when the Netherlands publishes reports of such briefings, it can be imagined that the confidentiality of such contacts will be compromised. The likelihood of confidential and often very essential information being shared in the future will thus be considerably reduced, including the type of information you, as a Chamber, consider so important that it comes out. I think it is essential for the Netherlands that we continue to keep these briefings and that we continue to get that information that everyone here, I think, also thinks is necessary. Bearing in mind the wish of the Chamber to take the bottom line, the cabinet has reflected the spirit of the meeting and its report. So it means that we have mentioned the content of what is in it. I refer to the answer to question 23 of the questions of the standing committee. This has been done, as is customary in normal communication between government and Chamber on sound matters. We have information from our diplomatic posts and, of course, I am obliged to fully inform the Chamber of what is important. In addition, in order to remove any doubts about the nature and content of the meeting, the Cabinet made the report of the meeting available to the OVV, which will take this into account in the ongoing and independent investigation. The OVV is assisted by the CTIVD. The results of that investigation will also be shared with the Chamber. So there are actually two elements. The Court was informed of the content of that meeting through the answers to Question 23 of Parliament; that is a very comprehensive answer. If there is a need for it in one way or another, the Court can also take note of it later on through the conclusion of the various investigations that are being carried out. In that sense, I would reject Mr De Roon's motion. Then I come to the other point of openness. A motion has been tabled by Mr Bontes on a parliamentary survey. Of course, the government does not judge this, because the question of whether or not there should be a parliamentary inquiry is not a matter for the government but for the Chamber. I would like to say that the consideration which Mr Bontes refers to in his motion, that the cabinet does not want to open up many matters relating to the attack, does seem to me to be somewhat odd, given the five investigations that are under way and the extensive parliamentary questions. As far as diplomatic reports are concerned, too, I have done the best I can in diplomatic matters to reflect the essence of this. In that sense, I find it difficult to read this phrase in the motion in this way. I think that the government wants to give openness to research in every possible way, both in advance and afterwards. I would then like to comment on the question put by Mr Bontes about heavy anti-aircraft guns with a wide range. Apparently, the answer to his first-term question has become unclear. Of course, that is not the intention. I have read it again and I believe that the question has been answered precisely and accurately, both in the first and in the second term. However, I have no problem explaining it again, because I want to make no mistake about this and because the government is giving it full disclosure. What the government knew is in the answer to questions 23, 40 and 67. That's the information the government had. This concerns first of all the briefing on 14 July. I have indicated the essence of this, namely that there are defence guns in Ukraine. That has not been disguised at all and it has also emerged clearly in general consultation. I drew Mr Bontes' attention to this. There is no lack of openness. That is what we heard on 14 July, and that was reported to the Chamber in the debate, in general consultation last week and in the answer to question 23. In addition, there has been the well-known NATO briefing of General Breedlove. That's the second source of information. I'll be sure to bring up what we knew. The Chamber knew that too, because it was a public press conference. With your permission, Mr President, I will do so in English: 'What we see in training on the east side of the border is big equipment, tanks, APCs, anti-aircraft capability, and now we see those capabilities being used on the west side of the border'. It was added: "We have not seen any of the air-defence vehicles across the border yet." Summarizing: if it was asked whether the cabinet knew that heavy anti-aircraft guns with a large range were present in Eastern Ukraine, that was Mr Bontes' question, my answer is that, on the basis of the briefing of 14 July, it was possible to conclude that anti-aircraft guns were indeed present. I have also reported this, both publicly and in the written answer to the questions. However, it was unknown which weapon system had been used. The Ukrainians even talked a day later about the possibility that the Antonov had been shot down by another plane. Breedlove himself did not conclude on this either, as I have just said. That is the knowledge that the Cabinet has, and that is the knowledge that I have shared with the Chamber in general. If there is any misunderstanding, I would like to say again that this is the information that is available to me at least as far as I am aware. As is well known, the CTIVD is investigating, at the request of the OVV, what intelligence and security services knew prior to July 17th. The Court shall be informed of the outcome of this investigation. I say this quite clearly not to cover up again, where Mr Bontes is trying to create that atmosphere. In short: openness, clarity in response, and in so far as there may be any misunderstanding in the context of the general consultation, I have just said what I know is the knowledge of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u20	I'm getting a little blamed for creating a cover-up, and now there's only one who's creating a cover-up here, and that's the government itself. It removes sentences from documents, makes pieces in documents ink black, gives vague answers and is not transparent. The answer to the questions is vague. There was a clear difference in the general consultation between the first and the second term. In the first period, it was clearly stated that the government had no knowledge of heavy anti-aircraft weapons. This was acknowledged in the second period. It makes sense to ask questions about that, doesn't it? That sounds really strange about all of them, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u21	I have just given the Chamber a clear answer again. If there is a misunderstanding, I have now given the answer that was given in the first period. I'm fine with putting it forward again. I have nothing to hide in that and so I repeat my answer to Question 23 on the presence of anti-aircraft equipment in eastern Ukraine, and at the same time I repeat what Mr Breedlove said. I can't make it anymore. That is openness, that is clarity and that is the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the questions we had and had after the debate on the disaster with the MH17. Like Mr Koenders, I can also say that we have given the information we have and which we can and may give. I shall now turn to the answers to the questions. Then I'll highlight the two motions. I shall begin with Mr Omtzigt's questions. We have provided the information on the basis of the application of the WOB. The information provided shall consist of all documents. I am also saying this to Mr Ten Broeke. We've made all the documents available to the Security Research Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Let's be clear about that. I would also say to Mr Omtzigt that the decision lists are also available to the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Security Research Council, but of course they are confidential. That's obvious. We will not therefore make them available or send them to the Chamber. With regard to requests for legal aid, I would like to say what the Public Prosecutor's Office says about this: we are working hard on this. I have mentioned the general consultation of all the countries in which requests for legal aid are made. A similar request is also being made to the Americans. The clear agreement has been made that, if deemed necessary, the prosecution will call on me or others to provide assistance. I can tell Mr Omtzigt that the Public Prosecutor's Office is still able to do it through the proper processes. On the motion in part No. 32 I can also say on behalf of Secretary of State Mansveld that we feel this Sjoerdsma motion to support policy. I myself and Secretary of State Mansveld, of course, speak about aviation security policy. We have discussed this extensively with the aviation sector. The same applies to the ICAO proposals. This motion fits in with that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u23	So the verdict on the motion is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u24	Judgment of the Chamber: that may be clear. I always keep the judicium for the last time. Mr Omtzig's motion for a resolution 34 I must advise against. I shall now start with surprise with the judicium, because that is clear, given the attitude we have chosen and which, in our opinion, is self-evident in relation to the investigation. In general terms, I have said and I insist that the Public Prosecutor's Office should be given full space to conduct the investigation. I'll write the notes with the various possibilities for prosecution if they don't stand in the way of the prosecution's investigation. That's the line the State's Attorney's Office advised me about. I have been asked to choose this position and I fully agree with it. That's why I'm gonna end up the way I started, which is to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u25	The latter is no surprise, but it was the minister who said in October that he would come forward with a letter on the prosecution. Apparently, the D.A. said they could still do that. I therefore assumed that it was still possible for the possibility of prosecution to be indicated in good time. That has nothing to do with the question of who did it, but with the question of how we are going to bring the perpetrators to justice. If we do not do so, we will find ourselves in a very nasty situation where there is a suspect and Malaysia, the Netherlands, Ukraine and perhaps other countries are going to fight for which court he is coming. That seems undesirable to me, so I'm maintaining the motion. However, I still have a few unanswered questions that I still like to go through. Thank you for the commitment that you make the documents available, complete, unpainted and including decision lists that do exist. I'll put it between commas: if they exist, they should have been in the WOB request with a rejection. They weren't in there, and I think that's a little sloppy. I assume that they will be made available to the third research that is now in the tender at the WODC. That's where these pieces belong. I assume this was a minor omission; I also see the Minister nodding, because he must have them at least. However, I would ask that the documents be sent to the Chamber, as far as possible in the provision of information to the Chamber. Then we must also consider whether some black areas, especially in the case of the fact sheets, are no longer being blackmailed, so that the Chamber has the information available. Those were two questions for the Minister of Security and Justice. I had the question to the Foreign Minister whether he provided the Chamber with the full list of insecurity indications, or whether there are any ICAO AFTNs or confidential NATO briefings? That question may be answered separately in writing, but was this an exhaustive list, or was this the list of cases that have so far come to the attention of the Chamber on the insecurity of the airspace in eastern Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr Omtzigt's first point is correct. I did agree to that. I even mentioned a date in a momentum. I have come back to that on substantive grounds, and we have handled it well in the AA. I'll do it. I also think it is important that we share this with the Chamber at the moment when the prosecution gives the opportunity to do so without hindering the investigation. I think Mr Omtzigt has confidence in that. I also offered to the Chamber that, at a time appropriate for the prosecution, the D.A. would be willing to give a confidential briefing to the Chamber once. With regard to the WOB, I can say that the WOB has been applied in terms of law, including on all the details. I'll confirm that again. The pieces of course also go to the WODC and the pieces do not go to the Lower House in unpainted form, because they are confidential. That is the essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u27	Thank you for the commitment that the unpainted pieces, including the decision list, will also go to the WODC. I would ask you to send the documents to the Chamber. I understand that certain pieces are painted, I do not want to have private information from certain persons; they are not included; we do not need to have them. But if you disclose documents in this sensitive file, send them to the Chamber with as few black spots as possible. As an example, I mentioned that the facts should not be blacked out; certain policy ideas should be blackmailed. I hope to get an answer to the last question put to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely the question of an exhaustive overview of what signals of insecurity in Eastern Ukraine's airspace were available to the government before 17 July. Were there also AFTNs from ICAO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u28	I maintain my view that we have applied the WOB to the WOB request. There is no reason to send these documents to the Chamber in a different way. There is no reason for that and it is not common practice. In this dossier, I would not want to do that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you. I would ask the Foreign Minister to stand up; his microphone is not working yet. Sorry about the change, but the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u30	The request made by Mr Omtzigt is essentially the same as I have just made. The Minister said earlier that it is very unusual in current criminal cases to speak to the Public Prosecutor again. I appreciate that. I know that many colleagues find this unusual, but we still want to take that step. It is incredibly important that we, where we ourselves cannot see any documents, can mandate this to the Research Council and the Public Prosecutor. They should be able to let the Minister, but also us know this. We want them to have all the pieces unpainted, uncensored and unsolicited.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u31	That's what I just said. It can't be asked often enough. The answer to that is "yes" in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u32	President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u33	I have reported what information the Cabinet had on airspace, based on the aforementioned two elements that were answered in response to the previous questions. I really have nothing to add to that. Any other material that I have no knowledge of, will of course also be transferred to the OVV and other bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u34	I have already allowed you to interrupt, Mr Omtzigt. Just one short sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u35	I therefore have to conclude that, in addition to the signals discussed, no other signals have emerged in the government over the last 200 days, for example on confidential NATO information or on ICAO briefings with AFTNs or NOTAMs, which would still indicate insecurity of the airspace in Eastern Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u36	I have indicated what I know is the information that exists. Of course, there is also an independent investigation into whether all this is correct and whether all the available information has been used. That's what the O.V.V. is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr Sjoerdsma, brief, pointy and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u38	I have another question for the Minister of Justice about my motion. He seemed to suggest that it was about ICAO and the initiative that Mrs Mansveld supports, but I want to make it very clear that this is about something that is not happening at the moment. I want to consult directly with the Dutch aviation sector on the risks, the information gathering and the role of the Dutch Government in this. So that is not international, it is national.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u39	I call the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u40	I read the motion very carefully. We are, of course, constantly discussing these issues, also in the wake of the terrible disaster with the MH17. As a cabinet, therefore, we can say that we leave the judicium, the judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u41	On all these motions, we will be voting out our judicum tonight. I would like to thank the two directors for their presence.
