ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u1	It is the turn of the speaker on the side of D66, as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. He asked for 20 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr President, thank you for my turn. The reporting obligation data leaks and extension administrative penalty power is an important bill for the protection of personal data and finally it is there. Finally, because it took a very long time before the cabinet came out of the coalition agreement with its promise. Meanwhile, the need for both a reporting obligation and a penalty for the College protection personal data has grown spectacularly. Technological developments are blowing our heads off. Information is becoming increasingly important and making our lives easier, but we also pay a price for it. More and more of our personal data are requested, recorded and exchanged. They expose a lot of who we are, what we do, when and even with whom. The grip on those own data about who knows or might find out about you, a lot of citizens lose more and more. That is worrying, because the right to privacy is a fundamental right of nearly 17 million people in our free society. A fundamental right deserves to be taken seriously and to be protected from abuse and carelessness. Parties who attach importance to this data protection called on the Secretary of State several times: stop stalling and come up with a fine, give the privacy watchdog teeth as well. That is why we are here today, namely to give the privacy watchdog teeth. Too often it goes wrong and too often rules are not complied with or the supervisor is not able to maintain enough. The big question now is, of course, whether this legislative proposal meets this long-cherished wish. Does this bill now provide for a competent regulator who can act decisively with a necessary and enforceable reporting obligation? Does the power to impose fines have the desired deterrent, preventive effect? Looking at everything, the D66 group fears that it is not yet ready. The Secretary of State presents a privacy watchdog that is equipped with a wrapper teeth. It doesn't really blink yet. It's like I'm trying to move myself a little in the language of the Secretary of State. A police officer who has to catch the bad guys with his hands tied behind his back. And the Secretary of State himself knows that doesn't work. I would therefore like to refer in turn to the power of fines, the ministerial approval, the obligation to notify and not to mention the name of the Personal Data Protection Board. First of all, I'm gonna give you the fine. The whole idea of sanctioning is that of robust external supervision. That's what I'm saying to an organization like the FNV, who sent an intrusive letter about it to this Chamber. Strong enforcement of the rules of the Personal Data Protection Act so that that law does not become a wash nose, outdated by technology or undermined by poor enforcement. Criminal law as a protector of privacy, as a stick behind the door with this proposal disappears a bit more into the background, because all good is sought in the administrative penalty. In itself, that is fine, but what good will it do if an administrative fine cannot be imposed immediately and if a binding indication has to be given in virtually all cases? Is the supervisor not losing that robustness as data processors know that they can get rid of it first with a warning? I think that's wrong number one in the current bill. The binding designation that is always necessary before a fine can be imposed must be removed. What exactly is needed for administrative design? When is an infringement so serious that the supervisor is allowed to impose a fine immediately? And can the supervisor soon also take into account the nature of an offence, the characteristics of an offence, the degree of culpability or repeated violations? What if it's data from vulnerable groups, like children? Does that mean it's more serious? If the offender has data processing as his main activity and is therefore not unknown in this area, is it more serious? How does the degree of carelessness, carelessness or inappropriate action weigh? And what if the offender repeatedly violates the privacy law? In short, what scope does the bill provide for all those considerations which should make the imposition of fines more careful rather than rigid? My group proposes that we do not require the binding designation as an intermediate step, and that we do not merely attach the power of penalty to concepts such as 'design' and'serious culpable negligence', as included in the amendment of the Labour Party and the VVD. We are making this proposal together with the Christian Union Group. The powers must be carefully and adequately applied. Above all, people will need to know exactly what the rules are and what they can expect if they do not follow the rules. They don't get that out of the law. This can instantly only be based on the guidelines and policies of the College for the Protection of Personal Data. They are crucial to this. My great fear is that if we now formulate the law too narrowly by including in the legislative text all kinds of restrictions on when the College of Protection can immediately proceed to a fine, unnecessarily restricting the necessary customization and creating all kinds of legalization that my group does not want. My group therefore wants to know from the Secretary of State exactly what the objection is if we regulate the escalation of the penalty mechanism in the policy rules, and keep the legislative proposal free from any restriction on that point. The court may order protection of personal data to the College if the standard is not sufficiently clear or known to the data subject. In my group's view, these are the guarantees for correct, careful, well-known and foreseeable applications. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's reaction. The other point is the ministerial approval. We have already made extensive correspondence on this in the written preparation. Guidelines and policy rules of the supervisors need the agreement of two ministers. That's a good point. With the sanctioning power, the College will have personal data protection in one hand. That is, of course, a point of interest. The question is, how are you going to legalize that? Can ministers responsible for privacy law be involved in further standards set by a national supervisory authority that includes ministers themselves? In other words, can the Minister approve or establish rules to which he, as a government body, should also comply himself? That seems to my group to be a bit of a twisted construction. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure the independence of the supervisor when these ministers are involved in the application of privacy standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u3	I would like to make a brief clarification of the amendment to item No. 19, because I heard Mr Schouw just say that the mandatory intermediate step of the binding designation does not need to be taken as far as he is concerned. But if I understand the amendment correctly, it says that non-compliance with a binding designation is punishable. It's not gonna be left out in there, is it? Or am I reading that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u4	What I want to do is to go along with Mr Van Wijngaarden's reasoning on behalf of his group in his amendment concerning serious culpable negligence, because I believe that these concepts constitute a huge restriction on the front of the direct penalty that the College should have protection of personal data because of the deterrent effect. In other words, this is a preventive effect. Now Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment seeks to limit this preventive effect. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u5	I very much appreciate Mr Schouw's comment on the other amendment, but I actually had a question about this amendment, namely the amendment on item No. 19 of him and Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u6	You're saying your question hasn't been answered. Let us then ask Mr Schek if he thinks he has answered the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u7	I thought I had my whole set of amendments with me, just the amendment to part No. 19, I just didn't bring it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u8	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u9	What was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u10	You have just indicated that, as far as you are concerned, there is no need for this mandatory intermediate step. I read it in such a way that it says here that you want to make it punitive if that intermediate step, that binding indication, is not complied with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u11	Yeah, but that's as far as we're concerned. That is why I also referred to your amendment, because you want the same thing, but you make it very restrictive, which, in my opinion, limits the effectiveness of the College's protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u12	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u13	The mandatory ministerial approval applies to new and existing supervisory guidelines. What if one of the six existing guidelines is not adopted? What does that mean for the performance of the College's protection of personal data in the past? Can the Secretary of State respond to that? How long does such an approval process take and how do we deal with the mid-term update of guidelines? What are the European implications of this proposal? Because if I read the reaction of the Personal Data Protection Board correctly, it shows that it is clear that this will lead to an intergroup procedure, because the approval requirement is contrary to the independence of privacy control. Can the Secretary of State rule out that risk? Mr Segers and I have a solution in the form of an amendment to delete the ministerial approval and to avoid the appearance of conflict of interest. I would like to comment on this point. Then there is the reporting obligation, because where data is collected, there is the risk of data leaks. As data collection has increased dramatically, the risks of failure are also increasing. Citizens' data may be placed on the streets, hacked, abused or resold to third parties. If we want to adequately protect personal data and act if it goes wrong, then a reporting obligation for data leaks now and for the future is simply necessary. My group therefore does not understand why the Secretary of State has rigorously amended his original legislative proposal to the detriment of citizens' privacy. If we limit the obligation to report to the most serious cases, then we will not dampen the well until the calf has drowned. A reporting obligation has added value in cases where the serious consequences have not yet occurred but are threatening. That is why, together with the PvdA and VVD groups, we have tabled an amendment which strengthens the protection of privacy and at the same time keeps the reporting obligation workable for data processors. In doing so, we insist that the data processors within the organisation keep an overview of at least the serious infringements that also have a reporting obligation. Such a track record keeps the data processor sharp on his data security. Citizens, consumers and clients are entitled to know whether their personal data are safe, or are subject to ongoing serious infringements or threats thereof. The Secretary of State will have seen the amendment by now. What does he think of this intermediate variant? We have also supported an amendment dealing with encrypted data. I assume that will be explained by one of the proposers shortly. Finally, I have the point of the name. The College for Protection of Personal Data also receives a new name, the Authority for Personal Data, as we read between the nose and the lips in the bill. That's good. My group has been asking for a different interpretation, which is more in line with the firm position of a supervisor. As we have the Consumer & Market Authority and the Financial Markets Authority, privacy also deserves a real authority. In Europe, the "data protection authority" has been discussed for a long time, a strong combination of the privacy regulator's position and core role. However, we do not have that protection in the Secretary of State's proposal, which is the essence. My group therefore proposes that the name should be more precise. We would like to transform the College's protection of personal data into the Data Protection Authority. This seems to us to be much more in line with European concepts, the 'data protection authority'. Moreover, there can be no misunderstanding, not even in terms of name. I'm rounding up. We have long been looking forward to this bill. It's good that it's there. There is a need for a privacy watchdog with teeth, but there should be two more changes to the bill. Firstly, we would like the ministerial approval to be removed from this bill. For this, the Christian Union and D66 have prepared an amendment. Secondly, we do not want any major restrictions on the College's protection of personal data to proceed directly to a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. Following a number of incidents involving the release of personal data due to a breach of website security, with adverse consequences for data subjects' privacy, the Secretary of State has come up with the bill we are discussing today. The bill introduces a reporting obligation in the Personal Data Protection Act, the Wbp. At present, the security obligation of Article 13 Wbp applies. That provision requires the controller to take appropriate technical and organisational measures to protect personal data against loss or any form of unlawful processing. The proposed reporting obligation for data leaks is closely linked to this security obligation. If the security is breached, there is in some cases a duty to notify the person responsible for the management and/or processing of the personal data. The focus of this reporting obligation is on leaking personal data due to security problems. In the event of a serious breach of the measures taken to safeguard personal data, the controller, i.e. the person processing the data, should report that infringement to the supervisory authority under the proposed Article 34a, i.e. the College for Protection of Personal Data. The obligation to notify shall apply only in the case of an infringement which has serious adverse effects on the protection of personal data. Furthermore, there will be an increase in the penalty power of the Personal Data Protection College, the CBP. According to the bill, the CBP can impose an administrative fine of up to €450,000, but with the condition that a binding designation has first been given, with a time limit within which the designation must be followed. A fine may only be imposed immediately in exceptional cases, i.e. immediately and without warning or without any binding indication, if there is a deliberate and knowingly committed infringement of the Wbp. The PVV has a strong interest in the protection of personal data and believes that security breaches should be avoided as far as possible. If there is such an infringement, we must of course report it as soon as possible. My group therefore looks positively at the legislative proposal. However, it still has a number of questions for the Secretary of State before it can take a final position. The first question is the following. In the original legislative proposal, the obligation to notify was conditional upon a serious infringement which can reasonably be presumed to lead to a significant risk of loss or unlawful processing of personal data. That has changed in the letter of amendment. Now the condition is that there must be an infringement with serious adverse consequences. If we read this literally, my group believes that the threshold for reporting obligations has been raised. There is no longer a "significant opportunity" but a "serious impact." I conclude from this that the consequences must have already occurred. That's how I read it. Is that right and, if so, why has this changed? It is precisely the reporting obligation that should stimulate the proper protection of personal data. The PVV considers that this incentive is partly lost if only serious adverse effects need to be reported. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PVV? I come to my second question. According to the government, the CBP should have "sufficient teeth" as a supervisor. Therefore, the legislative proposal provides that in a number of cases the CBP does not first have to give a binding indication. The CBP therefore does not need to warn, may act immediately and may impose a fine or even a heavy fine immediately. I said earlier that this is only allowed if there is a deliberate violation of the Wbp. However, this is somewhat like a dead letter, because proof of intent or of deliberate action seems to me almost impossible in practice. The only example I can think of so quickly is the one we saw some time ago when patients from the VUmc on arrival in the emergency room were still in a weak position without prior authorisation. I see Mr Van Wijngaarden wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u15	I can see that, too. You're lucky you took a break. That gives Mr Van Wijngaarden the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mrs Helder says that the threshold for reporting in the amended legislative proposal is going to be very high. What does she think of the Schouw c.s amendment in this respect? in piece No. 18, where that threshold is lowered slightly again? That amendment states that it must be a data breach that leads to a significant risk of serious adverse effects or a data breach that has serious adverse effects on the protection of personal data. In that amendment, therefore, the "opportunity" actually comes back. I am curious to hear Mrs Helder's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u17	I can, however, deal with all those amendments which deal with these terms, or would like to amend them. It concerns'significant opportunity', 'disputable action','seriously culpable action' and'seriously culpable omission'. That's what you're always doing in this case. My group believes that the bill should have prevented that. If you think a supervisor should have teeth, you have to come up with something that is clear that the supervisor can do something with it. My question here is whether you can prove that there has been deliberate action. There are several groups that want to change that threshold. My question would also be: can you prove that there has been a deliberate act of malice and a culpable omission? I can think of situations, but this is precisely a case-law which I think should have been regulated by the law itself, so that the CBP can work with it. As far as my group is concerned, the fact that we are already discussing it indicates that this can be demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u18	Does Mrs Helder therefore agree with me that, as a co-legislator, we have a responsibility here to ensure that we still have a text that we can live well with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u19	We are indeed co-legislator, but if there is something that you are already wondering about before you stand here whether the goal will be achieved. Then I would come up with my own initiative proposal. I think you should take responsibility for yourself. My group believes that what is to be achieved is a positive idea, but has serious questions as to whether this is going to happen. If we have to amend all that, I hope the Secretary of State will give his opinion on it shortly. On this basis, my group can adopt its position on a positive basis. That's all I can make of it. Mr. Chairman. I was just at the end of the example. If the government really wants to give the CBP some teeth, there he is again, then something about the law has to be changed. Colleagues are trying to do that with an amendment, and I am trying to do so with questions to the Secretary of State. On the one hand, the government comes up with some kind of yellow card in the form of a binding designation, but I believe that the CPVO already has that possibility, but it is not called a binding designation. On the other hand, the exception is created that the binding designation may be omitted and a fine imposed immediately. The threshold is very high, given the design criterion. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PVV? I'd like to hear the answer to that. In this context, I also pay attention to European legislation, even my group. Because there's no way around that. At European level, too, new regulations on the reporting obligation for data leaks: the General Data Protection Regulation, or the General Data Protection Regulation. That Regulation lays down the general obligation to report data leaks. That regulation has direct effect, so it does not need to be transposed into national law and can therefore somewhat destroy the legislative proposal we are discussing today. The negotiations on this regulation are ongoing, but we already know that it does not distinguish between leaks and leaks without serious consequences. However, the bill does. Is it not better not to distinguish between the consequences of the leak and to align it with a broader reporting obligation or does the Secretary of State think otherwise? For the sake of completeness, everyone will know that my group always says that you have to regulate nationally what you want to regulate nationally. So she also thinks that the Secretary of State should do so himself. Although the PVV Group agrees with the government that a supervisory authority should be able to act firmly, I have just said that we have a positive attitude towards the legislative proposal, she finds it strange that the CBP itself fulfils the condition I have just mentioned and which has had serious consequences, but that the CBP is therefore also the body that imposes the fine. In other words: the standard will be applied by the authority which also imposes the penalty. That's a bit like "we at WC-End..." you know it all. The PVV therefore wants to know what the Secretary of State thinks about this. Does he see that danger? If not, why not? Is the danger sufficiently framed by the mandatory ministerial approval of the guidelines adopted by the CPVO in order to implement the standards it itself maintains? We received a letter about this three days ago. Finally, I have a technical point. The proposed Article 34a (4) of the Wbp provides that the notification to the CBP includes more elements than a notification of the infringement to the data subject, i.e. whose data it concerns. This is mainly about data of a technical nature. According to the explanatory memorandum, this allows the CPVO to exercise supervision more effectively. But is this not something that requires more technical knowledge than the CBP has in mind, partly in view of the rapid changes in this area? If so, why is no assistance provided by, for example, the National Cyber Security Centre? If the government wants a regulator with teeth, it must also ensure that the knowledge is available or is easy to consult. Does the Secretary of State agree with the PVV? If so, is he willing to take care of this? I'll finish with the summary. I come to the conclusion that the bill is well-intentioned, but that it clearly has two thoughts: more teeth for the supervisor, but with the likelihood that it cannot bite enough. To stay in the metaphor only a little bit, I'm going to do one throw. It's a bit like those teeth that you turn on and bounce on your table very nicely, then they fall off. Everyone likes that, but nothing happens, except that we've had some fun. Of course, that cannot be the intention. Anyway, the bill can count on the PVV's sympathy, I say again. I await the answer to the questions with interest before adopting a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my colleague Mr Gesthuizen, who cannot be present because of circumstances. The right to privacy is a very important fundamental right. The SP strongly supports the introduction of the reporting obligation for data leaks, as it is very important for data subjects whose personal data are leaked to be informed. Then they can take measures themselves to protect themselves against breaches of their privacy and fear identity fraud. It is also good that it is arranged that a data breach is also reported to the College Protection Personal Data, our privacy watchdog. The introduction of the reporting obligation should contribute to maintaining and restoring trust in the handling of personal data. That's what it takes. At present, many people do not have sufficient confidence in the careful handling of their personal data. They often feel they do not know where their personal data are. What is being gathered about me? Who can do that? Are you sure that data is safe? Again, it is a good thing that data leak reporting is introduced, but today we are talking about a watered-down law. First, a data breach had to be reported to the Personal Data Protection College if it could reasonably be assumed that the leak would lead to a significant risk of adverse effects. However, since the government considered this regulation somewhat vague afterwards, the consequences must now be seriously detrimental, which has seriously weakened the legislative proposal. There is now an amendment tabled by Mr Schouw et al. in piece No. 18 to adjust this. My group is in principle in favour of this, although it may not go far enough. We must prevent an incentive to ensure a safe and therefore secure environment from disappearing. In the event of adverse effects which cannot be classified as serious, an authority has nothing to fear from the CPVO. However, the data subject or the victim is all the more concerned by the consequences of these data leaks. Moreover, if I read and understand the provisions of Article 34a correctly, there may be a bit of a crazy situation. Victims must be informed by authorities and companies involved in data leaks if there are likely to be adverse effects. This threshold is less high. This means that a data breach must be reported to the data subject, but not to the Personal Data Protection College. Then what else do you have a supervisor for? The CBP itself writes that the notification will be the character of the well that is muffled when the calf has already been drowned, as has already been said. The preventive role for the regulator in the original legislative proposal has completely disappeared following the letter of amendment. What does the Secretary of State think of this situation? Isn't that crazy? If this is not the intention, can he explain how we should read these articles? The Personal Data Protection Board may still instruct parties to inform the data subject, but that would no longer make any sense under the new legislative proposal. A report with serious adverse consequences is, in advance, and therefore always, an adverse effect. The person concerned must already be informed. The problem is that the CBP itself is not informed of a report with "only" adverse effects, which are not serious. A party will not then be encouraged to learn from any mistakes made. After all, the regulator is no longer given the opportunity to assess whether the technical protection measures taken are adequate? Why did the Secretary of State water down the bill so much on this point? The original wording to be reported if it can reasonably be assumed that it leads to a significant risk of adverse effects has not encountered criticism from the Personal Data Protection Board. So that can work with it or at least lay down guidelines, as it always does. In addition, we have the obligation to report in Article 11, 3a (1) of the Telecommunications Act, which talks about adverse effects. There's nothing serious about this. The word "serious" does not appear in that. Why didn't the Secretary of State join us? I come to the following point: data encryption. The leaking of encrypted data also does not need to be reported. That's weird, isn't it? Encrypted data is also simply decryptable and not necessarily unusable. According to the SP, it also works preventively if it is clear that such data leaks must be reported. It is a good thing that the amendment on item No. 14 has been submitted. I had the same question as Mrs Helder. The CPB should draw up guidelines on encryption. Why isn't the National Cyber Security Center requested for this? That has the expertise for this, doesn't it? Now for the security breach. This bill talks about data leaks following a security breach. What exactly is "security breach"? From the answers of the Secretary of State, I understand that every data breach is covered, because no one is stupid enough not to secure their network or system. But what if someone is unwise? Either there is no breach of security, but only unauthorized access. In my group's view, the Secretary of State is a little vague about this. He argues that such examples go beyond the legal framework for the protection of personal data. This is also true if unauthorised access leads to serious adverse consequences for those concerned. Is that also outside the scope of this bill? For example, take hospital staff who know a doctor's password and can access all medical records unauthorizedly. There will be no breach of security, but it can certainly have serious adverse consequences. Another example is an employer who gives himself unauthorized access to his employee's computer to collect information for the dismissal of that employee. Another example is medical records. I would like a comprehensive explanation on this point. When is there a security breach? Companies and bodies dealing with a data breach do not need to keep track of this, no matter how often it happens. This makes it difficult for the CBP to keep an overview and to exercise control. There's no way it can keep up with all this on its own. In this way too, monitoring becomes more difficult. I would like to comment on this point. I believe that the amendment tabled by Mr Schouw et al. in piece No. 18 a solution for this. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State on this. The SP would also like to know how this law relates to the European Data Protection Regulation. This Regulation refers to an infringement of personal data but not to serious adverse effects. This regulation has not yet entered into force, but what if it does? What consequences does that have for this law? A few comments on the administrative fine and the binding designation. The SP has been calling for a privacy watchdog with sharp teeth for a long time; thus for a wider penalty. The CBP is now given an administrative penalty. The SP is happy with that, but isn't that entirely with the way it works. A fine may only be imposed directly if there is a deliberate and knowingly committed violation of the Personal Data Protection Act. Isn't this how it turned out to be a dead letter? Doesn't this bring unfeasible evidence? Why only on purpose? As a kind of interim solution, a binding designation is possible on the advice of the Council of State. What's that for? Isn't that how it's dead? Because we already have the burden under penalty. I would think that the Personal Data Protection Board should be able to give a red card and not just a yellow card. I would have liked to give the same example of VUmc and television recordings, but that has already been described in detail. It wasn't done on purpose, but it was very sloppy. The CBP would like to impose an administrative fine, because evil is as it is done. The government would then say, on the basis of this bill, that a binding designation must first be given. What else do you want to impose? That they're destroying the camera footage? That privacy violation can no longer be undone. There is no direct penalty for serious offences that are not intentional. We think that would be good. Why doesn't the Secretary of State choose to make the fine possible if it is established whether it is very likely that the offender knew or should have known that he was breaking the law, or that he acted in such careless, careless and unjudged ways that offence would be the inevitable consequence? If that's not the case, we'll always have the burden of penalty payments. Moreover, the binding designation has added value alongside the other instruments, if a penalty charge is still too far-reaching. The College Protection Personal Data is now obliged to impose it. In our proposal, the CBP should be allowed to decide for itself. I'd like to hear a response to this idea. Another argument is that the draft privacy regulation does not contain an obligation to impose a binding designation prior to the imposition of a fine. Why do we do this in the Netherlands? How is this settled in other countries? In view of the questions I am raising here, it will not be surprising that we are in favour of the Schouw and Segers amendment to item No. 19. The guidelines that the College makes protection of personal data are currently widely submitted for consultation. The Ministry will also see them in advance. The CBP holds the final responsibility. As far as I know, this has never led to criticism. The government is now demanding that they be able to pre-check guidelines from the CBP. Why now this interference? What's this for? The government and the Council of State believe that the CBP should be given a far-reaching sanction. Protection of personal data is a fundamental right and therefore public interference on this scale would be justified. The SP sees this differently. The CBP is an independent regulator, also because it supervises the government itself. It's the judge who can control the CBP. Has it ever had to intervene, according to the Secretary of State, so that intervention is now required in advance? Why is this being chosen now? Moreover, this seems to be contrary to the requirement of independence laid down in Article 28 of the European Privacy Directive and in relevant case law of the European Court of Justice. According to the Personal Data Protection Board, this provision could lead to infringement proceedings. That's intense. What does the Secretary of State think if this were so? How does he estimate that risk? That's the way I'm supposed to ask. I can say in advance that there is an amendment which has our warm sympathy, which concerns the Segers/Schouw amendment. 13. Finally, some comments on the capacity of the Personal Data Protection College. It now has about 125 employees. That's not very much. What about regulators, privacy watchdogs, in other countries? Is it true that these have relatively more capacity? The CBP has recommended that in the short term the management consequences of the introduction of the reporting obligation be identified and that the results be reflected in the budget of the Personal Data Protection Board. This didn't happen. The CBP is already very busy. The Secretary of State expects the consequences of this bill to be brief. This says enough about the scope of the reporting obligation and the administrative fine. What does he mean by "summer"? Can he elaborate on that? How is this monitored? When will it be evaluated? Is the government prepared to update if it turns out that, by introducing this law, the college does not meet the current number of people? I have read that, one year after the entry into force of the European Data Protection Regulation, we will receive a report on the effectiveness and impact of this law in practice. The first problem, in my view, is that we do not know when it will be, because the negotiations are not yet going very fast. I'm still being careful about expressing myself. The second question is whether that report really takes into account the capacity of the College for protecting personal data and whether it is in line with the number of people there in relation to the amount of work that this bill has produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u21	The question is whether the SP believes that what people have in their bank accounts belongs to the private sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'd be serious if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u23	Then how do you explain your colleague Merkies' proposal to make an asset register mandatory in which individuals must indicate how much power they have and how much profit they make on it, as they did very recently?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u24	I have indeed heard that my colleague Merkies has made that proposal. I find it difficult to answer that in this way. I think it is good that the privacy aspects are also taken into account. That seems obvious to me. We do that with a lot of proposals. I think Mr Van Wijngaarden knows the background to this proposal, knowing our group. We want, of course, to do something about the imbalance in power distribution in the Netherlands. Once again, no matter what is proposed, we must always look at the privacy aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr. Chairman. In many ways, personal data is processed by governments and other organisations. This has been happening for as long as there are governments and other organisations. In our digitized society, the amount of information has increased exponentially. In addition to all the beautiful aspects that this offers, such as reducing administrative burdens, simplifying processes and so on, there are also shadow sides. This afternoon we are talking about such a shadowy side. How can it be prevented from being broken into databases or abused if mistakes have been made? After all, important personal or financial data may be involved. I would like to raise three points. Firstly, I will deal with the obligation to notify, secondly, I will deal with sanctions, and thirdly, I will say a few words about prevention. I'll start with the duty of reporting. Good data protection is absolutely necessary. The SGP therefore welcomes the need to report a data breach in certain cases. That is what this bill requires. This provides the possibility, where necessary, to restore or confirm the trust of the public, customers, the market, the government or the supervisors in the institution or company concerned. In the written rounds, the proposal was criticised on several points. The SGP has the impression that this has improved the final proposal. The standards have been clarified and indicate less vaguely who should report what when and in which cases. One of the issues raised is whether there is a need for a notification in all cases or only if there are certain risks. The SGP considers that the clause proposed in the first letter of amendment to limit it to notifications that have serious adverse effects on the security of personal data is a good criterion. In our opinion, it takes too far to report literally any minor problems. That makes it incriminating for those involved. It raises unnecessary doubts about the reliability of systems and unnecessarily burdenes the College on personal data protection. A certain distinction in advance seems necessary to us. Are there or are there no substantial consequences for those concerned? The exception for a reporting obligation of encrypted data in the first letter of amendment raises further questions with the SGP. Data encryption in itself offers a better level of protection than unencrypted data, but risks remain. Is it always clear when appropriate measures have been taken? In its answers to questions from the Chamber, the government states that the exception is a strict standard. In the event of identified security problems, an obligation to report will arise. Does the concept of "appropriate" provide sufficient clarity in all cases? Then I come to my second point, the sanctions. The standards of the law require further clarification in practice. It is only logical that the CBP should develop guidelines for this. The question is whether these guidelines should not be enshrined in the law in one way or another, so that the basic rules are known to everyone through law and AMvB. The government says it doesn't want to choose. In the second letter of amendment, however, there is an indirect provision for this in Article 67. The policy rules on which sanctions are possible do require the approval of the Minister. It seems that this creates a rather special construction, in which there is not literally an AMvB with rules but approved rules by the Minister. Why was this somewhat special construction chosen? This is also our main focus in the second letter of amendment, which proposes an extension of the possibilities of using an administrative fine by the CPVO. We support that possibility. It is good if the standards can be properly enforced, if necessary through such an administrative penalty. However, to what extent is it acceptable to do so is to answer a question which has already been put by one of my colleagues, namely that standards and sanctions are in one hand? Is there now more clarity as to whether this can be done in European law? In the opinion of the Secretary of State, is the proposed regulation sufficient? My third point concerns prevention. It must be clear to public authorities in particular that in all cases personal data must be prevented from lying on the streets. These institutions have a special responsibility. They have an exemplary role, you might say. Is the Secretary of State sure that all his colleagues are always sufficiently aware of this? Does this bill really mean a greater awareness of the risks for the public institutions? We also call for attention to be paid to information about the risks and the solutions. The SGP calls on the State Secretary to continue to point out to the public and businesses in order to promote social alertness. The CBP can also play an important role in this respect. Does the Secretary of State share that approach? We can't avoid it: sometimes people themselves work on making their most personal data available, for example by filling out a 26-page survey form, asking them about their preferences, possessions, purchases, debts and so on. These data are then neatly stored on zip code in databases. The reward for filling out such a survey I have never done so, but I suspect that this will take at least half an hour... is the pencil that has been delivered in advance. Perhaps the Secretary of State could use that pencil as a symbol in a campaign to promote public awareness of the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with a question. What is the agreement between having privacy and having a bike? However, I must say that I am addressing this question from my somewhat coloured Amsterdam perspective. As one knows, Amsterdammers are anything but thriving on their bikes, until their bike is gone. Then the world is too small. With privacy, it's not much different. People do not worry about this either on a daily basis. We almost all agree to the privacy conditions of apps and games on phones without having seen them. A woman even agreed to privacy terms in which it was a joke that she would give away her child, which she had not seen. However, if it turns out that private data is no longer private, then the vote will change quickly and rightly so. Nevertheless, it is also right and understandable that privacy for most people does not come first of what they worry about every day. Although people are also responsible for thinking about what data they share with whom, you cannot reasonably expect them to monitor the way governments and companies handle their personal data. That is precisely why we have a body such as the CBP, which will soon be called the Authority's personal data, if it is allowed to continue to be called that. The VVD Group appreciates that this bill supports the fact that CBP is primarily there to help prevent and close data leaks, and not to pass as many fines as possible. We want a privacy machine, not a penance machine. It is therefore good that, in principle, public institutions and companies should first be given a remedy through the appeal-labeled mandatory designation. After all, with fines, you don't close data leaks. The VVD strongly believes that risks in the security of data that are not significant do not need to be reported. No one's waiting for a reporting circus. This limits the potential administrative burden on business and public authorities to cases where the privacy of the individual is effectively at stake. It must really be about the disappearance of personal data or unauthorized access to those data where there is a fear of adverse consequences. I have some outstanding questions. How does the request for ministerial approval of policies of the CBP that give substance to a fine relate to the requirement of a dependent privacy authority? Mr Segers and Mr Schouw have tabled an amendment on this point. In my view, this is about finding the right balance. On one side of the scale lies the comment of the Council of State that a ruler must be responsible and involved. In my view, the Council of State rightly stresses that this is a fundamental matter that affects society as a whole. On the other side of the scale, however, the CBP strongly draws our attention to the requirement of independence laid down in Article 28 of the European Privacy Directive and in the case law of the European Court of Justice. The EU is still discussing this issue, so I would like a view from the Secretary of State on this issue. As mentioned above, the EU is still discussing a new Data Protection Regulation. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to compare the present legislative proposal with the final content of this regulation as soon as it is known, in order to avoid undesirable national headlines. Is he willing to do that? The negotiations on the European pathway are still ongoing. A possible entry into force will not take place before 2018. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the co-operation between the CBP and the Cyber Security Center has been secured, so that we can respond quickly and effectively to privacy risks associated with new forms of technology that allow data analysis. Is this cooperation structurally secured? Can the CBP really count on full cooperation from the Cyber Security Center? Data previously considered to be insensitive may become sensitive by means of new analysis. I come to the publication and press policy of the CBP. Excerpts from the CBP can have a major impact on the reputation of a company or a public institution. That is often inevitable. However, it is undesirable that there should be avoidable publicity damage on top of the punitive measure of a fine. Therefore, I would like to point out that the current policy rules for disclosure by the CBP, published in the Official Journal of 14 November 2013, no. 31433, obviously not yet provided for a policy of disclosure with regard to the administrative fine. That power has not yet been conferred on the CPVO. The question is therefore: how will the CBP weigh up the interests of the parties in the near future? What is an appropriate way of publishing a fine decision as objectively as possible? Is the Secretary of State prepared to ask the CBP to inform the Chamber about the way in which the Authority will give personal data content to the publication policy before this law enters into force? I come to the explanatory statement on the amendments. The VVD, together with the Labour Party and D66, has tabled an amendment on data leaks with encrypted data. Colleagues have already referred to this. In the event of a leak of encrypted data, the present proposal does not require the CBP to be informed. I think that's a loss. In general, encrypted personal data are particularly sensitive. Think of e-mail, credit card or bank details, for example. Encrypted data can also be decrypted and a leak of this data can tell us something about the level of security at a government institution or company. The VVD also tabled an amendment, together with the PvdA, to allow the CBP to impose a fine immediately in certain cases. Sometimes a warning is not enough. As far as very sensitive personal data are concerned, such as medical data, the CBP must already have full power. To illustrate the urgency and importance of our amendment, I would like to mention a few examples. The example of the VUmc has already been discussed extensively. So I will not repeat that here. That case is now known. Another example is the Arbourts. You're talking to the Arbourts at work because you suffer from severe depressive symptoms and you temporarily want to work less. You put your whole things on the table and keep them on the table. After the interview has ended and the doctor has processed everything in the file, the doctor will send that file to the employer by e-mail. That happens not once, but systematically. That's, as it were, the earning model of that shift. Another example is a case that played in the US, but which also played in the Netherlands in weakened form. It was a website that was entirely aimed at children, with the child once logged in, getting ten points to feed and maintain a beast of your choice. Every time the child logged in, the chosen animal came into view, often hungry and/or waving. If the child had run out of points over time, answering questions could earn new points to continue feeding the animal. For example, this was a question about the parents' name, address, e-mail address and account number. Again, this was a website that was aimed at children. If the child didn't answer any questions and still clicked on the website every now and then, it saw the chosen animal slowly fade away and die. The cop doesn't tell anyone who's drunk at 170 km/h on the highway either: next time don't do it again. We have tabled this amendment in order to be able to impose a fine immediately in very serious cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u27	I understand that these three examples fall within the concept of'serious culpable negligence'. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u28	Yes, we believe that is the case. Of course, this list of examples is not exhaustive, but I do not want to end up here in an endless treatise of all kinds of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u29	I think the examples are rather random. Mr Van Wijngaarden says very easily: this is included. We're in the process of legal treatment. There is an amendment by the Labour Party and the VVD which seeks to introduce a somewhat arbitrary wording into that law. My follow-up question is: if these three examples are clearly covered, what is not covered? Where is the dividing line between serious culpable negligence and ordinary culpable negligence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u30	First of all, it is important to clarify at the level of the formal law the situations that we say should be covered. That is what we are setting criteria for here. There is an explanation in the explanatory statement. For the rest, the CBP will have to do what it always does, namely develop this in guidelines and publish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u31	I shall exceptionally allow Mr Schouw a third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u32	That's exactly where I want to go. There's something double-hearted in it. Mr Van Wijngaarden says that the Cbp should develop this in directives, because we have agreed to do so. But why make things complicated and complicated by such a vague formulation that you can go from one side to the next? I do not understand that, because we can talk about the further development of guidelines here as well. So why does this have to be complicated in front now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u33	You call that complicated, I say it is an improvement in legal certainty by creating clarity at the level of the formal law on the type of situations covered by it. I refer you to the explanatory statement in the amendment. It must be the consequences of gross, substantial, careless, negligent, or unwise action. That's a wide set of criteria. The Cbp itself will, as always, be responsible for its further implementation. By regulating this at the level of the formal law, we also respond to the criticism of the Council of State, which said that this should be regulated at the level of the formal law in order to implement the principle of legal certainty. Moreover, it also makes the legislative proposal more likely in the First Chamber, because we do not feel the need to create a very vague competence. Hence the clear explanation in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr Schouw, of course, has a point, but what I really do miss in Mr Van Wijngaarden's explanatory statement is the fifth paragraph of Rule 66, namely where he seeks to impose a fine with Mrs Oosenbrug in the event of non-compliance with the binding designation. Do I understand correctly that non-compliance with the binding designation is actually a fine in itself? Or am I supposed to see that fine imposed for the underlying behavior? I would like to have an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u35	In the case of non-compliance with the binding designation, there is an amendment, which has just been explained. So that's the point that's being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u36	Well, that makes sense. Then perhaps I have a suggestion for Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Oosenbrug. Colleague Van Nispen just said that if things go wrong, you can destroy the images, for example. But of course there are other examples to think of, namely that the College's protection of personal data says: "You have to take security measures, you have to compensate the victims or otherwise comply with them. If you do not do so, you can see in this amendment that you will be fined." Would it not be better, for example, to impose a conditional fine on a binding condition? It shouldn't be, but it could be. Then it is more transparent, then it falls better and then you know why you get that fine, namely that you leak, that you cause problems through a data breach. Actually, you have to get a fine for that, but then the Cbp says you have the chance to fix it or at least avoid repeating it. If you don't, you'll still have to pay the fine. Then it is much clearer for the company for which it is doing it and for which it is trying to make the recovery than to say that you have exceeded the standard and have not listened to Mr Kohnstamm and that you are therefore fined. I'd say that's a lot cleaner. What do you think of this idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u37	I believe that Mr Oskam is being served with this bill, because it is precisely this bill that says in principle: we are giving a binding indication that the data breach will be closed, not to impose a fine. Then the leak is repaired and there will be no penalty at all. Only in the very serious cases do we need a lick-on-piece policy, and I think we all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Oskam, I also make an exception for you. Once you start it, you have to be consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u39	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, but this calls for a response. Materially it comes down to the same thing, of course, it is only the underlying idea, namely that wrong behavior should be subject to a fine. The Cbp will be able to set terms and terms. If you don't meet those conditions, it would be logical for that fine to be dealt with. But I find it different than when you say: you don't listen to the Cbp and that's why you get a fine. That would feel less good than my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u40	What we are seeing here is a difference of opinion between Mr Oskam and me. He says wrong behavior requires a fine. I'm saying you have to turn bad behavior into good behavior. It is also the role of the CBP as an expert supervisor to encourage and encourage this. If someone is unexpectedly really hard learners, I do not think that will happen very often in practice. There is that stick behind the door of the fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u41	I am trying to figure out the ratio of the wording chosen in the amendment to item No. 16, on the power of fines. It has opted for the wording that it should be a result of serious negligence. What exactly does that mean? We have now heard a number of cases passing by. If there is talk of negligence, does that include action? If you leave something behind, there's something you don't do. But does it include trading? What is the difference between "seriously culpable" and "disputable"? Something can be reproachable, but if it is not seriously culpable, no fine should be imposed. What exactly is the ratio behind this formulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u42	I think that we should be extremely careful to create too broad and too easy a lick-on-piece penalty. It's kind of the classic question of the Juvenalis Dilemma: who's guarding the guards? The CBP is our guard and we have to guard the CBP. So I think we should be careful to create too broad a general lick-on-piece penalty, hence the addition of the word'serious'. It should not be reproachable, but it must be seriously reproachable. I mentioned two cases in addition to the case of the VU Medical Center. So this is the ratio behind the addition of the word "serious."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u43	It is not clear to me where we are crossing the border with regard to culpable negligence or culpable behaviour. Again, I ask: is that the same? Where does that stop and start serious culpable negligence? Can Mr Van Wijngaarden make that clear? Can he take it that the CBP says: it is difficult for us to deal with this? Why not wait for policy rules, which we can still discuss? Why shouldn't we give it the freedom to develop teeth? In such an important subject and such an important value as privacy, we need a good watchdog.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u44	But there is also another value, namely the value of legal certainty. I just pointed that out. You have to be careful that you turn that watchdog into a pit bull that you can send too late for everyone. As regards the issue of failure to act: failure is also a form of action. Thank you for that question! The explanatory statement also states that "i.e. it is the result of gross, grossly careless, negligent or unwise action." Failure to act is therefore also meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u45	I had another question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u46	Since this is a clarification of an amendment, I would like to give you some extra space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u47	I would have asked Mr Van Wijngaarden to explain exactly where culpable action ends and seriously culpable action begins.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u48	For the precise answer to that question, of course, we have the CBP. Otherwise, so to speak, I could do it on my own. I just heard there's 150 people there. They're in there for a reason. It is precisely their expertise to assess such matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr Van Wijngaarden, were you at the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u50	No, I actually wanted to go to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u52	I'm rounding up. The protection of personal data is not by chance a matter of fundamental law. This is an additional reason, which the Council of State has also indicated, to regulate matters at the level of formal law. Article 10 of the Constitution instructs us as legislators to protect privacy. This bill is ultimately a derivative of that mission. The key question in privacy is perhaps the best posed by Professor Koops of Tilburg University, although I know you have to say "Tilburg University" from the university these days. According to this professor, the question is: what can others know about us? You have to decide on that question as much as you can. Privacy is a pillar of the rule of law and is therefore on trial in the Constitution. Without privacy, we end up in a society in which one person is subject to the information power of the other. This bill helps prevent such a society. There's gotta be a place where you're not being watched. Where you can be alone with yourself, or intimate with another, over which you are not responsible and free from other people's moral judgments. A place where you can be yourself uninhibited, cherish secrets and write unseen in your diary. Privacy is the guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u53	The VVD just gave itself up a little bit. Mr Van Wijngaarden said that we do not need a pit bull at all. That is interesting, because the Labour Party is now calling out in all sorts of press releases 'we really have a pit bull with teeth'. Mr Van Wijngaarden says: I have tabled a slightly tricky amendment to turn it into a lapdog, because I fear that there will be too little action. Thanks for the candor. Thank you for the fair motive for this amendment. The VVD Group does not need any College protection personal data that can bite through. My question is how Mr Van Wijngaarden manages to say in the same sense about that pit bull that there will be fines to be paid. I don't understand. We have all received letters from the Personal Data Protection College, in which the College specifies very precisely the conditions under which it intends to do so. From what paragraph has Mr Van Wijngaarden read that the CBP intends to issue fines too late?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u54	I did not say that the CBP will or will do that. I said that, at the time you create too broad a general authority to hand out lick-on-piece fines, the CBP can do this. On the one hand, we, as legislators, have the task of ensuring that the power of a supervisor is strong enough to be able to bite through. A watchdog with teeth is fine, we all agree on that, and that is why we are broadening the lick-on-piece penalty power. On the other hand, we have urged the Council of State to do so to ensure that we do not increase this power unnecessarily. The core of the bill is that you first have the binding indication, in the vein of: try to improve your life and try to close the data breach. If it really doesn't work and if you renounce your duty, a fine is possible. For the very serious cases, the lick-on ticket is meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u55	My conclusion is really no different than that this amendment puts personal data at the neck of the College, that this is also the deepest wish of the VVD and that the Labour Party has been so naive as to sign it. On this issue, the College for Protection of Personal Data sent a letter. I ask Mr Van Wijngaarden whether this letter does not provide sufficient guarantees for him that the College will not pass on personal data to the discharge of fines. Does he agree with me that you can't deduce this from that letter, with that intention of the college?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u56	Mr Schouw uses great words. He may do that, but I note that there is an amendment, with a clear explanation, which ensures a watchdog with teeth, which does not go beyond what is necessary and which also fits within the nature of the bill. We all care about privacy. There is not one party in this Parliament that has the monopoly on privacy, so other parties are also free to make proposals on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u57	My colleague Schouw just made a point. But I have another question. My question is whether information about the distribution of assets in the Netherlands, which cannot be traced back to persons, is covered by the Personal Data Protection Act. In other words, are these personal data?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u58	That seems to me to be a good question to ask the CBP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u59	Come on! This can't be happening. Mr Van Wijngaarden has just asked me the mirrored question and I have tried to answer that question in terms of honour and conscience. But now he refuses to answer my question. Let me say straight away: Mr Van Wijngaarden does not have to be afraid that the SP and GroenLinks want to know exactly what is in his bank account, or whatever he has power anywhere. So he doesn't have to go home shaking, because the proposal by GroenLinks and the SP, about which he just asked a question, is not about personal data. I assume he did, so the attempt to put us in the wrong light failed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u60	Mr Van Wijngaarden, would you like to comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u61	I made no proposal yesterday to create an asset register in which all this is kept. I have now done nothing but ask the question I have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u62	It would be a credit to Mr Van Wijngaarden to admit that the asset register of the SP is not traceable at the personal level, so it has nothing to do with personal data and that it is only about information about the distribution of assets in the Netherlands. It doesn't suit him that he continues to give the impression that this would be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr Van Wijngaarden, do you need a response?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u64	No. I think it is far too short for me to conclude here that this is the case, so that the asset register meets the privacy requirements. I think we have the CBP for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u65	You have thus come to the end of your term. I give the floor to Mr Segers, who has registered for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr. Chairman. There's an important value at stake, and that's privacy. In the event of data leaks, people are at risk of unsolicited and unintentionally ending up with their data on the streets or on the digital highway, with all the misery of that. In this case, the situation can easily be abused. The bill obliges all those who work with personal data to be careful, especially at times when things go wrong unexpectedly. The legislative proposal is therefore a legitimate strengthening of the position of the citizen. As a watchdog, the College Protection has been appointed Personal Data. This will now be given a number of important tasks. The question is whether the bill will work. In other words, does CBP have effective tools to bark if necessary and bite if there is no other way? The Christian Union Group is not entirely convinced of this. The latest evaluation of the Personal Data Protection Act, held in 2009, showed that the law is being poorly enforced by both the government and the business community. A firm and sad conclusion. There is enough reason to come up with new legislation, such as the one under discussion today. At the same time, it should also be noted that changes can never be based solely on legislation. It also refers to the attitude of all those involved, to a culture in which the value of privacy is respected. What intentions does the government have in this regard and how does it measure any improvements and any deteriorations? The choice in the transparency bill where it goes wrong, through the reporting obligation, and the sanctioning if it is culpable, is a good addition to the toolbox of the Personal Data Protection College. With regard to this reporting obligation, it is good that the CPB can keep a finger on the pulse in order to identify the extent and severity of a number of data leaks and the risks that citizens face. It is therefore strange that the reporting obligation suddenly lapses when there is a data breach with encrypted data. I don't see the ratio. We would like to receive an explanation of this. In my opinion, the Van Wijnbergen/Schouw/Oosenbrug amendment provides a relief on this point. It is particularly surprising that the explanatory memorandum then attributes the knowledge to the college in order to be aware of all encryption techniques and to keep up-to-date records. Questions have already been asked about this, at least by the PVV Group and the SP Group. They also asked: aren't there other bodies for that? I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State, and I am particularly concerned about the role of the National Cyber Security Centre, part of the NCTV. Then the filling in of the toolbox, or in other words, can the college bite? That was the wish of the Chamber when it adopted the motion for a resolution. The sanctioning power now being proposed is seen by the College as not effective simply because it has to be demonstrated that the offence has been committed willingly and knowingly. If that doesn't work, a clue must first be given. It is perfectly logical that the College always tries to work as a repair shop, but there are situations where not everything has been said. The camera crews of VUmc have often visited. That was a visual illustration, a visual case, in which recordings began without the consent of patients. Anything could be visualized. Then it fits firm performance instead of repair. I really think it's a good idea for this Secretary of State to take firm action. It's in his nature, I'd say. Why, then, the fear of giving the College a power of fine, which the College itself says is to see as an ultimatum remedium? The power to impose fines will not be applied unduly. Is the Secretary of State aware of the situation in other countries when it comes to the power of fines? What is the trend in the new European directive that will be published shortly? Together with Mr Schouw, I believe that a watchdog should be able to bite in exceptional cases. Hence our amendment. The second letter of amendment added the obligation for the College to subject law-interpreting policy rules to ministerial approval. This is rather remarkable, because it has directly involved the ministries of security, justice and home affairs in the way in which supervision of their own activities is designed and organized. That's what's wrong, isn't it? I have tabled an amendment on this point with Mr Schouw and I ask the State Secretary to look at that amendment in the light of European legislation and case law. To sum up, this bill improves the current situation, but the Secretary of State nevertheless opts for a rather soft approach. That's not how we know him. Fortunately, there are several amendments, which make the whole of it a solid legislative proposal. The aim must be to ensure that citizens know and know when things go wrong. Then a supervisor must be able to intervene. The next evaluation of the Personal Data Protection Act must have a different outcome than the one I just referred to. Even after the adoption of this bill, the work is not yet finished. In that light one last afterburner. When the Personal Data Protection Act was adopted here, it was agreed to evaluate after five years. That is also in the law and has led, among other things, to the present legislative proposal. It is unclear to me what the sequel is. The law does not talk about a follow-up, but the results of that time give rise to this. When will this law be kept under review and its functioning? This may not have to be done in a special evaluation, but can be taken into account if privacy-related research is otherwise conducted. I think it is desirable that we take another critical look at this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall now give the floor to Mr Oskam, who has also registered for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. The bill that the Chamber discusses introduces the reporting obligation in the Personal Data Protection Act for those responsible for the processing of personal data in the event of proven breach of the measures taken to safeguard personal data. It's a very mouthful, but that's the legal text. The reporting obligation rests on all those responsible for the processing, both in the private and in the public sector. Failure to comply with this obligation may be sanctioned by an administrative fine of up to €810,000 or, if the highest category of fine does not allow an appropriate penalty, by 10% of the annual turnover, by the CBP. The CDA Group supports the bill. The purpose of the reporting obligation is to prevent data leaks resulting from breach of security measures. If they do occur, their impact on those concerned will be reduced as much as possible. The reporting obligation contributes to the maintenance and restoration of trust in the handling of personal data. According to the CDA Group, this is a good thing in the era of digitalisation and large-scale processing of personal data. However, the CDA Group wishes to submit to the government how it can be monitored that this bill does justice to the proportionality of the penalty. The CDA Group is therefore pleased that, in the light of its comments in the report, the government has reworded the obligation to notify in the letter of amendment. This means that not all personal data security breaches need to be reported to the supervisory authority, but only those infringements that have serious adverse consequences for the protection of the processed personal data. During the debate, it was already clear that there was a discussion about this. I would ask the Secretary of State if he can clarify what exactly is meant by'serious adverse consequences'. This seems to the CDA Group to be a sensible change, also in order to avoid excessive administrative burden for the companies concerned and for the public organisations involved. Moreover, the reporting of any form of unauthorised access to personal data to the data subject would be of little use, as it would bring many situations within the scope of the reporting obligation in which there are no significant adverse effects on privacy, for example in the case of human errors or system errors involving persons who will not abuse data which they have wrongly perceived. Then there's no need and we don't need to rig up the CPB any further. In the view of the CDA Group, therefore, such a broad obligation does not serve a reasonable purpose. A second amendment, namely the one aimed at putting the standards to ministerial approval, can also count on the support of the CDA Group, unlike some of my colleagues who have just mentioned it. The CDA Group does, however, share the reserves that the Council of State had on this issue. Care must be taken to ensure too much concentration of power at the CPB. If this bill comes into force, the college can impose fines to very high levels. However, in view of the independence of supervision, the proposed amendment is sensible. The CDA Group is the only one with questions about the concept proposed by the government in Article 66. What is the scope of this concept? I think I know, but I want to be sure. I would therefore like to hear from the Secretary of State that conditional intent is included. That has also been discussed. There are plenty of concrete cases that can be considered where there is a conditional design: the conscious acceptance of the significant risk that data may be harmed. The CDA Group cites a different example, this time from the United States. The Target store chain installed advanced security software to monitor its network. Even though alarms went off, the company didn't do anything. The result was that the records of 40 million credit card holders were stolen. In cases like this, you have to reasonably suspect that it goes wrong if you don't do something. That makes sense to me. In such a case, the CDA Group supports the College's power of fines, but asks the Secretary of State to ensure that the CPB becomes too eager to impose fines. It was said earlier that the guard dog should have teeth. I'm sure we agree. Those teeth should be able to be used, but not the claws. Then there is our amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution. 17. As far as we are concerned, this contributes to more customization for the College Protection Personal Data. If you take the CPB's sanctioning powers seriously, you should also be able to have a full review carried out. Have the CPB review the breach of standards, the facts and circumstances under which it was committed and any consequences in the assessment of whether or not a fine should be imposed. A binding designation or otherwise may be sufficient. One can think of situations where the data was forgotten to be erased when the retention period had expired. I also mention the situations where the security level has not been updated according to the state of progress of the technique or where the privacy statement has not been updated on the website. These are minor mistakes that the CPB has to say: it is not good what you have done, but we leave it at that or we give a clue if there is any reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr Oskam just indicated that he took the points raised by the Council of State very seriously. But how does the phrase "unless the College considers this to be inappropriate", such a general wording, relate to the lex certa principle on the one hand and to the point that the constitutionalist has instructed the legislator to clarify it on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u70	The CDA, of course, also stands for clarity and also wants to create clarity, but we are watching with each other how this is going to take place. The CBP has sent a letter stating when it thinks it should impose a fine and sets out the criteria for it. Mr Schouw mentioned this point. It's a search. The CDA is also in favour of the idea that the Minister should be involved, so that it is seen from both sides, because then the Chamber also has influence. But it has to settle down. Actually, the CBP is a kind of judge who says: this breach of standards has been done; how are we going to solve it best? I just said what the purpose of that is. We are, of course, trying to prevent this damage as much as possible, so it is fine if there is a binding indication of what security measures should be taken so that it can no longer happen in the future or that the victims must be compensated. The example of gross breaches of standards has already been mentioned. If a data manager is deliberately selling data when he knows that this cannot be done, then the data manager needs to be dealt with thoroughly. Then we're for lick-on-piece. The phrase of reasonableness refers to the full scope of the review by the CBP. Let that weigh the facts and circumstances, the breach of standards and the consequences against each other and consider whether a fine is necessary. That's the idea. I don't think there's anything unclear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u71	But with that, the CDA simply ignores the reminder of the Council of State, which has said that the constitutionalist orders the legislator to create as much clarity as possible at the level of the formal law. With this sentence, the CDA ignores it, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u72	No, I'm not ignoring it. I said that we were positive about the opinion of the Council of State not to accept everything at the CPVO and that there is also a ministerial responsibility in it, read: for the Chamber too, but that does not mean that we are violating those constitutional principles. It's not like that. Mr. Chairman. I gave a number of examples in which the CBP could deliver customization. I refer to the situation that data has been temporarily lost without it proving to have been readily understood by third parties, so there are no further consequences. In such situations, we believe it would be more appropriate for the CBP to opt for a binding designation. If it is not followed, the CBP may still impose the administrative penalty. In Mr Van Wijngaarden's and Mrs Oosenbrug's amendment it would be because of the violation or failure to comply with the binding designation, but as far as I am concerned it would be better to impose a conditional fine on such a binding designation. Sometimes it even goes on. Sometimes a binding indication of this example also gave Van Nispen actually no longer applicable because the damage has already been repaired or because measures have already been taken. The CBP may give a binding indication, but in that case it has no function. What can have a function is to impose a conditional fine. You can't do that right now. No one has tabled an amendment to that effect and the bill does not look forward to it, but I would ask the Secretary of State if he thinks that is a good idea. In this respect, there is still an intermediate solution to be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u73	The CDA says it's very clear. I'm glad, because there are some things that are getting unclear for me. Mr Oskam gives an example of a situation where data has been leaked, but no third parties can access it. How am I supposed to see that? The problem is that if there is a hack where personal data is compromised in any way, you will never know for sure whether they have been released or stayed within the company. Then where do we put the border? How clear can you lay that down in legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u74	I'll make it very visual. An employee of XS4ALL gets access to data he's not supposed to see. He reports that to his boss and does nothing about it. The boss then reports it to the CBP. If no blood has flowed out, the CPB can leave it at that or give an indication that it won't happen again. That sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u75	Then it's not about data leaks, it's about something that happens internally in a company. That is quite different from when there is an attack from the outside or a hack. It may also be that a flash drive in an envelope, unencrypted, is sent through the mail and disappears. That could have ended up somewhere under a closet at TPG Post, but it could have been taken by someone. We don't know. Where's the line? When can we say that the clue or the fine is deserved? Then how do you get that legislation clear?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u76	I don't have a transaction list here where you say, if you go five centimeters to the left, you get so much. I think this is going on at the college. I think we should make customization. Of course we can discuss all kinds of examples, but there are many more examples to come up with. The technique is progressing. Things are gonna happen. This whole process is developing. The CBP will also have to look at how this is handled. Soon, the CBP will make a form of case law that we will follow closely, but I am not going to say that someone who goes 5 cm to the left will get a fine and not at 4 cm. That's really going on at the CBP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u77	You asked Mr van Wijngaarden to clarify the amendments we tabled, but my conclusion is that this is actually the same. My colleague Van Wijngaarden also said: let the CBP determine that at times. You're actually saying the exact same thing. That's not a question, it's a conclusion from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u78	Then I'm gonna ask you a question. Mrs Oosenbrug didn't quite understand. I meant to ask Mr Van Wijngaarden what the CBP is fineing on the basis of amendment No. 16 (5). Mr Van Wijngaarden has made this clear by saying that this is because that company or organisation has not followed the designation of the CBP. That's obvious. In order to improve the amendment, I have said that you can also shape it as a conditional fine if you do not want to give a binding indication. Then you give tools to prevent misery in the future. Suppose as director of a company I have to join the CBP, figuratively put. The CBP then says: "You've been fishing off the boat, so to speak, "That's a wrong expression, but you know what I mean, you actually have to pay a fine, but it's the first time, you've taken security measures, you've come up with it yourself or you've compensated damages or compensated people, in which case we'll leave it on probation. You can also take Mrs Oosenbrug's amendment and Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment and say that you have broken that standard, you have not listened to the CBP and that is why you have to pay €810,000 or €400,000 or €20,000, all of which can be done. I think it's more transparent to say: that's what it says, that's what we think it's worth, but if you make sure it doesn't happen again, or if you listen to that clue, you'll go free. I think that's better. I was with the examples of customization. There is also the burden of penalty payments, as Mr Van Nispen said. The amendment I have just discussed could work out well in conjunction with the legislative proposal. Companies and organisations are stimulated by the threat of a high fine to do everything in their power to prevent privacy-related damage. In addition, it becomes clear whether the CBP can impose fines on all shortcomings. Sometimes there is a dispute as to whether they have had such serious consequences or are such a breach of standards as to require a fine. I have another question for the Secretary of State on the amendment to item No. 16. Is it not better to ride a conditional fine in the system we have devised and possibly link it to that binding indication? It is also possible that no binding indication should be given, but that a conditional fine would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you Mr. Oskam, also for enriching Dutch with a new expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA has long been in favour of reporting data leaks. My group therefore welcomes the fact that this legislative proposal can strengthen the protection of personal data. Our personal data is collected and stored digitally in more and more places. As a result, the risk of loss or theft of such data, known as "data leaks," is increasing. Due to a reporting obligation for cases where data is likely to be stolen and by tightening the teeth of the College's protection personal data with wide penalty powers, the bill meets the wishes of my group. With this bill, the government gives effect to the wish of the House of Representatives, as expressed, among other things, in the motion of colleague Recourt on the equipment of the CBP. We see the increasing importance of good protection of digital personal data mainly because more and more information about people is available digitally and regular attempts are being made to steal this data. In addition, privacy regularly undermines the competition with commerce and violates the rules of the Protection of Personal Data Act. A reporting obligation and a stronger sanctioning power will help to improve the protection of personal data. For a reporting obligation for data leaks that work well, it is important not only to obtain information about infringements that are already clear that data have been misused, because then there is little need for preventive response. Nor can it always be properly estimated how high the risks of abuse are after a leak. It is good if this is reported in doubt, rather than keeping it to itself. Even if data is encrypted, it is important to report the infringement to the CBP. It is not always possible to say in advance to what extent the theft of encrypted data may pose a risk. Not all encryption is equally strong. That is why I was uncomfortablely surprised by the first letter of amendment, which unnecessarily restricted the obligation to notify. I understand the concerns about an increase in administrative burdens. Companies are afraid to report more than they need to report. Besides, it is not nice to have to report that you have been broken into; that can be bad for your image. However, I can also imagine that the CBP does not need to be flooded with unnecessary reports. I am convinced that a workable form can be found for this in practice, with the CBP laying down possible further rules. In my group's view, the obligation to invest in the security of the data it collects and also in the reporting of infringements is part of the obligation to handle this data carefully. That is why I have tabled an amendment with Mr Schouw, which reduces the initial obligation to notify. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what problems he expects with this obligation of notification and what new insights he has gained since the legislative proposal was submitted. The members of the PvdA Group share the government's view that it would be unwise to wait for the data protection regulation, while a reporting obligation could already increase security. After the arrival of a reporting obligation on the basis of a European regulation, it is important that harmonisation is ultimately achieved. The PvdA Group is keen to hear from the government the latest developments regarding a European reporting obligation for data leaks. In addition to increasing confidence in digital data processing, it is important to draw as many lessons as possible from data leaks. Therefore, it is important to share information from the CBP with the Cyber Security Centre and with the supervisors of DNB, the AFM and the ACM. This has already been mentioned by colleagues. I would like to hear more from the government about how the reported data leaks are used to learn lessons and combat insecurity. In the letter of amendment which regulates the power to impose fines, I see two possible bottlenecks in addition to the long-awaited extension of the powers of the CBP to really intervene. That is the need to be able to impose a fine immediately without any previous indication. I am concerned that this is too restrictive to be able to take action in cases where, according to the Protection of Personal Data Act, it has been overlooked in no uncertain terms, but no intentional violation has been committed. I support Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment to also make gross negligence payable immediately. In addition, CBP is concerned that ministerial approval of its policies may undermine its independence. The College even contradicts the European privacy directive and the risk of an intergroup procedure. Has the Secretary of State asked the European Commission about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u81	I believe that Mrs Oosenbrug has already passed the controversial amendment to item No. 16, but I have a few questions about that. Mr Van Wijngaarden has revealed why he made this. He doesn't want to turn the privacy watchdog into a pit bull. It must not be a pit bull, and so it is restricted by a tricky amendment which talks about serious culpable negligence and some of those restrictions. What does Mrs Oosenbrug think of such a qualification by Mr Van Wijngaarden?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u82	I have heard other things in Mr Van Wijngaarden's words than the D66 spokesman. I have also tabled this amendment because it extends the power to impose fines beyond that provided for in the original legislative proposal. There are just teeth given to the lapdog, as Mr Schouw suggests, the bill that is now before us, and no teeth removed. It's not my place to turn it into a pit bull or a bouvier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u83	I can help. An elderly pitbull has no teeth anymore, that makes everyone happy again. Mr Van Wijngaarden really said it: I made this because I do not want to make it a pit bull. He said it had to be reasonable. Mr Van Wijngaarden has mentioned examples which he thinks fall within the scope of the wording. I have also come up with some examples. I would like to point out to Mrs Oosenbrug whether they are covered by the definition of serious culpable negligence. The first example is about the staff of a hospital. They have access to all electronic patient files, regardless of their direct treatment relationship. We're talking about hundreds of employees. Is this a case of serious culpable negligence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u84	Since I have some experience as a system administrator and now I know how many companies are doing with handing out login names and passwords, I wouldn't call this a serious culpable negligence. I would very much like to see the CBP pull the red card and say that this is no longer possible. It's not just about care, it's about a lot of companies as well as about municipalities. This is happening everywhere at the moment, and I personally believe that, from my point of view as a system administrator, this is seriously negligent. When I look from the law at the task of the CBP, I say no. A red card will have to be drawn first. It will first have to be explained why this is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u85	Mr Schouw, I do not know how many examples you have, but otherwise it will take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u86	Just a little bit further with this example and then I'm really gonna stop, you know? So it's been happening in that hospital for a year, they've all kept it from me, and everyone's been messing around in those patient files. Eventually, the college will find out through a whistleblower. Does the Labour Party say that this is not so serious that a fine may be given immediately, but that a warning must first be given? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u87	Yes. There are still no clear guidelines for this. The same problem exists at municipal level. We also asked the Minister to take stricter action. My group chooses to have a warning given first. You're going a lot further. I think it's a different story if they mess around in those files or mess around or do other things. Well, then there's got to be a fine on it. Then it goes much further. It's about how people deal with login data. For example, a secretary can be in files that should only be available to the director. There's got to be a red card for that. That's what happens in hospitals. At the moment, a lot of secretaries simply have the login codes of the psychiatrists or from anyone to add or delete files. If we do not want that anymore, we need clear guidelines for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u88	I think the amendment is clear. I always prefer to watch the lyrics. The explanation must fit in with that. I have the words of Mr Van Wijngaarden in mind, but the text is clear. However, after Mrs Van Oosenbrug's explanation, I do not understand it anymore. I think she's filling out the definition of a red card quite differently now. A red card means stop acute, fine and hate flats, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u89	There's a difference. The binding clue for me is the red card. Maybe I'm using the term "binding clue" wrong. Then there's the fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u90	By a red card, you mean a binding lead?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u91	Then I mean the binding lead. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u92	Then it's starting to make sense to me. They can give us a yellow card by now. That's how I understood it. I also read a binding indication as a yellow card, because that has to be met first. If it doesn't happen, you'll get a red card. However, in the legislative proposal, there is also the possibility, in certain cases, of issuing an acute red card if there is a set-up. So it's your turn right away. I understand that the red card, which is what is referred to in the amendment, is also intended if there is serious culpable negligence. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u93	If the red card is a fine, then yes. Just so I'm clear, my name isn't Van Oosenbrug. The "From" is off. My name is Oosenbrug, but the whole room is already starting to take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u94	I'll try. I have a question for Mrs Oosenbrug. Does the PvdA entrust Personal Data Protection to the College to make the assessment itself in order to give a direct fine in a given case without being preceded by a binding designation? I'm genuinely curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u95	I'm sure I trust the CBP. I will ask the Minister why this ministerial review is necessary. I don't know if I've already asked or if I was gonna ask. Why does the ministerial review have to be carried out? Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u96	No. That is, of course, an interesting point, but you will get to that. I am concerned about the amendment to item No. 16, which you have tabled together with Mr Van Wijngaarden, versus the amendment to item No. 19 by Mr Schouw and Mr Segers. The difference is that, according to you, there must first be a binding indication and only then can the CBP impose a heavy fine. That's how I read the amendment. However, my colleagues from the Christian Union and D66 say that it is up to the college itself to assess whether it would be justified to do it directly in certain cases, without the intervention of that designation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u97	I'm just reading the explanatory notes very quickly. I think we're saying the same thing. The amendment lays down that the College does not need to give a binding indication to the offender before it can impose an administrative fine. So I do not fully understand the confusion, but perhaps I myself do not have the amendment very clearly. That's what I had in mind: now give the CBP the tool to make sure it can decide for itself. So if there's a coarse... wait, I have to use the right words. If there is a serious culpable negligence, such as in the case of the hospital where cameras are driven in, that example has been mentioned a hundred times already, where you know that you are committing a huge violation of privacy, you should be fined for that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u98	I conclude that there is really an important difference between the amendment in part No. 16 and that in part No. 19. I think it's good to take a good look at that. The amendment in part No. 19, from the Christian Union and D66, really makes it a lot sharper. In my view, this is how I see it.... we thus give more trust to the College protection personal data in order to apply customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you for the tip. I think that after this we should see if we can get any further. I can't say yet that it's a better one than the other. I had stayed with the question to the Secretary of State if he had asked the European Commission about the European Privacy Directive. Can he confirm that the refusal of approval will be used with restraint, partly because of the limited grounds "conflict with the law" and "conflict with the public interest"? How is the Chamber informed about any refusal to approve a CPVO policy rule? The introduction of the legislation now carries the risk that future adjustments will be needed by working on new European privacy regulations, which include reporting obligations and fines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u100	Approval is an important point. I believe that Mrs Oosenbrug has already mentioned this in her contribution. The Labour Party is on the verge of approval. It is not entirely clear to me what the view of the PvdA is. Can the PvdA have two more options: whether it is approved by the Minister or not by the Minister, as envisaged in Mr Segers' amendment? Are both options still open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u101	At the moment, both options are still open to me. I have something about legislation on the ANPR (Automatic Number Plate Recognition), as some people may know; I know that a question has been asked. The question is indeed: can the Minister of V and J give a fair opinion to the CBP on this? That is the question I wanted to ask, and I asked it here. That's where the pain is for me. How independent are you? That's what I want to know. I would like to hear this from the Secretary of State in this debate, as well as the reaction to Mr Segers' amendment. I have to say that the fuck is going a little more crazy on one side than on the other, but I would like a clear answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u102	I think the answer from the Secretary of State will be: yes, I can. We can predict that. Isn't there a more principled side to it? In the case of a lot of supervisors, it is not otherwise regulated that standards and enforcement are in one hand. You can also see that in the Financial Markets Authority and a few of those institutions. Wouldn't it make sense to go through that line consistently?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yes, but I still want to keep the debate open. That is why we are holding a debate with each other. I want to be able to put questions to the Secretary of State and I simply want an answer to that. On the basis of this and with the view of my group behind it, we will certainly come back to that in the second term. In the first period, however, I am not going to tell you which side the game is going to go down, precisely in order to keep the debate open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u104	If independence is important, then we only have two tastes: either you're independent, or you're not. If you really want to underline that independence in the law, it is of course a question of whether you should not cut that ministerial arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u105	There have also been comments in the vein of "do you not put too much power on a party at some point?" I just have questions about that. I think more questions have been asked about that. I am really looking forward to the answer to that. For me, it's still a trade-off. What weighs heavier at some point? Is that really that independent position? We are very much working on it with other supervisors too, or should it still be supervision of the supervisor, or whatever you call it? You already have Train the Trainer. Then I'm sure you've got something like "Who's gonna look after the letter?" So I understand Mr Segers' amendment. I am very sympathetic to that, but I would like to await the answer of the Secretary of State before I tell you which way my group is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mr Segers, I do not think that there is a decision at the moment, but perhaps you still have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u107	No, I don't have a follow-up question, but I would like to highlight the importance the PvdA Group attaches to that independent position. It is important that the CBP is really in a position to exercise full supervision, including in the ministries we are talking about. I will mark that for a moment, and in the second term we will continue to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u108	That is why I gave you this excellent example of ANPR. I'm very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u109	Please continue your speech, Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u110	I come to the European regulations on privacy. We believe that this legislation has been delayed long enough and we appreciate the choice of the cabinet not to wait for these slow-moving European rules. The PvdA believes that with this bill we are taking a step forward in the protection of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u111	This has put an end to the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u112	Mr. Chairman. The protection of personal data is an important subject that is of close concern to everyone. The same applies to the government. Members have paid great attention to this in the first period. A number of examples have been mentioned which were very striking. Everyone knows the case of the VU Medical Center in Amsterdam about a year and a half ago, but a number of other cases have also been mentioned. For example, Mr Oskam talked about the case in America with 40 million credit cards. Of course, that was also a very special case. The cabinet is proposing that the Personal Data Protection Act should be more European-based and that the system of the European Regulation currently in preparation should be developed. We had an exchange of views on this about one and a half to two years ago. Mr Schouw van D66 then asked: you can wait all the time for this EU regulation, but should you not close the gap that exists at national level? Mr Van Nispen also asked questions about this. I said at the time that I actually wanted to wait for that EU regulation, because I expected it to be completed by the beginning of 2015. In this respect, it is a good thing that we are dealing with national legislation today. We must, of course, be careful that there are no national headlines. Mr Van Wijngaarden also drew attention to this. At the same time, after the informal Council in Latvia last week, I am not so optimistic about the timetable of the regulation. This will not be completed in 2015 or even during the Dutch Presidency in the first half of 2016. That Regulation could not be finalised until the second half of 2016 or during the first half of 2017 under the Maltese Presidency. This has to do, for example, with the difficult question of which protection regime police data are covered. After a few general remarks, I shall first deal with the amendments tabled by Members. You normally do it the other way round, by dealing first with the questions and then with the amendments, but in dealing with the amendments I can already answer a lot of questions that live with Members. Then I come to the questions, which are very serious, also about individual issues that deserve some attention. We also discussed this subject of data protection last week at the informal JHA Council. There, too, the two main topics of this bill were discussed, namely a general reporting obligation for data leaks and an extension of the powers of national supervisors, in this case the College of Personal Data Protection, in order to impose an administrative fine in the event of a breach of the law. Mr Schouw made a comment on the naming of the Personal Data Protection College. That name is changed in this bill into a small article. I have talked a lot about this with the chairman of the college. We've really paid attention to that for a while. It is after a very long period of reflection that the College for Protection of Personal Data also has a preference for the naming Authority for Personal Data. Some work has already been done in this respect, so I don't think it would be wise to choose another name now. I have also looked at this in connection with Mr Schouw's comment and his proposal to change the name. I thought what's in a name, but that's a little more complicated. So the chairman of the college is not very much in favour of that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u113	Mr Schouw on this point. Again? Sorry, the switch's off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u114	As long as it's not a setup, Mr. President! To prove my independence, I am pleased that there is a statement that the chairman of the College believes so, but the D66 Group does not consider that to be a convincing argument in itself. So I would ask the Secretary of State to go into more detail. I think I saw parallelity with the naming in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u115	So I've heard. So there are practical preparations that have been going on for some time now that you should say you shouldn't, but I will be going on to Mr Schouw's somewhat more fundamental question in a moment. I thought I could fix it this way, but that's a little too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u116	It's an interim remark. It's been looked at. It turns out to be statistical, so use the foot pedal, is the advice of the technical service.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u117	The Secretary of State mentioned practical things. Does that mean the letters are already there, so the Chamber doesn't really have a choice anymore? Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u118	No, definitely not. Of course, the Chamber always has a choice, but on a subject like this, I can imagine that the College will think about it and perhaps make some preparations. Of course, you can always make a different choice in the legislative process. What's in a name, but sometimes it's attached. I shall go into the matter of principle in a moment's time. I would like to make a general comment on the reporting obligation for data leaks. Several spokesmen asked why a letter of amendment had been submitted after the legislative proposal had already been submitted. I noted in the written report that several groups were critical of the original legislative proposal. I would like to mention a few points of criticism which come back to the report. It was found that the concepts were vague and general. In this respect, a number of political groups also raised the criticism of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, which pointed out that it was a duty to notify by maintaining penalties. When reporting data leaks, this cabinet is at least guided by a risk-oriented approach. New obligations such as these should serve a real purpose and not generate unnecessary administrative and supervisory burdens. The new obligations should also enable the CCP to act where necessary and allow citizens to take action as soon as possible in the event of an important data breach. It is therefore also important to introduce a certain degree of threshold in order to ensure that the reporting obligation is actually effective. The proposal sets the limit in the event of incidents which have serious adverse effects on the protection of privacy. Of course, that limit is not cast in concrete; let that be clear. I listened very carefully in the first term. I note that there is a desire on the part of a number of political groups to broaden this limit somewhat. I shall come back to that in the discussion of the amendments. I'm gonna go with the fine. In extending the power of our national authority to punish violations with severe fines, the cabinet is not just a guardian with teeth. This wording has already been mentioned several times this evening in the context of the different forms of expression of dogs. There is also a system in which the controller cannot be expected to make an impossible effort to determine whether or not he complies with the law. As has also been shown by the evaluation of the Personal Data Protection Act, the Wbp is a very difficult law for practice, with generally formulated standards, also known as "open standards" or "virgin standards." This also creates tension with the principle of legal certainty, as enshrined in Article 16 of the Constitution, but also in Article 7 of the ECHR and Article 15 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Mr Van Wijngaarden, among others, has drawn attention to this. The Council of State has also noted this. In order to remove this tension, the cabinet felt that the checks-and-balances should be strengthened. Two 'new' additional instruments play a role here, namely the binding designation as in principle 'as in principle', i.e. 'as in principle', an intermediate step for imposing an administrative fine and the ministerial approval of guidelines to be drawn up by the College explaining and interpreting the standards and which can be penalised by an administrative fine. These are instruments recommended by the Council of State. It has been emphasised that this is a constitutional matter in which the legislator has a particular responsibility. I think we have a solution with the amendments. I shall come to the debate on the amendments in a moment. I think we'll figure it out. I also think that the constitutional approach of the Council of State can be adequately supported. Moreover, I am not opposed to a slightly different interpretation of the instruments of the Treaty, which Members will also notice if the Court wishes to do so in a majority, as long as the principle of legal certainty is respected. A number of amendments have been tabled on this point. I would now like to discuss these amendments, because we can already answer a large number of questions when discussing them. I shall keep to the order of the numbering. First of all, I come to the amendment on item No. 13 by Mr Segers and Mr Schouw. That amendment provides that the proposed Article 67 of the Personal Data Protection Act on the adoption of guidelines would lapse. I note that, in the view of the proposers, the European independence requirement for the supervisor would stand in the way of the ministerial approval of the supervisory guidelines, thereby explaining the substantive standards of the law whose infringement can be punished by the same supervisor by an administrative fine. I think this is really about the checks-and-balances. It is very important to note that, as a result of this, standards and penalties are largely in one hand. You can ask questions about the desirability of this. The fact that the ministers are also subject to the supervision of the College for the protection of personal data is, in itself, a justified finding by the authors, but it is not a formal obstacle. Ministers should not interfere with the task of the College of Protection of Personal Data. The bill doesn't change that either. I think it is possible, in this particular case, to reword this whole, in the sense that we do not opt for the ministerial approval sec, but that we implement it in a different way. To this end, I should like to propose the following, having noted that in the Chamber there are objections to the requirement for ministerial approval. The College for the Protection of Personal Data also has objections to this. Let us look at alternatives, in the vein of: how else can we solve it with this amendment? Then I think that the obligation for the College to protect personal data could be sufficient to enter into consultation with the Ministers for the Interior and for Security and Justice prior to the adoption of policy rules. This guarantees the independence of the College, because the College itself lays down the policy rules, without the need for approval. There is, however, systemic responsibility of the ministries. Mr Van Wijngaarden said that as a system manager you should also look at the supervisor. He called that "surveillance" from the supervisor. I would call it the system responsibility of the departments. The involvement of the two ministries is guaranteed by the consultations in the preliminary phase. In the last four years that I have been allowed to work with the Chair and the Board of the College Protection Personal Data, that consultation has always been conducted in a good way. I have no reason to think that, in this way, if the amendment could be amended in this way, we would not be able to do justice to those concerned. We can then do justice to what the proposers, Mr Schouw and Mr Segers, have intended, and we can do justice to the system of responsibility that exists in both departments for the College. I therefore propose to the proposers to amend the amendment to this effect. I shall, of course, leave the judgment to the Chamber, but then I am very positive about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u119	The Secretary of State rightly says that the adoption of the policy rules is and remains the responsibility of the College. That was indeed the aim. When we approach each other like this, I think it's workable. We will amend the amendment accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u120	Then I come to the Van Wijngaarden and others amendment. in piece No. 14. The concerns of the proposers concern keeping adequately encrypted personal data under the reporting obligation. What are we talking about? It's about e-mails and credit card and bank details. Mr Van Wijngaarden has already said it, but others have also mentioned it. I thought Mrs Helder also paid attention to this. Mr Oskam mentioned an example of what has happened in the United States. The explanatory statement to the amendment refers to situations where decryption poses a real threat. In this case, there are risks to the privacy of the affected persons. The limitation to a real threat seems important to me. The College cannot be required to predict future technological developments. That seems like a step too far. If there is a real threat, it is a good thing that the College can force a notification to the affected persons to warn them and inform them about the harm reduction measures. That is the competence set out in Article 34a (7). For this, it is necessary to report to the college first. I am in favour of this amendment and I would like to leave it to the House to decide. I come to the amendment to item No. 16, tabled by Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Oosenbrug. This amendment has been the subject of much debate by the Chamber in the first term. In fact, two things are covered in the amendment. Firstly, it provides that the College does not have to give a binding indication to the offender of the offences for which the most serious penalty may be imposed, not only if the offence has been committed intentionally or on a conditional basis, but also if the offence is the result of serious culpable negligence. Secondly, the amendment provides for a simplification of enforcement, since the non-compliance with a binding designation is also made self-defeating. I mentioned earlier that I correctly included the exception to the obligation to first give a binding indication for the sake of legal certainty and the ability of the College to act on personal data protection. If necessary, therefore, a red card, Mrs Helder, could be drawn immediately to that effect in the event of an interruption. That is also in the amendment to item No. 16. That red card should be able to be drawn immediately, so as not to unduly impede the effectiveness of the College's protection of personal data. I think it is important to note that there is a need for strengthening, as I read the amendment, at least, of the lick-on character in the situations of serious culpable negligence mentioned here. Then we are talking about something gross, something grossly careless, something careless, or unwise. That is in line with the approach I envisaged in the legislative proposal. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 16. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the House. In the amendment to item No. 17, tabled by Mr Oskam, deals with something similar to the first part of the amendment to item No. 16: the exception for giving a binding designation for the purpose of committing an offence shall be supplemented by the power of the College to refrain from making the binding designation even in the event of intent, if the College considers it reasonable. I think this is superfluous, because the amendment to item No. 16 in conjunction with the original bill makes this possible. I think it is important what the author of the amendment said about 'design'. Tonight, in this room, the term "wondrous" fell. In that case, there is a complete set-up. However, when we talk about 'design' under this legislation, we also talk about the situation described in criminal law as 'conditional set-up', where an offender could reasonably have known or suspected, or could have accepted the significant opportunity, that his actions or omissions could have caused serious adverse consequences. That definition, that standard is also included in the bill. That is wider than what I have heard some Members say about 'wanting and knowing'. That is where the author of the amendment to item No. 17 a point. I believe that Mr Oskam also said that this should be included. Now, this is covered. That's how we have to explain the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u121	That's got to fall underneath. The amendment was tabled because there was a lot of discussion about what the CBP should do, what it can do and what the possibilities are. That is why we have said that we must look at the reasonableness and choose the overall test on the basis of which we weigh everything. The Secretary of State has explained this now. I understand his conclusion that the amendment is superfluous, but we would like to stress again what we mean, because there was so much discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u122	I welcome Mr Oskam's explanation. The fourth paragraph of Article 66 also provides for an exception to the mandatory intermediate step of the binding designation. That is not to say that the power would no longer exist; it is merely to say that the obligation lapses. So the college can still choose to do so. Even if there may be evidence that there is a conditional intent and a direct fine is possible, the College may choose to use a binding designation to protect personal data. In doing so, the College may set a time limit within which the infringement must be brought to an end. If the clue is followed, the fine is no longer necessary. I may have to say something about another suggestion made by the author. It concerned something we know in criminal law, the imposition of a conditional fine. Suppose someone reports a data breach, but has already taken all kinds of measures to end the leak. In order to prevent the leak from happening again, you then impose a fine on a probationary period of several years. I must say that the General Administrative Law is opposed to this. For this purpose, I refer your Chamber to the treatment of the fourth instalment of the General Administrative Law Act, Acts 2003-2004, pages 133 and 134, which explicitly states that a conditional fine does not tolerate the system of administrative law. A conditional fine is not possible. Mr Oskam mentioned it himself. When he came up with that sympathetic argument in his own right, he said: maybe you can deal with it in another way. I didn't know that either, but I've been reminded that this is excluded in the fourth instalment of the General Law on Administrative Law. But the burden of penalty payments is, of course, actually an instrument that you could use in this way. This can have the same effect as imposing a conditional fine. I'd like to point that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u123	I still have a little formal point. You have the amendment to item No. 17 have not yet received a qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u124	I have explained that the amendment to item No. 16 already deals with a number of issues, in conjunction with the bill. I think that the amendment to item No. 17 is superfluous in this case. I tried to explain that. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the That amendment provides for the scope of the reporting obligation to be extended by bringing incidents leading to a significant risk of serious adverse effects also within the scope of the reporting obligation. Moreover, the protocol obligation is limited to the leaks notified to the College. We need to be very specific about that. I see this amendment as an extension and as an incentive to inform the supervisory authority in the event of incidents with potentially serious adverse consequences for the protection of personal data. If it turns out that it was a false alarm, which can of course occur, then that notification can always be withdrawn afterwards. What is important, however, is that this reporting obligation also includes some clauseing in an extended form, so that not every potential data breach, small and large, is reported. This is also not the intention given the wider scope of the Personal Data Protection Act. I am in favour of this amendment and I would like to leave it to your Chamber. I come to the amendment to item No. 19 by Mr Schouw and Mr Segers. This amendment has been discussed extensively by Members in the first period. In fact, this amendment also regulates two things, but in a slightly different form. The amendment stipulates that the College is not bound by any legal obligation to issue a binding designation prior to the imposition of an administrative fine of the most severe category. The CBP is competent to issue a binding designation and may set a time limit. In addition, the amendment regulates, as does the amendment to item No. 16, a simplification of enforcement by the CBP, because also non-compliance with a binding designation is made self-definable administratively. What this amendment does is to confer a discretionary power on the College to impose a binding designation prior to the imposition of an administrative fine. There is therefore no longer any obligation in certain cases. This binding designation is, of course, a standard-concrete decision, in which the College again explains in an individual case exactly what the standards of the Personal Data Protection Act mean. I think that standardisation is important from the point of view of companies and organisations. I agree with those who have made comments on this. In many situations there may be discussion about how the standards of the Personal Data Protection Act should be interpreted. This also depends on the general and abstract nature of the standards. This was already noted in the review of the Personal Data Protection Act in 2009. It is important for citizens to have many of those mentioned in the context of legal certainty...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This weighs extra heavy in the government's opinion when it comes to administrative punishment, especially if standard enforcement and punishment are in one hand. If that additional clarity is not necessary because a responsible person knows very well what is expected of him, then the binding designation is not necessary. Therefore, Article 66 (4) includes intentional action, including conditional intent. If the amendment to item No. 16 is adopted, this also applies to serious negligence. In the government's view, it is really the legislator's responsibility in a formal sense to make that assessment and not that of the independent supervisor by means of a policy rule. There is, of course, no objection to the simplification of enforcement, the second part of the amendment. The second part is also dealt with in the amendment to item No. 16, but I must advise against the first part of Mr Schouw and Mr Segers' amendment. I now come to the question. Mr Schouw spoke of an evaluation within five years of its entry into force. The evaluation should focus on a number of things. I refer to compliance with the obligation to notify, the application of the College of Fines in practice, the impact on protection, the manageability of the administrative burden and the compliance costs for the companies and organisations involved. The legislative proposal itself contains in Article IVa an obligation to evaluate the obligation to notify data leaks and the power to impose fines within one year of the entry into force of the forthcoming EU regulation. Between the entry into force and application of the regulation, the cabinet estimates an implemation period of about two years. The idea behind the obligation of evaluation in the legislative proposal is that we can draw lessons from the national experience of reporting obligations and the increased powers of penalties for supervision and enforcement by the CBP. Mr Schouw was not yet in the Chamber when I said it earlier and I therefore repeat that the adoption and entry into force of the regulation is certainly not expected for 2016, given a number of issues currently under discussion within a number of Member States and the European Parliament. In the most favourable case, an evaluation could take place at the end of 2016 or otherwise in 2017.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u125	I understand that we can only evaluate properly after the European regulation has entered into force. We will then be able to compare the amendment of the law with what is provided for in the European regulation. It is a bit disappointing in terms of the negotiation process. It's gonna be a while. Is it not right, then, to choose a period of a number of years, as we do with other laws, and not to depend solely on the entry into force of that regulation? It's interesting to know how this law is gonna work out. I have specifically asked for this in view of the capacity of the CBP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u126	It's a little insecure. At first, I thought that it would go quickly with that regulation, but after the last informal Council in Latvia and in view of the position of the Commission and the European Parliament on the one hand and the position of the vast majority of Member States on the other hand, I expect there are still some hard notes to crack in 2015. That is why I think it is right to say that we should evaluate this law within five years if it enters into force in 2015. I therefore assume that the law will enter into force this year. That evaluation should therefore be carried out within five years, regardless of what is happening in Europe, because I think it is important to look at the omissions and the problems. I think that Mr Schouw and Mr Van Nispen are right about this: regardless of the regulation, you should also look at how this works at national level. What can we learn from it? This will, of course, happen frequently in the regular consultation that I have with the chairman of the College of Protection personal data. We will look at that in the interim, but I will also report to the Chamber on that. What's the effect? How many data leak reporting reports are there? I think it's good to register that, too. I think that an overall assessment after five years is a reasonable period. I come to the scope of the reporting obligation. In the first instance, the text of the bill was in line with the obligation to notify under Article 11.3a of the Telecommunications Act. What I am going to say about this is perhaps also an explanation of the amendment to item No. 19. This is actually part of that. The Telecommunications Act actually assumes that, in principle, any data breach should be reported, regardless of its impact. That is why the Telecommunications Act also lacks the word "serious." In addition, you should bear in mind that the reporting obligation for the Telecommunications Act applies only to providers of public electronic communications services, i.e. telecom providers. The legislative proposal we are discussing now concerns everyone who processes personal data. These may be private individuals,zzp'ers, local sports clubs, small companies, but also global multinationals based in the Netherlands. The scope of this reporting obligation is therefore many times greater than the reporting obligation of the Telecommunications Act. Without a more precise definition, the enforcement of this reporting obligation would become virtually unmanageable. That is why the legislative proposal, but I also believe in the amendments, states that data leaks must have serious consequences. Let me give you an example. This means, for example, that in principle it does not need to be reported when the list of members of the local basketball association is on the streets, but when third parties have unlawfully accessed the patient data of a local hospital. That example came by tonight. What should you be looking at and what should you take with you in the assessment of whether there are serious adverse effects? I think it's a good thing that we're dealing with that in this legal process. I would like to hear some reflection on this from the members of the Chamber, either in an interruption or in the second term. According to the cabinet, you could think about the nature and extent of the data breach. You might think about the nature of the leaked personal data. One could also consider the extent to which technical protection measures have been taken. Mrs Oosenbrug mentioned a number of examples from her old job. Even if there is only one GP's patient data on the street, there may already be serious consequences. In such a case, it is not about a lot of data, but it is about very sensitive data. Then the size of the data breach is again irrelevant. So you also have to make a difference between nature and size, and sensitivity. This can in itself accumulate with each other, but it can also be separate from each other's circumstances that you have to take into account. If the membership of that local basketball association is to be on the streets, then there will not be any serious adverse consequences, but this could be different in the case of a list of members that specifically include those who are late in payment. Then things could be different again, because these are more sensitive data. In my view, therefore, it is a question of the circumstances of the case. A number of Members have said that we really must leave that to the College. In my opinion, the legislative proposal and the amendments that I have embraced this evening contain a workable, balanced definition of the reporting obligation. At the moment, I see Mr Schouw, who is standing at the interrupting microphone, nodding the President of the College in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u127	This might provoke something, but I'm gonna leave that for a while. The Secretary of State asked for reflection and he mentioned a few things. I would also like to remind him of two things which I have also raised in my speech. I am referring here to the position of vulnerable groups, such as disabled people or young people. According to the Secretary of State, does a data breach involving such groups count more heavily than when it comes to people like him and me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u128	It is a good thing that Mr Schouw is calling for attention to be paid to this. There are people in society who cannot protect themselves and are therefore particularly vulnerable. They depend on others to protect them. In the past, there have also been cases where careless, serious negligence and deliberate carelessness have been associated with them. Especially when it concerns people who are not able to protect themselves properly, for example because they are not able or not able to account for it, it may be a circumstance which implies that the data is extra sensitive to those of other persons. In an individual case, the circle of persons to be protected and the sensitivity may be factual circumstances affecting them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u129	I would like to make a second point. I have mentioned the example of companies and organisations that have the core task of processing data. If they go wrong, should they count more heavily or differently than when it comes to a vegetable hall, for example, which has a different core activity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u130	I think anyone could have to deal with this bill. An additional degree of care may be expected for those responsible for the processing of data. I can imagine that, on a number of occasions, this is referred to as a repetition of criminal law with regard to those persons, whether sensitivity or, in any case, culpability may be more likely to play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u131	That's very nice. Do I understand that the examples we are discussing now have to be reflected in the directives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u132	I think the college is the supreme authority in this matter. Mr Oskam said it very strikingly: it is a measure of building case law that gives you an insight into what the college considers to be the standard that should be maintained after a period of five years. Individual cases are possible, e.g. a general practitioner or a daycare centre, in which case law is thus formed. That's something the college has to do. That is, after all, the supervisor we have appointed for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u133	The Secretary of State gives nice examples, but to get it sharp, I have another example. Suppose there is no actual violation of privacy. There is a leak or a safety problem, but the data is not accessed by third parties, and that is also certain. Can that circumstance be considered? Should CBP be careful to impose a fine in such cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u134	I have already said something about this in the debate on Amendment No 2. 17. Mrs Oosenbrug also said something about this. If a person finds that a mistake has been made or if someone finds that he has handled data files improperly, but has already recovered himself, that can of course be a circumstance for the college to say: that does not lead to punishment. That could be very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u135	That's active action. Suppose there's a mistake, a security breach, which could get data out on the street. That data has not been accessed by third parties. For example, it was picked up in time by the police or the data was otherwise lost. Anyway, no one's seen that data. Is that a circumstance that can be considered to the benefit of that organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u136	I'll think about that for a while. It's important to point this out. It is important whether the person involved in the data work, whether he himself discovers and recovers that error or whether, independently of the will of the data collector, the error is recovered by a third party. Well, that's something else, isn't it? Those are all matters that the college will have to weigh. To this end, it will have to draw up guidelines and guidelines. In practice, each case will have to be assessed individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u137	The Secretary of State asks for a reflection on this subject: in which case is it and in which case is it not? That already indicates, while I am listening to my colleagues here, how complex the matter is. What is a privacy violation and what isn't? It's starting to float a little bit now. I think we should get back to base. The moment a hack is committed outside of your control and data is stolen, you're required to report it. We're very happy about that. Personally, it goes too far for me to impose a fine because someone was hacked. The one who reports it and has his systems in order. We know by now: no matter how well you protect the system, there is always a bigger fish. There's always a check to see if you can get into the system. Then where do you put the line? I'd still check if the company that has to process the data has done anything to ensure that they are well protected, via encryption, a good firewall or other features, which I won't mention. Or did people think when there was extra money to spend: we buy a nice office for the director and we leave the system hanging with strings? I think this is more the discussion than you're going to look at it on a case-by-case basis. It concerns the basic attitude to the processing of personal data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u138	I thank Mrs Oosenbrug for the reflection. I mentioned the extent to which technical protection measures have been taken. This is a key factor in determining whether there are serious adverse effects. Other points are the extent of the data breach, the nature of the leaked data and, above all, their sensitivity. I think we, as legislators, should talk about it in this form. Very clear examples have been presented. If you have a database of people who cannot protect themselves, if you deal with it carelessly and if it has serious adverse consequences, then that could be an extra factor, as Mr Schouw pointed out. I agree with Mr Oskam and many others on this point. Mr Bishop has asked whether it is always clear when appropriate technical measures have been taken. Then it's about encryption and encryption. Article 34a (6) sets very high standards for those appropriate technical measures. The processed personal data should be made incomprehensible or inaccessible to third parties who are not entitled to access that data. This can be discussed in practice, because adequate encryption always depends on the state of the art and the developments that can take place in time. I say to Mr Bishop that the CBP will also have to point to this, because of these guidelines, but we cannot give absolute clarity in the law. Mr Segers has asked how this fine has been dealt with in other countries. He also asked for a look at the regulation before him. We have not done a detailed study of this in the drafting of the legislative proposal. In 2012, there was a limited inventory investigation into the sanctioning of breaches of privacy regulations in other countries. Administrative fines are common in other countries, but not in all 28 countries of the European Union. In the regulation, the administrative penalty instrument is a huge innovation, in order to strengthen the enforcement of privacy protection. The regulation now before us, which of course has not yet been completed, can impose very high fines. There is no general agreement in the JHA Council on the chapter of the regulation regulating sanctions. It is good to note that negotiations are still taking place on this subject. This chapter has been held by the Latvian Presidency and Luxembourg will continue to do so. I believe that the Dutch Presidency should continue to do so. Mr Van Nispen asked for the bill to be compared with the content of the regulation. I've already said something about that. I believe that the text of the legislative proposal contains scope for interpreting it in an EU-compliant manner. That is actually the answer to Mr Van Wijngaarden's question about national headlines: no, they do not come up. Mrs Helder spoke about the obligation to notify and pointed out that the clause "to serious adverse effects" does appear in the legislative proposal, but not in the draft texts of the European regulation. Mrs. Helder just saw that. The Commission's original proposal of January 2012 contained hardly any clause. In Europe, however, thought has also advanced, not least under the influence of the national data protection regulators, which led by the President of the European Parliament. This has led to the development of a JHA-based text which also contains restrictive elements. Not exactly in the same way as in our bill, along slightly different lines, but with the same intention to focus on real privacy risks and not impose unnecessary burdens. Mrs Oosenbrug asked me about the latest developments. Chapter VI of the Regulation, which sets out the reporting obligation for data leaks, did adopt a general approach in October 2014. The reporting obligation will focus on security incidents that pose a high risk of negative consequences for the fundamental rights and freedoms of data subjects. Mr Van Nispen asked me about the intergroup procedure. Actually, that's a little out of date now. With the amendment I have just embraced, we have actually averted that risk. Looking at the regulation, I have to say that Mr Van Nispen, Mr Schouw and others who have asked questions about it did have a point. I note that, in view of the current Directive 95/46, the Council of State has said that Article 28 of that currently in force permits ministerial approval. I also reported this in my letter to the Chamber of 30 January last. I do have to agree with the College's personal data protection that there are risks. I think we have limited those risks to zero with an amendment to the Segers/Schouw amendment. That is the conclusion I can make at the moment. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked me a question about publishing policy. I tasted some criticism of the publication policy of the Personal Data Protection College. I have sometimes criticized this myself. I see Mr Van Wijngaarden walking to the interrupting microphone; have I tasted that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u139	Before the Secretary of State responds to the supposed criticism, I would like to correct some of this. I just pointed out the potential effect, the risk of reputational damage. Sometimes that is just inevitable, but it does take the necessary measures to prevent this from happening. I wanted that cleared up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u140	Then I have to say that I'm alone in that criticism. However, in reply to the question, I believe that the observation that the College's policy rules on active disclosure need to be adapted is correct in itself. The power to adopt these policies naturally belongs to the CBP itself. However, I am very willing to ask the CBP if, prior to the entry into force of the law, the College would like to give me an opportunity to inform the Chamber of the appropriate policies in this area of public information. I'm sure the chairman of the college would like that, too. Mr Van Nispen further asked how to see a "security breach." The mere lack of security or vulnerability in security is not in itself a data breach, but there may be a breach of the security obligation laid down in Article 13 of the Personal Data Protection Act. The College shall then be competent to enforce the security obligation. During the recent event around the energy meter, a journalist with personal data from another had entered the system where the measurement data was stored. That action will, strictly speaking, result in a data breach. At the same time, that journalist exposed a weakness in security. That is the so-called responsible disclosure that then takes place. Mrs Helder asked Mr Van Wijngaarden and other Members also asked whether the College for the Protection of Personal Data had sufficient technological expertise. Rapid technological developments constantly raise new questions related to the protection of personal data. It's about the connection between law and technology. It also requires knowledge at that interface of law and technology. I have every reason to believe at this moment that the College is aware of this and that there is a willingness to gain expertise from organisations with more know-how, such as the National Cyber Security Centre. On the other hand, there is a willingness on the part of these organisations to provide this assistance. Mrs Oosenbrug asked me how reported leaks are used to draw lessons and combat insecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u141	I shall come back to that previous point. What is the willingness to gain expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u142	There is willingness at the college to acquire expertise if it does not have any available expertise and there is willingness at the National Cyber Security Centre and other organisations, including at the National Investigation Centre, to inform the college about knowledge and know-how that is present. There is therefore mutual willingness to exchange technological knowledge if this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u143	So I hear the Secretary of State also agree that he can very well imagine that there is such a need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u144	That might be possible, but it is obviously up to the college to assess that. I have verified whether there is a willingness to provide the expertise, which must necessarily be lent or acquired, to the other side as well. There are no obstacles to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u145	Preparedness is always beautiful, but is it also possible to do so? I don't know how it works. Is there financial space or does it still need to be created? If that space is there, the willingness is sufficient. I'd still like to hear that very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u146	In my opinion, there are also structural funds for the application of personal data protection to the College. Mr Schouw arranged this two years ago. I have no reason to believe that the college's budget is not sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u147	Not from the other organizations, either? I was also referring to the NCSC.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u148	Sure. The National Cyber Security Centre has also entered a certain amount in the budget. There is absolute capacity, know-how and skills to share the knowledge, if necessary, with the college. Then I come to Mrs Oosenbrug's question about the lessons that can be drawn. It's the college's regular way of monitoring signals from society. Signals may also give rise to changes in the policy of the college. This may also be the case with data leak notifications. If a particular type of leak occurs very often, it may be a reason for the college to pay extra attention to it. Information can also be exchanged with other authorities, including internationally. This legislative proposal also empowers the CBP to make agreements with other supervisors and to establish cooperation protocols. Such a cooperation protocol has already been concluded with the ACM. I have already dealt with the workload effects. Mr Van Nispen has asked why I assume that they will be brief. I'll take it into the legal review. It is a good thing to monitor this in the interim. The workload which I now think is brief can increase considerably in the coming years. You can't rule that out. I don't think so, but I'm not sure. In the regular consultations we have half-yearly with the college, we will look into this. I would like to comment on the name change. I have already spoken about this at the beginning of my term. "Data protection" is, in principle, a much broader concept than "personal data." In my opinion, the legislative proposal does not change the task of the college at all. It is primarily monitoring and monitoring the protection of personal data. The regulation also refers to personal data supervisors. I'd like to give you a heads-up. So I think we should not change that name change. Mr Segers asked me when the law would be reviewed. The law and its functioning will be reviewed within one year, but we have just discussed with each other that it would be good to do it within five years. This is the main line: the Regulation will enter into force within a certain period after the Regulation or independently of it, the Regulation will not enter into force at national level within five years. Mr Van Nispen asked why the person responsible should not keep a record of the security breach. The obligation to keep a record within the organisation of all infringements, serious or less serious, constitutes a considerable administrative burden. Schools andzzp'ers, for example, are also covered by the scope of this bill. In my opinion, such a registration should have real added value, otherwise we should not do it. I have already mentioned the general security obligation contained in Article 13 of the Wbp. This also implies that the responsible procedures should be in place for the timely and effective handling of security incidents. That's what the CBP's watching for. I have every respect for Mr Van Nispen's attention on this subject, but I believe that a registration obligation has no or insufficient added value. Mr President, I have answered all the questions so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u149	Let me come back to the cooperation and exchange of information with the National Cyber Security Centre. The Secretary of State says that there is a willingness on both sides to use each other's knowledge. Did I get that correctly? I see the Secretary of State nodding. Where's the responsibility? A register should also be kept. Directives need to be drawn up. The question is whether the college is the appropriate figure for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u150	I think the college is the appropriate body for that. That's what we need to get together. If it needs technological assistance, it can work with other bodies to get that assistance up to standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u151	I can imagine that the College can issue directives at value level or at principle level and say what it has to comply with. When it comes to very specific technology, I think it is more on the board of the National Cyber Security Centre. Is that also the Secretary of State's interpretation? I think that is something that can be done in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u152	We need to leave the authority where she belongs, with the college, with the authority. If expertise is to be sought, the college should do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u153	Thank you for your first-term answers. We have arrived at the second term of office, with Mr Schouw as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State, who is responsible for the privacy policy in this country, for his comprehensive answer to questions about the bill. My group is pleased and pleased that it has finally arrived and that we can discuss it on this fine Thursday evening. We've been asking a lot about it. It is good that we can now, at the beginning of 2015, give a blow to it. At least I hope that we can do that next Tuesday so that it can go across. A lot has been said about whether it's going to be an organization with teeth. It wasn't supposed to be a pit bull, but we don't want a lapdog either. It's somewhere in between. I can't escape the image of the labrador. You will encounter two types of labradors: the lazy labrador who is an all-man friend and a friend of business and the active labrador who hunts and signals and from whom a warning effect comes. I hope we created that last species together. I welcome the state Secretary's generous attitude towards the amendments tabled by the Chamber. I believe that a large number of these amendments will improve the legislative proposal. In my first term, I mentioned two important points of improvement. An important point of improvement, the Segers/Schouw amendment, has been met. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for that. The other point of improvement remains, but I can count my buttons. We will therefore have to look at how it works in practice. I do have a question about the transformation of the Segers amendment. The Secretary of State has said: we are going to transform the amendment in such a way that the term 'in consultation' means that the approval material will be transferred to the College for the protection of personal data. How does the Secretary of State intend to use this term "in consultation"? In fact, if you stay on your feet and do not want to meet the other party, and if we now agree that the term 'in consultation' is to be included in the law, it may take until the end of the day before you have a directive. I think it's good for the legal history if the Secretary of State says something about it, because that's often caused a lot of fuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u155	That, I think, will put you at the end of your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u156	No, I'm not yet, but I see Mr Van Wijngaarden dancing so nicely at the interrupt microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u157	Then we will ask Mr Van Wijngaarden to ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u158	I thank Mr Schouw for the compliment. Tonight he gave a whole anthology in which all kinds of dogs passed the revue. He just added a few more. It is important, also for history, to point out that we too want a very assertive privacy watchdog that can bark and bite. We simply agree on that. Is Mr Schouw now reassured, after the interpretation given by the Secretary of State to our amendment? After all, I was still a little concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u159	I'll come back to the dogs for actual history. Mr Van Wijngaarden has started to mention dogs. He stated behind the cathedral that the VVD group does not want pit bull. I thought that was a very remarkable statement, because I always thought the VVD group wanted a watchdog with teeth. But it didn't have to be pit bull. That has led me to think, not only about the way the VVD looks at privacy, but also about the background to Mr Van Wijngaarden's amendment. I'm suspicious about that. However, I have just said, when Mr Van Wijngaarden was not here, that I can count my buttons. The name of the PvdA spokesperson is also under the amendment and then you have a majority; I understand that. I shall come back to this later to see how we might be able to build in some guarantees for this. However, I would rather not have had it. I was talking about the term "in consultation." As far as I know, I hope that I am saying it correctly and that I have correctly understood the legislative proposal, and five directives other than once again, in consultation with the Secretary of State, must also be discussed. This concerns the existing directives, which the CPB is now using. I see the Secretary of State looking at the question, but according to my information, the existing directives of the old proposal, which has not yet been amended, should also be adopted by the Minister. If we change the amendment later, will the term 'in consultation' also cover the existing proposals? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State whether the further implementation of the directives is also being discussed with the FNV. It's very special that I have to say this. I note that the criticism of VNO-NCW has been heard in particular. We got a letter from the FNV. She writes in it: we are also there to protect the workers; we have not been spoken to in the lead, while employees sometimes suffer from bosses watching them. They feel affected by this in their privacy. So I would like to encourage the Secretary of State to include that party. With regard to naming, I would like to say the following. If you're gonna take care of big things, you shouldn't be whining about minor cases, but I think it's a bit of a missed opportunity. It will now become Authority personal data. However, the purpose of this authority is to protect personal data. That's the job: to protect. Somehow that should have been expressed in the name. That also indicates what the activity is. So I think that's a missed opportunity. I am not tabling an amendment on this, but it would be better to include the protection aspect in the name. Finally, I come to the evaluation. That's what we've been talking about. Should it be recorded after three or four years and will it take place within the framework of Europe? Anyway, that's not entirely clear to me. That is why, together with Mr Segers, my buddy, my fellow Member on this important dossier, I will put the next motion to the government. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Data Leaks and Penalty Act allows the College to impose an administrative fine on personal data protection and requires those responsible for data processing to report data leaks and record data leaks that occur;]] [[calls on the Government, the Data Leaks and Fines Act to review within four years of entry into force at least:]] [[compliance with the reporting obligation;]] [[the application and effectiveness of the penalty power;]] [[the administrative burden and compliance costs for data processors;]] [[the alignment of the law on European rules on data protection;]] [[and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouw and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33662-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u160	I say this to Mr Van Wijngaarden. If the amendment that he has tabled together with Mrs Oosenburg is adopted, and that will be done, then the effect of what I believe is a limitation is also covered by this evaluation. However, we are going to see how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u161	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. I concluded my first term with the conclusion that the legislative proposal is well-intentioned, but that, in my group's view, it clearly depends on two thoughts. On the one hand, the supervisor gets more teeth, but on the other hand, he will probably not be able to bite enough. As a result of the answers given by the Secretary of State in the first term, I came to the conclusion that the threshold for reporting obligations has indeed been raised. It should be a leak or breach that has actually had serious consequences rather than a serious breach that can reasonably be assumed to lead to the significant risk of loss of personal data. As far as my group is concerned, that is a pity. On the other hand, the Secretary of State has embraced a number of amendments, including an amendment which regulates the significant risk of serious adverse effects. This means that the threshold will be lowered again. I'm positive about that. There is also a threshold on the burden of proof. My group was wondering how the CBP could prove that it was set up. As far as my group is concerned, that threshold was too high. In this area, too, the Secretary of State has embraced an amendment. He also said that this was a conditional design. This, of course, also reduces the threshold somewhat. Finally, the Secretary of State has embraced an amendment dealing with serious and culpable negligence, which includes negligent or unwise action, which also reduces the threshold. That leads me to the conclusion that the legislative proposal with this amendment gives more teeth to the CBP. I will end by saying that I will give my group a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u162	Mr. Chairman. I've taken a lot of time in the first term, so I can keep it a lot shorter now. I would like to stress once again that the SP considers this to be a law with very good objectives. It introduces a data leak notification obligation and introduces a fine with a large fine. The SP had also insisted on this for a longer time. So that was good anyway. The SP was critical of the impact, but important amendments have been tabled. The Secretary of State has responded very well to that. That can be said at some point. In this respect, therefore, I agree with what Mr Helder said. The ministerial approval in advance was also an important point for my group. This will probably be changed in advance. I think that is an important point. I would also like to mention the extension of the scope of the reporting obligation and the immediate drawing of the red card. These are very good and necessary improvements. I would like to stress once again that my group will certainly support these amendments, so that we will indeed have that watchdog with teeth that we all want. I asked a lot of questions about the concept of'serious' in the first place. The Secretary of State mentioned a number of criteria and directions and asked us to reflect on them. This involved the nature and extent of the leak, the sensitivity of the data and the nature of the breach of security. I support that. I can add from my own point of view: the nature of the effects that have entered into force on the victims of a data breach, the timeliness of reporting and/or the attempts made by those responsible to limit the damage. Those are possible additions to that. The Secretary of State also said a few things about the security breach. I would ask him to address my two examples specifically in relation to the question of when there is now a breach of security. Is that even if hospital staff knows the doctor's password? That was an example where there may not be a data breach. Another example was the employer who accesses the employee's computer. Then perhaps no security has been broken, but does the Secretary of State say here that there are other possibilities to act against it, so that, as it were, that has the same effect? Finally, I have something to correct, because I said in the first term that the College is employing 125 people in personal data protection. It's worse than I thought, because there's only 80 of them. I made the classic mistake of rushing into the CPB. That's where 125 people work. That's kind of clumsy. So it's really 80 who work at the CBP. I have heard the Secretary of State correctly that he will monitor whether they are sufficient people, including with this law in hand. I would still like to see a comparison with the privacy watchdogs in other countries, although not necessarily tonight. What about the size of these privacy watchdogs and the number of people employed there? Good thing we're going to evaluate. I heard the motion right. Once again, I like that one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u163	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his thorough answer and, on a number of points, for his positive opinions on amendments that have been tabled, so that some things are just being tightened up. We were in favour of the proposal. In any case, we will support a number of amendments. We still have a final position to adopt as a group, but that further improves the legislative proposal so that it meets even more the purpose of the proposal. It is and remains, as we all notice, a bit of a search for how to formulate things well and where to lay the boundaries. That is why it is good not to wait too long for an evaluation to be carried out to see whether we have settled things properly, so that we can make an improvement if necessary. I have no further motions or amendments, but thank you for the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u164	Thank you for speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u165	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his constructive basic attitude tonight. We have sought this evening to strike a balance between democratic control and trust in the College's protection of personal data. We have sought a balance between effectiveness and legal certainty. I think we have also found that important. I would also like to thank those Members who look at the amendments with a constructive basic attitude. I would like to express the greatest possible appreciation for the commitment and involvement of the CPVO itself and the 80 people we have just understood are working there, because we have noticed and seen a great deal of this in the preparation of this debate. This is particularly important in terms of commitment and expertise, so I also wish them success in the exercise of their duties, and the CPVO as an institution with its role as guardian of the important fundamental right to privacy. Undoubtedly, this will sometimes lead to tension, both with governments and with companies. I also think that there is a little more tension with governments than with companies, since the first category includes more sensitive personal data. But that tension is also exactly what we're looking for. I'd say without friction, no shine. I'm hoping for a prosperous treatment in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the response, for the fruitful exchange of arguments and for the consideration of the amendments. But I would also like to congratulate you, Mr President. A motion was tabled on 5 July 2012 with Mr Recourt as the first signatory. He was very ambitious. He requested that the College's fine be settled by 1 January 2013 at the latest. That was very ambitious. It has become a little late, but we can see tonight that there is broad support for what was then laid down in that motion and that it is now laid down in legislation. It's worth a congratulations, too. You keep looking very neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u167	I'm president now and I'm not a Member of Parliament. Nevertheless, my job as a Member of Parliament is very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u168	Fine. I want to mark it, because it also shows that sometimes you have to be patient and sometimes it slows down a little bit more than you would like, but that the result may eventually be there. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for responding to the amendment. The adjustment is ready. My companion when it comes to privacy, I should also like to say something about his British colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has asked a few questions about the consultation. Maybe it's okay if the Secretary of State answers those questions before we table the amendment. That's what's ready. I have a final question about the consultation between the College and the National Cyber Security Centre and the encryption technique. There were concerns about this at the college: can we do what is asked of us; are we not over-asked when it comes to that technique? The Secretary of State has said that there must be good consultation over and over again. It might be good to sit down with the college and discuss how good working arrangements can be made. In this way, it can also be implemented in a good way. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to evaluate. I have made a further clarification on this point with Mr Schouw. Maybe we'll figure it out. If this law goes a long way, let's keep him critical at regular intervals and see if he's doing what he's supposed to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr Segers, thank you again for the compliment. I am also saying this on behalf of Mr Schouw, who was at the time a co-signator and the other co-signator. I don't know exactly who that was anymore. Were you a co-signator, too, Mrs. Helder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u170	No, Mr. Elissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u171	So that was Mr Elissen of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u172	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for the prompt and clear response. It is good to see that, although we looked at it differently, I say somewhat nuanced, we have tried together to strengthen and strengthen this law. Fortunately, there is no unnecessary administrative ballast for the organisations, not even for the CBP itself. I believe that the CBP has sufficient tools to carry out its task in the coming years. The Secretary of State has proposed that the Segers/Schouw amendment in part No. 13 to be amended. My assessment is that this amendment is going to make it in a modified form. This means that the Secretary of State or the Minister will be given an advisory role. In order to try to give substance to this and to help as a Chamber to shape the case law, I have prepared a motion together with Mr Bishop. I'll read it to you in a minute. It is a pity that the conditional penalty is not possible in the system of administrative law, as sometimes a fine is unnecessary or not proportionate and a binding designation is not always useful. Then you should have a different kind of warning. Anyway, the Secretary of State has said that the burden under penalty is also a possibility. I hope it will be used appropriately. We don't know much about it. What are the amounts involved in the periodic penalty payments? How's that going in practice? I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the CBP sets out in further directives the way in which, inter alia, the power to impose fines is to be implemented and that the Government has an advisory role to play in the implementation of these directives;]] [[Whereas, given the proportionality of the penalty power, it is important that the CPVO takes account of all the circumstances of the case;]] [[Whereas a circumstance of the case may consist of the fact that the data in question have not been accessed by third parties and have therefore not been effectively harmed by the privacy interests of the person concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to advise the CBP to take this circumstance into account in its directives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33662-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u173	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a confession: I'm much more of a cat person. I've been talking about these dogs a little bit. I was also philosophizing myself and thought: cats are nice and stubborn. You can quote them, but if things go wrong, they'll give you a tap. That is what I wish for the CBP with the legislation before it. The Labour Party was still a bit on the verge of the amendment on the ministerial review. Actually, it's very chic for us in this way. It saves another debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his good and clear answer and also for clarifying this bill. I very much look forward to the evaluation and I also congratulate the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u174	Thank you. The Secretary of State will answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u175	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term comments. We have had a constructive debate which has solved many of the problems that remain. The amendments strengthen the legislative proposal and, in my opinion, ultimately improve it. I think we have been able to maintain the balance that some Members have talked about and which I myself have also talked about. That's given to the college. I see the President of the College in the gallery and he nods that he too realizes that the balance must always be very present. Mr Schouw spoke of passive and active labradors. I won't go into it further. I always feel more at home with the passive labrador, the so-called all-man friend. That is the characterization that I always see a bit of myself, but you can also think differently about that. I have a technical comment to make, which I should have made in the first period. There will be a third letter of amendment. I say that so that Members are not surprised by it. These are some of the legislative amendments that need to be made because there are still a number of omissions in the legislative proposal. We will send that third letter of amendment before the vote. Then you will see that these relate only to technical matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u176	If you start with "all-friend" it's already unbelievable. We must be very precise about the technical changes. I really want it by noon on Monday at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u177	No problem at all. I can promise that tomorrow afternoon's letter of amendment will be in the Members' mailbox at 5 p.m. so that we can still look at it. I see that there is also an agreement in the civil servant's lodge, so that is what we are going to do. Mr Schouw has asked me to respond to the modified amendment that is currently in draft for me. Mr Segers also referred to this. On the basis of the amended amendment, Article 67 would read as follows: "The College shall consult Our Minister and Our Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations prior to the adoption of a policy rule on the interpretation of the provisions by or pursuant to the articles referred to in Article 66, second paragraph." It does say, therefore, that the College consults prior to the adoption of a policy rule. The amendment does not mean more or less. Prior to the adoption of policy rules, the President of the College will discuss the guidelines, but ultimately the College will decide on them. The criterion is also "after consultation" and not "in consultation." It is therefore expressly stated that 'is in consultation with'. That's important. Mr Schouw's other question concerns the five other directives that already exist at present. The law has no retroactive effect and therefore does not apply to guidelines already adopted. I answered that question right away. Mr Schouw also has the motion in part No. 20 submitted. This motion calls for a review of a number of points at least four years after entry into force. There is no objection to that. It's a backup to my earlier story. The evaluation could take place earlier, given what the legislative proposal says about the regulation, but I do not think this will be the case. Four years more than two years after the entry into force of the Regulation will be evaluated. That's my estimate. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I don't have a problem with it. I would like to thank Mrs Helder for her comments and for the opinion she will give to her group on the legislative proposal. I share her perception that the bill has gained power tonight. It's good to establish that. Mr Van Nispen spoke about the criteria which are important in cases where there are serious consequences. A criterion is the timeliness of reporting, because if one does not report in time, the consequences may become more serious. That may be a circumstance that affects that. Another criterion is the nature of the consequences for those in need of protection. If we wait longer to report, it will have consequences for the victims and will also affect the severity of these consequences. The same applies to attempts to limit the damage. That is in line with what Mr Oskam said in his contribution in the first term: if you do everything you can to reduce the damage, the College will have to think carefully about coming up with a punishment. That's the other side of the story. It can therefore also mitigate the serious consequences. Mr Van Nispen has mentioned two examples. The first concerned hospital staff using the doctor's password, the second concerned an employer who obtained access to an employee's computer. In both cases internal rules are dealt with. I can only imagine that every self-respecting employer demands that passwords should not be too simple. In the first example, there is not so much a data breach as an infringement of internal rules. First of all, disciplinary measures are obvious. In the second case, in which an employer obtains access to an employee's computer, the case is more complicated. The assessment of this case depends on the circumstances, which may vary on a case-by-case basis. Such a case could already be brought before the CBP by way of a complaint. This case is very specific and requires further assessment by the college. Article 13 of the existing Personal Data Protection Act already has an opportunity to address security measures at the College. Mr Van Nispen asked something else I actually take as a request for information. He mentioned the 80 FTEs of the college and asked what the privacy watchdog looks like in other countries. I'll take stock of that and let the Chamber know about it. I think it is important to include this in the evaluation. In any case, I expect Mr Schouw and perhaps Mr Van Nispen and others to return to my office, if I have been given that time, to claim additional funds in the budget. Then I come to the SGP Group. I thank Mr Bishop for his comments. Mr Bishop quite rightly said: how do you formulate it well? This proved to be the case tonight when the criteria were discussed. Mr Van Nispen said something about this in the second term, and I myself mentioned a number in my first term. I think this is very important, also in the direction by which the College will adopt those guidelines and policy rules. These are guidelines for the College, which you are also giving as co-legislator today. I think it's a good thing we're getting that wording sharp. This also applies to the case law that the College will form with this amended legislative proposal. Thank you for Mr Van Wijngaarden's comments. It is good that he gave a compliment for the involvement of the Personal Data Protection College and its employees. We sometimes say in the Ministry, or I better say: I sometimes say in the Ministry, sometimes to myself in my room, sometimes to others, that the lobby circuit is well in order. However, this does not do justice to the involvement of the employees and the chairman of the college. Mr Van Wijngaarden has said this a little more finely. I will try to do that in my contacts with the college from now on. Then I come to Mr Segers. I have dealt with his amended amendments and the question. It seems to me appropriate to note that your chairman, Mr Recourt, has made an important contribution to this, not as President, but as a Member of Parliament. In the meantime, he's been chasing me on a regular basis. It is good that this has now led to a result, so also from the cabinet's side much appreciation for following this issue so closely. Mr Segers asked me to pay attention to the contacts I have, either through the Minister or directly, with technical experts, in order to ensure that the assistance to be given to the College at certain times is available. I will consult with those responsible within the police forces and the National Coordinator for Terrorism and Security and with the Minister, and I will provide your Chamber with an answer on this point. I'll give you that promise. We will take that into account in the letter to Mr Van Nispen, in which I make that inventory. Then I come to Mr Oskam and his second term. Thank you for his comments on this point and for his contribution, which has also sharpened the spirit. We don't always have administrative law in mind every minute, at least I don't. Then it is good to be challenged a little to see if there are any other variants that are available in criminal law, for example. Mr Oskam has tabled another motion calling on the government to advise the CBP in its directives to take account of this circumstance. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to your Chamber. I believe that this motion supports the policy that I have been pursuing in recent years, and I feel strongly encouraged by the cabinet to bring this to the attention of the College. I'll leave the verdict on that motion to the Chamber. Mr Oskam asked for the amount of the penalty payment. The General Administrative Law Act sets as a standard that the amounts are in reasonable proportion to the gravity of the interest infringed and to the intended effect of the penalty payment. They are therefore not fixed amounts; they may vary in height. Finally, I would also like to thank Mrs Oosenbrug for her contribution. The comments she made from her previous employment clearly highlight the difference between security deficiencies and the question of what is now a data breach. That was a welcome addition to tonight's discussion. Here too, we have been able to tighten things up. So much for my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-9.u178	I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Chamber for this very constructive and positive evening. That's the way it's gonna be. The votes on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motion will be taken next Tuesday, so that the letter of amendment has been submitted to the Chamber before 12 noon on Monday.
