ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, following an investigation carried out by the province of Groningen, it was announced that 170,000 homes, shops, schools and hospitals need to be strengthened in order to prevent the dangers of an earthquake. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is extremely concerned about the development of the situation in Groningen. The safety of the people living there must be guaranteed. That is a basic right of the inhabitants of the Netherlands. The Minister of Economic Affairs was in Groningen yesterday. My question to him is: does he share our opinion? Can the residents of Groningen live safely at this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The safety of the inhabitants of Groningen undoubtedly needs the attention of Mr Vos of the PvdA Group, of the entire Chamber and of me. That will be the case for a long time to come. That is why we are constantly discussing the scale of gas extraction, the strengthening measures to be taken and all the compensatory measures needed for Groningen. I am well aware that this subject needs my daily attention. We have had a lot of research done into the number of houses that need to be strengthened. A steering group which has all accompanied this, which includes experts and also directors from the area, has said that these are 30,000 to 90,000 houses that need to be strengthened. Now the province of Groningen has also had research done. One apartment building has been investigated in the municipality of Delfzijl. If these results are to be released in the whole area, it is concluded that perhaps 157 000 or 170,000 houses need to be strengthened. We'll see how that works out. We started our investigations in the center area, the core area around Loppersum. This year we will carry out 11,000 follow-up inspections and there will also be high-rise construction in the further area. We will get these data together and involve them in our decision-making. The risk map assumes that 45 billion m of natural gas will be extracted and that there will be no change in natural gas extraction in the core area around Loppersum. As you know, we have now reduced the total production of natural gas and we have returned by 80% in particular in the nuclear area. We are now calculating the effects on risk maps if we gain 40 billion m 35 billion m or 30 billion m of natural gas. It is conceivable that the risks will be smaller than expected. It is also conceivable that, when you have all the data for the high-rise building in view, a plus will come out of it. It may also be that this high-rise is just outside the new risk area. On 1 May 2015 I get information from the NAM. Then advice is requested from the SodM. That's what I get on June 1, 2015. Then, on 1 July 2015, when I have all that information, I will take a decision on the risk card and the National Practice Directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u3	Groningen is a high-rise building. There's flats over there. It's not as densely populated as the Randstad, but there are apartments. Those flats were not included in the original investigation carried out by the steering committee. That's what the province of Groningen concluded. Everyone understands that an apartment like this is more dangerous in an earthquake than an ordinary home. So if the province of Groningen does research and finds that 170,000 objects are not safe, then I wonder how we're going to get to those 170,000 objects if we're going to strengthen 3,000 this year. I ask the Minister again, because I did not get a clear answer: are the Groningers who live in those 170,000 objects or, if you like, those "90,000 objects plus one flat" safe or not? That is the key question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u4	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to ask Members in the Chamber if they can be quieter, because it is almost impossible to understand. Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u5	Of course, we are not going to strengthen thousands and thousands of homes if nothing is going on there. For the safety of the people in Groningen it is necessary to strengthen. However, I do not think it is wise to say that in 170,000 buildings people are unsafe. We can't reasonably make that statement. Research has been done. In addition, it was driven from the core area, the area where the most seismicity was. All buildings up to three floors, three layers have been taken into account. That's just mentioned in the investigation report. That was known to everyone. I really don't need a report from the province of Groningen for that. You should also look further in the area, for example in Delfzijl, where there is high-rise construction. That is on the edge of the area which is not at present certain that it will be part of the risk area as well. Around 1 July, on the basis of the SodM opinion and further information that will become available, I have just explained this to you. Then we can also see what our reinforcements are. Let's not talk too easily about the 3,000 houses we're going to do this year. It's 3,000 people who just live in a house. In some, the house on the outside can be reinforced. Then you have to go in on the other side, but people can stay there. However, there are also people who need to leave their homes. That has a huge impact. It also has a huge impact on a village if you let people leave a large number of houses and if you are going to drastically redecorate all those houses or maybe even go into demolition and new construction. All this must be done in a careful way. We're working on that with full force. I intend to send the House a report on what has been done in the first three months and what will happen in the rest of this year around 1 May, i.e. about 10 days from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u6	The minister says people have to leave their homes. Are there concrete standards or criteria on the basis of which municipalities can decide to evacuate homes? I understand the Minister's disagreement with the province of Groningen as to the seriousness of the situation. Is he prepared to provide the Groningen province's report with a press release and to send that appreciation to the Chamber so that we can discuss it further if we wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u7	I think it would be wise to do that with the data that I will have to look at later. On May 1, this is very soon an analysis of the NAM on the basis of the studies I have just mentioned and the reduced gas extraction. I get the advice of the SodM a month later. I will then get this all together and communicate my conclusions towards the Chamber. I will therefore include that report and my appreciation of that report and also make it clear to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u8	It seems important to the CDA that the first step is to reduce gas extraction further. This morning we received a letter from the Minister in which he writes that this year he is going to return gas production by 3 billion cubic metres. The CDA believes that the Minister and the Groningers are stepping up in order to achieve a clear vision of the number of houses that need to be strengthened. The Minister must therefore come forward with real promises and expectations regarding the measures to strengthen houses. People are very concerned about this structural strengthening. We think that is right. We really don't like governments taking advantage of each other with different types of figures. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u9	I agree with Mrs Mulder. I think it is important for the people of Groningen that governments should work together to help solve their problems and do what is necessary in that context. It's not good to get in the way of each other. This is not the intention of the governments concerned, the municipalities, the province and the Empire. For this reason, we have agreed to create a single public service, an intergovernmental public service, which will work in Groningen, consisting of officials from the municipalities, the province and the Empire. They will do the work together. This inter-administrative service will also have a separate branch in The Hague, involving not only the Ministry of Economic Affairs, but also the ministries of VWS, BZK, Wonen and Rijksdienst en Infrastructure en Milieu. In this way, we will involve everyone who can help to create clarity and results for the Groningers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u10	Before I ask my substantive question, I have a point of order. As a point of order, I would like to add that we will be able to speak with the Minister before the summer recess...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u11	I have to interrupt you, because you're almost unheard of here. I do not think that is appropriate to you and the other Members who are speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u12	I'd like to repeat it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u13	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u14	My first point is a point of order. The Minister reiterated the timetable by which he would like to deal with the new gas extraction decision in the Chamber. That treatment falls exactly on the border of our summer recess. As a point of order, I would like to say that before the summer recess the Chamber will be able to discuss with the Minister the new gas extraction decision. I do not think it is very nice that the Minister disqualifies here the research carried out by the province with his remark that one apartment building has been investigated. In fact, he says that the investigation is not very valid. I hope he will deny that interpretation. I would also like to put a specific question to the Minister. How much time does he want to take to make sure that all Groningers can live safely? From this ambition we can then take back, after we have taken all the technical reports, how much we have to do. What is the Minister's timetable for doing so? When do all the Groningers live safely if it's up to the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u15	I understand that Mrs Van Veldhoven would like to have a debate on the conclusion that I will draw on 1 July. I will understand myself with the Chamber to allow the timing of my decision and the provision of information to the Chamber to be such that what Mrs Van Veldhoven wants can be realized. Next, I would like to comment on my comment on the study of one apartment building. We are doing a long time of research, accompanied by a steering committee which also includes directors from Groningen and all kinds of experts. This study concludes that there are between 30,000 and 90,000 houses. Then there are two possible developments. The first development is that it may be less houses. The second development is that, as stated in the report, research into high-rise buildings is not yet involved and that this is yet to come. Then I think it's quite something to come up with the story suddenly that it's about 170,000 houses. If we want to deal with the Groningen people carefully, we also need to deal with this kind of thing carefully. It is difficult to say that conclusions are drawn from the investigation into ten apartment buildings when only one apartment building has been investigated. It's no different. I do not disqualify that research, but I do find it useful to provide a second opinion and to involve it in all the information I have at my disposal in order to draw the right conclusions later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u16	For the safety of the Groningers it is important that the homes are strengthened, but also that the gas extraction goes down. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, we are not waiting until July, but rather to offer today's inhabitants in Groningen clarity about reduced gas extraction as soon as possible. My question to the Minister is about strengthening housing. I heard what the Minister said about that. He has given an explanation, but I have not heard when, as far as the Minister is concerned, all people in Groningen can live safely. 170,000 objects is an incredible amount. When can all the people in Groningen live safely? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u17	A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u18	Why does the Chamber constantly talk about 170,000 objects, when I have talked about 30,000 to 90,000 homes, where there are two possible developments that we can decide on 1 July? What is the point of taking the most disturbing figure and talking about it as if it is the only truth? Is that in the interest of the Groningen? I don't see that. I think it would be wise to carry out a transparent and responsible analysis on the basis of the information available to us and then take the right decisions. At the moment I say: that research is interesting, there will be a second opinion on it and I will include it in the other research data that I will have at my disposal later. Then I'll make a responsible decision. When will people be safe? That depends, of course, on what we are doing with regard to the extent of gas extraction. We are going to take that decision again on 1 July. We are going to decide on this on 1 January. The less gas is extracted, the more positive the effects on the earthquake problem. The strengthening of the homes also applies: it depends on how many homes need to be strengthened to what extent and how quickly we can achieve this in Groningen with the people in Groningen in a responsible way. I'll do my best to get that done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u19	170,000 properties is a lot. You could argue about that, but we'd be strengthening 3,000 this year. There's not yet a start on the recovery of those 3,000 homes, if I understand correctly. The Dagblad van het Noord and RTV Noord come up with a new fact almost weekly, which causes a pile of misery in Groningen. I really wonder: does the Minister really still feel that he is in control of the situation? For he is, apart from the VVD Group, hunting this whole Chamber against him in armor. He's just holding the NAM over his head. Is he really still in control of this emergency? Or doesn't he see it as an emergency at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u20	"He's just holding the NAM over his head." What's that supposed to mean, Mr. Chairman? I don't control the NAM at all. What I am doing is making sure that we tackle the problem that has grown in Groningen over 50, 60 years. I've been working on that every day for two years and five months now, and I'm doing everything I can to ensure that we can create a responsible situation in Groningen as soon as possible. For that I have a wide range of measures, which I have already taken and which I am going to take. I will do everything possible to ensure that the execution is quick and careful. I'm working on the safety of the people in Groningen. I'm not trying to control the NAM. Mr President, I am sorry, but I find it difficult to take such a question seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u21	I think the Groningers take such a question very seriously. My second question is: when that big blow comes next week, does the Minister tell the Groningers that he's done everything he can? Or does he say it's a fact of life?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u22	Mr President, I am not answering that at all. That's just meant to make a song here. It has nothing to do with standing up for the interests of the people in Groningen. We decided to win natural gas in Groningen. We've been working on that for 50, 60 years. There is now a serious problem there, which we are trying to tackle. I think that the seriousness of the problem and the interests of the Groningen people deserve a more serious approach than Mr Smaling is now showing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u23	The minister just said: the less gas extraction, the safer the Groningers are in their homes. My colleagues have also always asked: how fast are the Groningers as safe in their homes as the other Dutch? We hear the Minister say that this can be done by two means: strengthening and securing houses or reducing gas production. I would like to know whether or not the Groningers are as safe in their homes as the other inhabitants of the Netherlands, whether it is with reduced gas extraction or in safer homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u24	We can influence the safety of the people in Groningen in two ways. The first way is by the size of the gas extraction. There are many aspects to this that we have often talked about. The most important aspect is, of course, safety. The second way is with what we do about the safety of the houses. We have also discussed this extensively with the Chamber. As we decide on the extent of the gas extraction and the pace of strengthening the houses, the time is brought closer when there is a safe situation for the people in Groningen. However, we cannot remove the fact that there has been gas extraction there for 50, 60 years, that the soil there sounds and that there is movement in the soil. That is a fact that we are dealing with and for which we must now take the necessary measures. We're all working hard on that. That consideration is dealt with almost every week in the Chamber. The measures we need to take in this respect are far-reaching, but absolutely necessary for the safety of the people of Groningen. The government is ready to take these measures and implement them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u25	The Minister acknowledges that there are several factors that can influence the security of the Groningen people. The most important of these is the size of gas extraction. The Minister also says that there are several ways to bring the time when people are safe there closer. Then what time does the minister have in mind? And is he now willing to work out the scenarios on the different levels of gas extraction, the level of 12 billion cubic metres or 21 billion cubic metres, to see what that means for the number of houses that need strengthening, so that we can look at what ambition we agree on? The 170,000 houses the minister thinks are too much, and so does the chamber. If the Minister asks the Chamber for patience, because he still has several scenarios to work out, is he willing to explicitly give the level of gas extraction a role so that we can give a blow to that before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u26	On 1 July, on the basis of an opinion from the State Monitoring of Mines, after an analysis of the NAM, I will decide on the extent of the gas extraction in 2015. I will make a decision on the volume of gas extraction in 2016 around 1 January. That will be based on a different approach. We assume the amount of gas we need in the Netherlands to get through the winter, for electricity, for industry and to cook up in the houses. In this new system, we will first of all look at what we can import and what we can bring to the level of the Groningen gas with our capacity at nitrogen plants. We are going to look at what we still need to extract gas from Groningen if we are going to use as much foreign gas as possible at the level of the Groningen gas and use the natural gas field in Groningen for the multiple that is necessary. We'll see about January 1st next. On this basis, we can look again at the effects of this potentially reduced gas extraction on the safety of people as a result of the earthquake problem in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u27	I have not yet read the report of the province of Groningen, but is it true that the deputy of the Labour Party, Mr Moorlag, has also expressed reservations about the conclusions of that report and that it may not be entirely certain that the figures contained in the report will actually be reflected?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u28	I don't know. The report was published on Monday, yesterday. The same day there was an interview with Mr Moorlag in the NRC. I was in Groningen yesterday, so I haven't had the opportunity to read all that correctly. I do know how that report was designed in general. I also know that there is reason to take that report seriously, to provide a second opinion and to involve it in my future decision-making. However, I also know that there are other developments, as I have just outlined, and that it is very good if we present a balanced picture to the people of Groningen on the basis of all the information we have at our disposal. We should not pick out the most unfavourable and perhaps worry people unnecessarily. The people in Groningen are already troubled enough, I can assure you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-6.u29	Thank you.
