ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	The bill was dealt with in the first term a long time ago. After that, the proposal was substantially modified. We will therefore re-examine it in two instalments. I would like to welcome the members, the Minister of Health and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. It's a combination that doesn't happen that often. I would also like to welcome those who are listening and watching. It's legislation, so you have plenty of time. I would like to try to do with two interruptions with one follow-up question, but of course you can use a little more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. More than a year ago, my colleagues were here to discuss the bill. I wasn't there then, but of course I followed everything and read back. As a result, I can stand here today for the new first term. Maybe it's more of a second term, I don't know exactly what to call it. Today we are discussing the results of the Executive Test of the College for Health Insurance, now called Zorginstituut Nederland. As a result of the first deadline, the Minister decided to take this test in three parts: the designation of the outflow groups, the possibility of introducing differentiation in the compensation of health insurers and premium differentiation. The question was whether a difference could be made between target groups who could not pay the premium and who did not want to pay it. The results of the test are now available and the Minister has responded to this in substance. I think it is very good that the Minister sent the execution test directly to the Chamber and later gave her reaction to it. In this way we have been well informed about the progress of this dossier. The amended bill that we are discussing today is still aimed at bringing non-payers of care premiums back to a normal pattern of premium payments. Who's against that now? The aim is to prevent people from entering a penalty regime, because that is the system of non-payment. Is the amended law a solution to this? We had great doubts last year, and we still do. We believe that this is not the solution to the problem, but a patchwork for a deeper problem. That deeper problem is that an increasing number of people can no longer pay the cost of care. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs can see this in a broader perspective, but the Minister for Health, Health and Sport knows that more and more people can no longer afford the cost of care. People in the lowest income category spend four times as much on care as people in the highest income category. People with chronic illness often have lower incomes and 25% of them are structurally not around, red or tart on the savings. I am not even talking about the 22% of people who say they have given up care for financial reasons. I think the idea behind the bill, namely that a fine would be a deterrent and help to keep people out of the penalty regime or to let them flow quickly, is not working. However, it has a major influence on the group. Shortly after the ball, a report that was also discussed a lot last year, shows that the regime could work for new cases. I'll be right back on inflow and outflow rates. Then we will see that the inflow into this scheme is still higher than the outflow. What works well should therefore also be placed between quotes. The report Kort op de ball also concludes that non-payers are often low-income people, people whose debt to the health insurance company often comes into a pile of many other debts. It is people who have been affected by the economic crisis, who have lost their jobs and simply no longer have the opportunity to pay their fixed costs. They have the choice between the bullet and the noose, my colleague Van Gerven said last year. Do I pay the rent or do I pay the health insurance premium? And if you don't pay the rent, you're out on the street. If I had to choose between those two, I'd know. We got a lot of numbers, including in the Insurance Monitor. There are all kinds of data linked to the group that is in it and the economic background of those people, who were known to the Central Bureau of Statistics. This showed that 83% of the reservoir, the nearly 100,000 people who have been in this scheme since the start of this scheme and until today, do indeed live in a rented house. Those people may just have to do with that choice: pay their rent or their care premium. I do not think anyone wants to enter the penalty regime, certainly not someone who is already in a difficult financial situation. It may be a terrifying prospect, but if you can't turn it away, it doesn't make much sense. As far as we are concerned, the real solution is more fundamental: a fair distribution of income, but certainly also affordable care costs for everyone and, as far as we are concerned, the abolition of nominal premiums and the introduction of income-dependent premiums. I have just mentioned the criticism of the scheme from the evaluation Kort op de ball, but the Zorginstituut Nederland is also unprecedentedly critical in its letter of 6 May 2014. That is the execution test that has been asked and the SIN actually deals with what is possible. The Committee understands the Court's desire to distinguish between people who cannot pay and those who do not want to pay. I think it's really the Chamber to do the last category. However, the SIN states that it is not possible to make that distinction. Sometimes it's arbitrary, I believe, but worse: the system can't handle it. When I read that... what does it say? "The scheme as it is now being implemented is already complex and error sensitive enough. Implementation is not sufficiently stable to allow major changes to be made without risk." I wonder if we do not have a much more fundamental problem. It is a complicated system, which is perhaps too unfocused, because we are all looking here for an opportunity to get the people who cannot pay out. And then, in the execution test, we get the advice that the political desire to break up those who do not want to and those who cannot pay, but we cannot do it technically. I'm a bit of a school person who thinks: if you want something politically, then it should be regulated with systems. But we're stuck in a system that can't handle it. I'm still asking the Minister to respond to this. She did change the bill, but she says: I'm not going to make a difference because it can't be done. That was one of the parts of the law that we found interesting. We were curious as to how the Minister was going to implement it, that difference in fine that you can impose on people who you know are not paying, when they are able to do so, so it is fair to impose that fine and people who are not paying because they cannot pay. Then there's another way we can help these people. I am sorry that this has expired. I understand why the Minister did so, but I do not think that the reason for this is legitimate. How could we solve it so that it would be easier to make a difference? It became clear from the evaluation that some of the insured parties are unable to meet the responsibility of paying the independent premium. These are people who are not very good at dealing with money, who have a lot of obligations or who are not able to categorize what obligation first. This is a group for which the municipalities and also the health insurance companies have often set up a lot of well-intentioned initiatives to help them. One of these is, for example, a collective insurance scheme of the municipality. Now the Minister wants to make it compulsory for a group of people she wants to get out of the penalty regime. These are people with long-term benefits, for whom there is actually no perspective on employment, as has already been established by the municipality. In jargon this group is called the granite file. The condition is that these people have to participate in the collective insurance of the municipality. My question is this: does every municipality have that insurance? There are many municipalities that took out these insurance last year, because they could arrange compensation for people with high care costs. Look, there are very nice care arrangements with insurers, but I have also seen arrangements in which people pay significantly more than the nominal premium, when they actually don't get so many extras for that. There are even schemes that cover one's own risk with a regular payment on the premium higher than one's own risk. If you want to prevent this group of people from falling into debt or entering the penalty regime and want to oblige them to follow the municipality, you limit them in a certain way in their freedom of choice for a health insurance provider. There may be something to be said for that, but are these local schemes so optimal? Is there an overview of that? If that is not the case, would the Minister like to do so, or, for example, ask the Dutch Healthcare Authority to do so? I know that municipalities have entered into these contracts with health insurers with the best of intentions, but as I said, I see a huge difference. There are nice arrangements with a good supplementary package and with less or no own risk. However, I also see regulations that I think are: people pay a lot more premium for this than if they had closed this scheme themselves rather than having to follow the municipality. I would suggest to the Minister not to introduce yet that you are obliged to follow the municipality until we know if the municipality has a proper arrangement. Last time we discussed the 30% fine in detail. No, I'm gonna go over the math premium and the nominal premium first. Jargon is almost inevitable when you're talking about care. An average of the premium is calculated by the Ministry. That's the math premium. For example, there is also the average of the own risk that people use. That was always the basis to say: with that calculation premium plus 30% you have to deal with the moment you are in the penalty regime. That amount is then automatically collected, or by regular means. However, we have proposed the nominal premium for this. We did that because the calculation premium was actually higher. The average own risk was already in there, when you don't know if you're using your own risk. The payment of the own risk came back on top of it. The nominal premium is simply the average of the premium as determined by the health insurance provider. The Minister followed that. I think that's very good. She said that this is not possible in the current legislation and regulations, but has adapted the proposal accordingly. I think that's very nice, also because it meets the feeling that you're already getting a fine. Sometimes it's not 30%, it's 50%. That's unfair. With regard to that own risk, I would like to hear from the Minister a little bit more about what is happening. Is the average own risk now that the average of the nominal premium is taken as the basis? In other words, don't people pay that small €300 extra to their own risk now? That should be the logical consequence, but I couldn't reason that well on the basis of what we received. We also discussed the 30% fine. Can we not use it to pay off the debt that you have built up when you enter the penalty regime? We have tabled two amendments on this. In fact, two amendments have been tabled. One's from D66. They make that possible to a greater or lesser extent. The Minister dissuaded these amendments. At the same time there are pilots running. In Amsterdam this happens with Agis, but there are also other health insurance companies that participate. They say, "We see people paying the bounty, and we take them back." They then go out of the penalty regime, subject to the penalty amount being used to repay the debt. It's very nice that health insurance companies do that. If that happens voluntarily now and we know that it works under certain conditions, then I think we should impose it on everyone. It shouldn't make a difference if you're with health insurance company x or with health insurance company y. This offers prospects for people, because they will be free of their debt within a certain period of time. People can then switch to another health insurance provider. I would like to know from the Minister why, on the one hand, she loves it so much that this is there and wants to promote it at all kinds of regional meetings she has, while at the other hand she does not want to regulate it legally. I think we can do that. In my view, this also meets our suspicion that there are people who do not want to pay, but that there are also people who do not pay. Of course, people who do not want to pay deserve a fine, we have to deal with it and force them to pay the premium as soon as possible. The people who can't pay can also pay off in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	I myself have the feeling that Mrs Leijten has, namely that what is happening is actually very sympathetic. Still, you don't know how this really settles in the future. I myself wondered if we could include some kind of experimental provision in the law, like the Long-Term Care Act. How does Mrs Leijten feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	I'd rather just settle it in the law so it doesn't have to be an experiment. If, however, what Mrs Bruins Slot is outlining is a passable path for the Minister, which will enable us to find a solution to this, then of course I always want to look at it. We have been proposing this solution for as long as the scheme exists. We have always said: use that fine or part of it now for redemption. So I would like to look at it if that brings us closer to that solution. I am concerned that there are now sympathetic arrangements for health insurers. Those health insurance guys say, "Okay, we're gonna do that." But there are other health insurance companies that don't and reject that. Now we're struggling with the question of whether we should compensate health insurance companies if they do it right, or whatever. If we know we can do this, I think we should just say, guys, just do it! Do you have to do that through an experimental article? Well, there's a lot of roads leading to Rome, but it's all about us arriving in Rome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mrs Leijten specifically refers to a distinction between people who do not want to pay and those who are not able to pay. In my view, we agree that we need to accommodate people who cannot pay with various measures. However, what solutions does Mrs Leijten have for those who do not want to pay their health insurance contributions? I can't hear her say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	People are obliged to pay the care premium. People who don't want to pay end up in that penance regime. I still think you should stop people from getting into that penance regime, and make sure that people get out faster by paying off the debt. We also see that 100,000 people are already in the scheme from the beginning, without knowing if these people have a view of leaving the scheme, and without knowing if these are people who cannot pay or people who do not want to pay. It may be that with a fine you scare off the people who don't want to pay, but the people who can't pay are trapped with this. That's why the SP is looking for a solution for that last group. We got the Insurance Monitor. It shows that in that scheme the group of people with a benefit, unemployment benefit or disability benefit is really over-represented. That's the biggest group in the scheme for people who don't pay. So these are low-income people. Of the people in that reservoir of 100,000 people, two thirds of them are out of work. Furthermore, I believe that people who really do not want to pay should be forced to do so. We now have the means to do so. I am concerned that people who cannot pay should get out of the penalty regime as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	I say again that we are all trying to find solutions for those who cannot pay. However, I asked Mrs Leijten what solution she has for the fact that people do not want to pay. Of course, such a fine regime does not deter those who do not want to pay. We'll see that happen. After all, the number of defaulters is increasing. I would therefore ask Mrs Leijten once again what solutions the SP has for people who refuse to pay their care premium. They do not want to pay that care premium because, even if they have not paid the premium, they will still get the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	We've been having this debate for years. I know that in the heads of the PVV Group, everyone who does not pay does not want to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'm not saying that, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	I really don't think so. It is also apparent from the evaluation of the law that this is not the case. It says that the economic situation will lead to an increase rather than a reduction in inflow. We have already discussed this in detail in the Chamber. People who do not want to pay simply have to get into the regime very quickly, so that the premium is collected. The SP has made proposals to collect properly at the source. That is precisely what this law says. But the solutions are unfocused, especially for those who have no prospect of leaving this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mrs. Leijten, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	Because I believe that this arrangement has been made for non-willers and that no exception has been made for the non-cannons. We've been talking about putting in the storage to pay off the debt. Another point in this context is the possibility of compensating health insurers. We just shouldn't. Actually, I'd like to turn it around. Should we not impose a fine on health insurance companies who employ people for the penalty regime and who do not actually prevent people from getting a debt and a late payment? If you do as little as possible you send a note, you send another note, after which people are taken over by the Zorginstituut Nederland, that the premiums are neatly int. Actually, that's crazy. And then we would have to compensate them for that, because they would have to make payment arrangements with people. I do not think that the reserves of the health insurance companies give cause for this, but I also hope that the Minister will not go into that. In fact, would it not be an idea for those health insurance companies that employ debt collection agencies which lead to an additional debt for people who are sometimes many times higher than the arrears of the premium........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Would this not create an incentive to stop using aggressive collection agencies that charge such a high price to people who are not paying anyway, and is there no interest for the health insurance company in preventing people from entering the scheme? Can the Minister do anything with that idea? In the Insurance Monitor 2014 we received, the data of people who are in it are linked to the socio-economic status. We've been given a floor when it comes to the people who are in the pay-as-you-go scheme. What strikes me is that there's a lot less flowing out than there is. It must be a sign that health insurers are not at all in a position to prevent people from entering the penalty regime. According to the Insurance Monitor 2014 it was only in 2012 that more people left the scheme than they came into it. How does the Minister react to that? When this scheme was introduced, its predecessor, Minister Klink, said that the scheme would be so frightening that at least 50 000 people per year would flow less, so that it would become redundant in the long term. How could Secretary Klink be so wrong? Is the law as effective as he claimed and as it is claimed? Then the number of people in the scheme for more than two years. That's over 145,000, and that's a lot. The reservoir consists of people registered between September 2009 and October 2010. From the start of the scheme, there are 97,740, i.e. almost 100,000 people, who have been in the scheme for almost five years. Of this, insurers say that two thirds have no job and 15% have no income. What are we gonna do with that? What are we gonna do with a third of the file that's never gonna come out? We're gonna do something about the people with benefits, but there's also people in there without jobs. Is it possible to highlight this file and examine whether it is possible for 50% to come out of the scheme within a year? Can we further agree that in two years' time 100% of the scheme will have been released? The Minister indicated that he would be fully committed to the outflow of welfare recipients, many of whom are in that reservoir, from the administrative regime. That is a good start, but a little too economical as far as we are concerned. Of course, people with benefits are not only affected by welfare benefits, but also, for example, people with disability benefits or Wajong benefits. Can't we see if that can become one category? Are people with benefits, at a distance from the labour market and without a view of a job, people who are 100% unfit for work not actually in this way? Don't people who have a Wajong benefit and really have no perspective on work belong to that? In other words, if we are going to use this arrangement, I am in favour of it, because we really need to go to clean-up. Can we not increase that group? I'd be very sorry for that. It's already complicated; let's just make it a bigger group at once. I got an e-mail from a lady a few weeks ago. Her mother, who lived in a care facility, died. She went through her mother's financial situation, because it would have to be eliminated. She found out that her mother, since she lived in that care facility, has actually paid the administrative fine. She didn't know that at all. Probably her mother didn't pay for a couple of months before she was admitted to that care facility and therefore entered into a fine regime. That's why that mother paid an extra two and a half years. Those too are people who, in my view, are unjustly in the penalty regime or who do not even know that they are in it. Is there a visual on that? Is there a view of the group of people who, for example, live in an institution, but who are in the penalty regime? This could, of course, also happen to people with a slight intellectual disability. They would like to do something about this, but they do not know or may not be able to do anything about it, because they have no finances. I'm curious about this, because we don't have that level of numbers yet. We are aware of the socio-economic background, but are there also people in the penalty regime who really do not know that they can escape from it? I'm rounding up. Care costs for people are high, especially for low-income people. This is because we do not decide on the introduction of income-dependent care contributions and also because many economic conditions affect people in other areas: higher rents, a lower social minimum, other schemes in terms of reimbursement of care costs, abolished schemes and more and higher own contributions. We are strongly in favour of income-dependent care contributions. Then you also lost all sorts of troubles pumping around care surcharge and possible fraud with it. We also note that the scheme we are discussing today is, in its nature, very complex and very expensive and hard-hearted for people who cannot pay and who are in endless debt. Of course, we also want people simply to pay their health benefits and that the so-called profiteers do not get a chance to get care at the expense of others. That is what this scheme has been designed for, but looking at the reservoir and the socio-economic background of the people who are in the paying system, we can also say that we have made a harsh arrangement for a target group that we are not hitting or for another target group that we are hitting too hard. That is why I would like to ask the directors to elaborate on my proposals to take a serious look at the people who are unable to pay. A general pardon sounds so flattened, but in my opinion it has never been the intention of this arrangement to keep people in it endlessly and never to get out of it. I think we should clean up at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. The whole pay-as-you-go scheme is hugely complex. The creation of target groups, the introduction of test criteria, the differentiation of the premium, the stimulation of health insurance companies and so on; all this does not make it easier. This does not allow us to receive the 1 billion in outstanding premiums, which I pointed out a year ago. The introduction of premium differentiation is now fortunate, but it is going to be looked at how pay-as-you-go payers can speed up the flow of benefits. In addition, beneficiaries are offered low-cost collective care policies through their municipalities, often including an additional package and a waiver of their own risk. Isn't the focus too much on pay-as-you-go pay-as-you-go? 43% of the defaulters are not in the welfare system, but they are working. Then why are the measures aimed primarily at welfare recipients? What about, for example, a small self-employed person or a nurse with two small children who works 24 hours a week and earns €1,400? Is he or she also getting a cheap care policy, including additional package and absolving one's own risk? Probably not. If it is up to the Minister, such a person as a ungrateful person does not rush out, because only welfare recipients are eligible for this. The PVV Group wants to draw attention to people who work and pay taxes, but who are unable to make ends meet due to all the burdens imposed by the government. Should they not be the first to be helped to flow out of the pay-as-you-go scheme? What does the Minister or the Secretary of State do for this group of working people? I'm considering a motion on this point. What is the Minister doing to tackle the group of 120,000 persistent defaulters, the group that has not paid for years and is refusing to cooperate? The group responsible for more than half the outstanding amount of EUR 1 billion? 20% of this group has never even been able to collect a premium. Where's the physical control? An unannounced visit to the house seems to me to be a good interpretation of the individual approach. Link data files. A persistent pay-per-viewer with various traffic tickets for speeding has something to explain to me. If they're untraceable, take them as soon as they report to a hospital. As I said a year ago, we simply cannot maintain a healthcare system that is open to people who do not want to pay for it. I also asked the Minister a year ago for special measures to deal with immigrants who were not paying. Of course, I did not mean additional information in various languages or the organisation of meetings to explain the functioning of our healthcare system. That is a long way from being clear to immigrants. In the Netherlands you get free care, from pills to dentures and from abortion to treatment of anxiety disorder. I would like to remind the Minister once again that immigrants are three times more unpayable than natives. Why are concrete measures to address this problem again? Finally, I would like to quote the warning given by the Healthcare Institute. Most measures make the system more complex, difficult to implement and also sensitive to errors and fraud. Let us stop thinking about exceptions and exceptions to exceptions. On paper, we may get fewer contributors, but that billion in irrecoverable premiums will continue to exist, and that is incredibly much money. Make it legally possible to compensate only acute care for the persistent group of defaulters. The preventive effect that this will have is sufficient to contribute to a solution. It is also a clear measure which can be implemented quickly. I'd like a response from the Minister to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. It's been over a year since we talked about the law in this house today. Chamber and Minister have already had a detailed exchange of views on this law in a first period of time. In its first reply, the Minister indicated that the execution test which she had carried out showed that the desired possibilities for different groups to apply different penalty regimes were not feasible. It shows wisdom that the Minister did not go down that road, even though we would have liked to have done so in terms of content. That is why a slightly modified bill is now before us. The use of the VVD fraction has not changed due to the changes. To ensure solidarity in care, it is essential that everyone pays their premium. There's no room for freeriders. Therefore, we have and have maintained strong legal measures since 2009 to prevent people from becoming dispayers. Those measures aim to ensure that non-payers continue to pay contributions and that people return as much as possible to their own health insurance provider and pay the premium in a normal way. As I said last year in the first term, there are also concerns. However good it is for us to take a firm approach to paying the defaulters and ensure that the premium is paid again, it is not desirable that the penalty regime should be so severe that good people who make every effort to get back to normal contributions cannot escape the penalty regime because of the extra high premiums and fines. The Minister is aware of this concern and therefore opts for a lower administrative premium in the fine regime. If it is up to it, the average nominal premium in the market will now be used. The VVD supports that. However, I think it is important that this is legally anchored. I have therefore tabled an amendment to regulate this. This amendment also regulates something else. The penalty regime at the Zorginstituut should not become a prison for the good, but also not a hammock for those who do not want to make an effort to pay contributions to their own health insurance provider in a regular way. Therefore, there must be a premium or a fine that ensures that it never pays to remain in the penalty regime. However, the fine should not be so high as to make it impossible for many people to escape the penalty regime. I therefore propose in my amendment that the amount of the fine should be at least 10% and not more than 30%. Does the Minister agree with my group that this is a desirable band within which the fine can be fixed by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Rutte talks about the distinction to be made between people who do not want to pay and those who cannot pay. The execution test shows that this distinction cannot be made except with an individual approach. How does Mr Rutte intend to make this distinction? Is he also in favour of an individual approach as I have just suggested by, for example, home visits and linking data files to see if people might have a car and you name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u16	I am in favour of insurers, often together with municipalities, working together to ensure, before people become dispayers, that people stay out of debt and the problem of fines and that this whole regime is not necessary. I am very much in favour of that. If people do enter this regime, I think it is important that the premium they pay, including the fine, is always higher than what they would pay if they had normally continued to pay. The premium must not, however, be so high that the benevolent, and those who are also among this group, will never be able to flow out because they end up in some sort of vicious circle. Total tailor-made work for all specific groups is not feasible and that is not what I am advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u17	I think the whole House is trying to prevent people from entering the pay-as-you-go regime. I think that the whole Chamber also wants to meet those who want to, but cannot pay because of the burdens of this cabinet. Mr Rutte's amendment eases the penalty regime for the benevolent, but also for those who do not want to pay. Those who do not want to pay are rewarded by the VVD. That is why I ask again what Mr Rutte is doing to deal with this persistent group of people who do not want to pay because they do get care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u18	It is extremely important that people pay premium. We have fine schemes like this for a reason: people can no longer avoid paying contributions. They are notified to the Zorginstituut if they have not done so for six months and they are going to pay a premium. With the package of measures that I am proposing now, together with the legislation that is now before us, people really continue to pay more than if they had paid the premium in a proper way. The non-willers therefore continue to pay heavily, but it is essential that we create a regime whereby those who do not want to are always faced with a higher premium than if they had normally paid, while those who do, at some point, end up in a regime from which they can escape. They must not be faced with such a high premium that escape becomes impossible. It doesn't help anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u19	I actually have the same question, but from a completely different angle. I think this is a very sympathetic amendment. The idea that the people who really can't, should be given a better opportunity to get out of debt, appeals to me very much. But indeed the question arises: how, on what grounds, do you make that distinction? The proposal for a change, of course, has to do with the fact that you cannot make that distinction between wanting and being able to make it. I ask Mr Rutte how he sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u20	I'm not making any distinctions. Nor do I argue in favour of making a distinction. I advocate a single regime for people who do not pay their bounty. We cannot determine why people do not pay their premiums, so whether they do not want to or cannot, and that is why I am in favour of one regime. I believe that this regime should be such that it is enough for the non-willers to be deterred from getting into it so that they will pay. At the same time, the people's premium, and I am not necessarily talking about the non-customers who are prepared to do everything they can to get out of this regime and make agreements on it, must still be so affordable that it is possible for them to get out of it. So I am not making a distinction in advance, but I am trying to find a regime that unites both matters. I think that's the Minister's course, too. I'm trying to secure it legally with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u21	Then it is good to discuss this with each other. I have read the amendment in such a way that you can get 10% to 30% increase in the administrative premium. There's definitely a difference there. What's the buildup look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u22	It is a good thing that Mrs Dijkstra is asking, because that is not the way the amendment is meant to be. The Minister proposes that it be able to determine the fine premium per ministerial arrangement. She says that she will opt for the average nominal premium, but also that she could deviate from it later. It will also choose a penalty premium that basically does what has been said: high enough to be deterring, low enough to be able to flow out. However, these are some general terms. I'm just indicating a bandwidth within which that storage could be chosen. Thus, it is not a question of different storages for different groups, but the storage might be within that bandwidth. I want that guaranteed by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u23	In my speech, I said in detail that we prefer to distinguish between people who cannot and those who do not want to. The arrangement is actually made for the people who don't want it. The idea is that the fine should be so high that those who do not want to will refrain from paying, because they will be severely punished. In the execution test of the Healthcare Institute of 6 May it says that this is not really possible; that you can't really make that distinction between not wanting and not being able to make it until the case has really been viewed on an individual level, for example by a bailiff. How would the Minister make a difference to the 10% and 30%? Should it increase in time, so that you pay a higher fine if you are in it longer? Or does Mr Rutte want anyone who enters the penalty regime to be visited by someone who determines whether it is a non-willer or a non-cannon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mrs Leijten has the same misunderstanding as Mrs Dijkstra. I get that a little bit, because I seem to be proposing a kind of scale with different penalties for different groups. However, I would argue for a band within which the Minister chooses the general penalty premium. I didn't even talk about non-willers and non-cannons. For me there are well-willers and non-willers; other groups I don't know. So for everyone there will be one storage, but it must be within that bandwidth. I have chosen this one in such a way that, with that 10%, we are always above the nominal premium. I think 30% is the maximum possible storage, because up there you take away people's chance of getting out of the regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u25	Fine, that's clear. So there's going to be one regime, but within that bandwidth. I will come back to the implementation advice of the Zorginstituut. On page 7, under "Finally," it is stated that any adjustment is actually a risk to the system. In fact, it says: no matter how great the wish of the Chamber to differentiate and to respect human standards in this legislative proposal, it cannot. What is the VVD's opinion on this? It should actually be the case that we indicate the desirability of a regulation and that our wish is then implemented in the system, and that we are not limited by a system which is apparently too complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u26	I do not entirely agree with Mrs Leijten. The human dimension must be applied in particular in the preliminary phase, in which insurers, municipalities and the contributor jointly try to prevent a person from becoming a dispayer or long-term dispayer. There must be arrangements or arrangements. There are already a lot of experiments and these should be carried on. We need to get on the road to find the best practices. But at some point someone hasn't paid his premium for six months. I think that is a serious fact, especially if you know that there are all kinds of compensatory measures in the Netherlands for low-income people to be able to pay a low net premium after all. I think it's a serious fact. You can't leave that account. People come into this regime. The Healthcare Institute says that this cannot be differentiated. I agree with that; it is not possible. I will come back to what you have to do when people have flowed out again, because then we will have to look again at what we can do with each other to prevent people from getting back into this regime. This regime is certainly not a party, it should not be a party, it should not be a prison from which people can no longer escape.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr Rutte's idea of indicating the band for the ministerial arrangement is sympathetic, because we are talking about an arrangement which is still to be settled in the Chamber. For this reason, the PvdA has tabled an amendment which states that this regulation must be sent to the Chamber in advance, so that, after the Minister has worked out everything, we in the Chamber can once again check whether it responds to the question of people who have to leave the system. Do you support this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u28	I'm sympathetic to that. I think it is a good thing that we are looking at this, but what I think is even more important is that this amendment on the bandwidth that I myself am proposing is supported, because I do think that the administrative premium should be within that band and that we should now ensure it legally. It is okay if we, as a Chamber, take another look at the final proposal on the bandwidth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u29	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u30	Where was I again? I remember. Finally, I would like to pay particular attention to the outflow from the fine regime. The VVD aims to restore as many people as possible to a normal relationship with their health insurance provider, in which the premium is paid without the intervention of the Zorginstituut. Therefore, the VVD supports the rate of speeding up the flow of people who pay their premiums on a regular basis and who also comply with the commitments to pay off the premium debt. However, there is a concern. Those covered by the fine regime have to do with a preferential claim from the Zorginstituut on the income for the payment of the premium. In ordinary human language: the Healthcare Institute can collect the care premium with priority on other creditors. But as soon as people pour out, the preferred claim of the Zorginstituut lapses and any other creditors will report back. Is the Secretary of State prepared to agree, in consultation with municipalities, on the prevention of the debt problems of people who have just, or have not, been accelerated out of the healthcare institute's fine regime? For example, paying these people's care premiums remains a priority in the payment priorities. More generally, how do we prevent people from getting out of the penalty regime just as quickly? No one was helped with that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. It has already been said that we are again discussing today a bill on the care payers and everything that is needed to get this group back to a normal premium and to prevent these people from having to pay a fine. The problem of contributions in the care sector is often an indication of greater debt problems. My colleagues have already said this. That is why I would like to hear from the two leaders how they see the measures we are discussing today in the light of the greater debt problem. In addition to the problem of defaulters, it remains a challenge to get the citizens who are not insured with them. They are also a potential risk group. D66 has a few questions about this. My group is wondering how much less unpayers the Minister wants to pursue with these measures. How many people does it want to take out before they end up in debt? I would like to hear from the Minister what number she considers acceptable. In the note on the report, it states that it is actually very difficult, because the number is fluctuating. It goes up and down. People flow in and people flow out. You'll always be on that 2.5%. However, we now have a legislative proposal that must provide a solution. This should reduce the number. So I'd like to hear from the Minister what she's trying to do. In addition, my group wonders what the Minister sees as the possibility of intervening in the private domain, if there is only a delay in payment. We see that these second and fourth month letters make a huge contribution to reducing the number of people who are late in payment. Good coordination is a prerequisite for successful policies. We've seen good initiatives and best practices. In Amsterdam, the health insurance companies and the municipality work well together, but there are also initiatives in Rotterdam, for example. Do these best practices now also get a follow-up in other municipalities? Are there any other initiatives going on that we may not have a great deal of insight into? What role does the Minister see for himself to ensure that this is continued or continued? At these best practices, I will return to my amendment in a moment. We see that about 2.5% of all insured persons have been unpayable for years. In February of this year there were 330,000 defaulters. The Health Institute expects that at the end of this year there will be 338 000 people who have not paid their contributions for more than six months. Of course, that's a huge number of people. So you can also see that it does not go backwards, but only increases. Of those who have been in the administrative premium regime for more than three years, 40% receive benefits. The documents indicate that citizens are on average 14 months in the administrative premium regime. I think that's a really long time. That fine, that regime, it makes it difficult for unpayers to get out of that scheme again because they often have little to pay off. Does the Minister not agree that the administrative premium, based on this year's nominal premium of €97.50, is very high in terms of these numbers and figures? We have just had an exchange of views on this in the Rutte amendment. My group wants people to quickly get back into a normal payment pattern. If, after six months, an insured person enters that penalty regime, that premium contributes to the deterrent effect on the one hand, but on the other hand, to more debts. I have tabled an amendment to prevent this. On behalf of the SP, Mrs Leijten has already explained this point. It has tabled a similar amendment. Perhaps we should look at how we can bring these amendments together or put them together. However, the Minister did not recommend the amendments. I would ask her to reconsider this, precisely on the basis of the arguments I have just mentioned. A large part of the defaulters are young people. There are groups of young people who are very vulnerable. I'm thinking about Wajangers, for example. I see that the Minister is doing a lot of information for this group, but is there no longer any possibility? That is actually a question for the Secretary of State. D66 wants these young people to have a fair chance. So I'd like to get a response from both regiments. D66 also wants to continue to focus on prevention. The spicy figures from the monitor must be over. We see good results in the early approach of people at risk of becoming dispayers, but I would like to know from the Minister how she intends to give even more form to prevention. The Minister writes that withholding tax is successful. Regular monitoring of appropriate income for withholding tax resulted in around 36 million in 2013. That's a hell of a lot of money. Was this check done again after that? How does the Minister view an annual repetition of this? The Minister states in the explanatory statement that the effectiveness and use of withholding tax is a focus. Can she tell us what is going on with this and whether this is still an important point of attention? Finally, I would like to raise another point. In too many cases, it appears that no or incorrect GBA data are known to health insurers. The responsibility lies, of course, primarily with the citizen. Each citizen must give the right address, the address corresponding to the data from the GBA, to the health insurance provider. The Minister even states that the GBA has thus become a condition for taking out health insurance. My group would like to see the uninsured and uninsured tracked down and that the field can succeed, but without compromising the privacy of individuals. In the last note following the report, the Minister states that privacy is a focus in the way it is now being looked at and how the linking of all these different regimes is being made, but I would like to know from the Minister when we have more clarity about how this privacy is guaranteed so that you do not get to know all kinds of privacy-sensitive data that gets to the health insurance companies by linking all kinds of files. In addition, D66 asks what possibilities the Minister sees to make that system more waterproof. Worrying numbers, I told you. 330,000 contributors and tens of thousands of uninsured. These figures are an indication that much remains to be done. In particular, it is important that people who have come out of the penalty regime do not get into trouble again. With a very large number, you can see that they end up in that fine regime again. What measures does the Minister see to prevent this? I am pleased to see that this law offers opportunities to deal with these problems. We must all strive to get possible contributors back in the normal premium payment as soon as possible. I look forward to the answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr. Chairman. Everyone in the Netherlands must be insured for care. This means that every Dutch person also has to pay a health insurance premium. In many cases, that doesn't go well. The Netherlands has almost 400,000 defaulters. Is that always unwilling? No. Research shows that people end up in trouble for payment because of unemployment or divorce. But there is also a striking group among them. Many contributors are between 18 and 25 years old. They never really start paying their bounty. That is, of course, undesirable. In society, you are not only entitled to good care, but also the obligation to pay a health insurance premium. This also immediately reveals the dilemma with regard to this legislative proposal. In the theory of this bill, it's all beautifully arranged. In practice, it's hard to manage. This bill is therefore actually a rematch, because last year we discussed this with the Minister for the first time. At that time it proved impossible to distinguish between those who do not want to pay and those who cannot pay. The Minister could not distinguish between non-willers and non-cannons. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. The central question of the CDA group in this debate is therefore: much of what needs to be done is not the solution in this legislative proposal. Of course, the problem of not being able or unwilling to pay the health insurance premium and then becoming subject to an administrative regime after six months is not on its own. The issue needs to be placed in a broader context of citizens with debts, who cannot pay not only the health insurance premium, but also the rent, gas, light and taxes. The Minister also says it: it is a good cooperation between the health insurance company, the municipality and the other bodies. My question is the same as Mrs Dijkstra's: what result does the Minister expect a year after the introduction of this bill? Given the wider issue, given that this is not just the health insurance premium, the CDA Group has asked the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to be present in this debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for being here in advance. My question to her is: what contribution does this bill make to reducing the complex debt problem facing the Secretary of State in a broad sense? More than 368 000 people are in default because they are late in payment. They pay an administrative premium. That is an increase in the average care premium, as several of my colleagues have already said, with their own risk and an incentive of 30%. In February 2014, the District Court in Amsterdam ruled that the so-called administrative premium, or rather the fine, is unreasonable. This system also doubles people's pay for their own risk. According to the judge, this fine makes the cost of care so high that it hinders people from paying off their debt. The Minister appealed against this ruling. Is there any more clarity about the appeal ruling and how does it relate to the legislative proposal? Anything can, of course, be called into question if the higher court says that a fine is not allowed at all. I come to another important point. In 2013 there were 330,000 defaulters and in 2014 there are already 368.000. In a year's time, that's 38.000 more contributors. This number will continue to grow in 2015. The CDA Group considers it extremely important that we prevent someone from becoming dispayer and entering that penalty regime. There is a very important task for health insurers. That's their social duty. Many of those future unsubscribers will receive a care allowance. This care allowance is intended to cover the cost of care. The CDA Group understands that people with debt problems spend this care allowance on other matters. They have to fill one hole with the other. However, the core of the care allowance is that it is meant for care costs. Now the taxpayer pays the bill when people end up in the debt path of the fine regime. That's the upside-down world. The CDA Group is very disappointed that the healthcare allowance can no longer be paid directly by the Tax Administration to the health insurance company. That was precisely a very good preventive measure not to become a permanent contributor. 40,000 people made use of this, but this is no longer possible for new cases. Technically, it is no longer feasible by the Tax Administration, because because of the fight against fraud it has returned to a single account number system. I have to say quite frankly that health insurers themselves were not so keen on implementing this arrangement because they felt that this would involve a lot of extra work. I think that's kind of weird, because you want people to pay their bills, don't you? I'll make the following proposal to the Minister. The CDA wants if people haven't paid their contributions for several months, the health insurance provider gets the health care allowance. This seems possible, for example, by redirecting the care allowance to the health insurance company via the Central Judicial Collection Office. There must be clear criteria for such a duty, because non-committality is not a good idea. What does the Minister think of such a preventive measure? I have just tabled an amendment on this. I would very much like to hear from the Minister whether she thinks that this amendment is feasible, what she thinks it is and what else it might take to get it done. I have said before that a large number of contributors are between 18 and 25 years old. Shouldn't you also have their care allowance rerouted to the health insurance provider at an early stage? I would like a response from the Minister on this point. I find it striking that the Minister was rather negative about my earlier suggestion to make it clear in the insurance monitor how well the health insurer is implementing the non-paying scheme. She says this is business sensitive information, but I do not agree with the Minister. This law lays down by the Minister himself a legal obligation under which the health insurance provider must comply as best as possible with the retention of paying health insurance. That is why the Minister is also going to ensure that health insurance companies receive an extra premium on their costs which are very successful in getting insured people to pay properly, or give them a lower amount of health insurance that makes very little effort to make people pay their bills. This means that the Minister himself will also understand how good health insurers are doing on this issue. If the Minister lays down that duty in the law, which will then carry out it himself and gets that insight himself, why should the House of Representatives not have that insight into how good health insurers do it on this point? In the context of social accountability, I believe that this is a really positive incentive. Of course, we all want health insurance companies to do their best to ensure that people pay their bills. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. Then the Secretary of State. My question to her is whether the role of the Tax Administration as a preferred creditor is also being considered. It should be avoided that debts cannot be repaid by preventing the tax administration as a preferred creditor from making payments on the costs of care. Then there is a group on which several Members have already spoken, as Mrs Leijten has already said. That's about the welfare recipients. The Minister wants to focus on this group. It states that municipalities should be prepared to allow eligible citizens to participate in collective provisions and be prepared to include contributions on the benefit. The Minister then states that municipalities have, of course, freedom of policy in this area. All this is true, and the CDA Group also understands that, but whether municipalities are willing to offer this collective provision is, of course, decisive for the final success rate of the outflow. How is the Secretary of State going to promote this, what role does it see for herself and how, for example, can it reward and challenge municipalities that do implement this policy well? We hope for a commitment from the Secretary of State on this particular point. The Minister also indicated that she wanted to examine whether the 30% premium could be used to partially repay the debt to the health insurance provider. In any case, I shall read that back in the written answers to the questions we have received. If this is feasible, the Minister will come up with a ministerial arrangement. How far is the investigation going and to what extent does the Minister think it will succeed? There is another point to this, as the Minister also wrote, namely that the Participation Act, which is the law of the State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment, can facilitate the flow of groups. I would like to know more about this from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. So you see, Mr President, how convenient it is to have both rulers here now. Then we can check to see if what one says is exactly what the other can do. I'm curious about that. I see the rulers nodding at each other now, too. So I'm curious. The municipality of Amsterdam cooperates with the health insurance company by directly withholding the care premium of the dispayers on their benefit. As a result, defaulters do not have to pay a fine. The money for the fines is used for a payoff arrangement. The additional advantage for non-payers is that after three years the outstanding debt is regularly repaid by the health insurance provider. Rotterdam has a similar arrangement. I ask the Secretary of State if these municipalities can continue with this scheme after the legislative proposal has been introduced. The early warning allows municipalities to quickly take steps and actively approach those involved with social work. The CDA Group reads in the note following the further report that many municipalities are interested in this methodology. The question is how many municipalities want to make concrete work of this by adapting the local debt relief programmes. What will the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment do to promote this? The field, municipalities and health insurance companies, but especially municipalities, is very moving. It looks at how to ensure that people who have low income, who have debt, sometimes people still have an income, but have gotten into trouble because of other circumstances, such as divorce, they can be helped to pay off their debts. This has a close relationship with this bill. This bill regulates everything very rigidly. Everything's locked down tight. We have to stick to that in the years to come, but in practice we are very much working to see what works best. That is the way things are going at the moment. The CDA has therefore asked the Minister before why it does not include an experimental article in the law. It will enable us to see, if we are a little further, whether this law will allow us to work with all these practical experiences and all these newly developed methods. This also allows for a differentiated policy for non-willers and non-cannons. The ministers say that they do not really need this, but the CDA is looking at it differently. We think it is right to include an experimental article in the law, all the more so because the Minister himself always points out that it is very complex and also dependent on municipalities and the personal situation of people. Let us then look at what is most appropriate in practice. At the same time, we must ensure that, if we have found the golden egg chicken, we may be able to include it in the law in a temporary way. I have just tabled an amendment to that effect. There are also a number of safeguards. There is a possibility, for example, so that the Minister does not have to make use of it. If an experiment is to be conducted, it must also be limited in time. You should not abuse this article as an instrument to pass the law. Finally, I gave the article a ten-year period of operation. So after ten years, it expires. If we have found a very good measure by then, it must be incorporated into the law. I wonder what the Minister thinks of that. I ask the Secretary of State, if she looks at my amendment, whether it could be an instrument for achieving a better debt relief policy. The same applies to my amendment on the health allowance. I would ask the Secretary of State to look into that as well. Can that amendment also help the Secretary of State with the debt relief policy? It's got to be a good thing to do. Then I have one more question from the practice. We get signals that not all municipalities want to invest in aftercare to keep people out of debt but behavioural changes take a lot of time. Are the sounds that the CDA hears that aftercare is taken out of a lot of debt relief packages? Does the Secretary of State agree with the CDA that sometimes guiding people takes a lot of time to keep them out of debt? Then there are regional meetings between municipalities and health insurers. I thought something was gonna happen there. However, according to the Minister's report, the agreements relate mainly to current policies. Of course, that's important, but it doesn't make any sense. The Minister also noted that the complexity of the debt problem became clear at the meetings. That was clear to us. She actually says that cooperation between health insurance companies and municipalities is going to take a lot of extra time. The CDA Group does not consider this to be very specific from the Minister. How will the Secretary of State and the Minister take concrete action to promote cooperation between municipalities and health insurers? Is it perhaps appropriate to conclude a covenant between the VNG and other actors to set and achieve targets on this particular point? I'm gonna get to the execution test. Mrs Leijten has already quoted extensively from the letter from Zorginstituut Nederland. Zorginstituut Nederland writes that the implementation of the default scheme is already complex and error-sensitive. Then there is the ominous sentence: "there is in no way a fully controlled process." Let the CDA recognize that now! It is clear from the fact that almost 10,000 people were wrongly registered last year. How can this and how will it be prevented? It seems to be a Kafkaesque process to prove the innocence of people who have been unjustly caught up in the pay-as-you-go scheme. I have seen examples of people who have to hire a lawyer to make it clear to the Dutch Health Insurance Institute and to the health insurance company that something has gone wrong and that it has been wrongly brought to trial. Meanwhile, they're building a huge debt. Healthcare insurers are often passive, looking at it from a distance and saying that they can't help it. I found Mrs Leijten's example exemplary. Does the Minister have an insight into the causes? How can people be wrongly put into the pay-as-you-go scheme? The Zorginstituut Nederland is going to report the good payers to the health insurance company, so that the health insurance company can make an arrangement for paying off the old debt. I have already asked the Minister what criteria are in place for the good payer. The Minister has stated as a criterion that the good payer consistently fulfils the administrative premium for a long time. That's from an amazing blurryness. I would like to receive specific criteria. The health insurance provider will receive a discount on the compensation if he only complies with the collection protocol. Isn't it wise to keep three regimes? If you only get a discount if you stick to the collection protocol, what happens if you don't stick to it at all? After all, you get the same discount. Isn't it wiser to work with multiple variants? Healthcare insurers who do nothing at all, and therefore do not comply with the collection protocol, can be dealt with in this way. With a middle variant you can deal with the health insurance companies that only adhere to the collection protocol and for health insurance companies that do just one extra step, you can be more positive. I'll come to a conclusion. It's a reckless but life-size subject. Nearly 400,000 people are dispayers. So it's a lot of money and a lot of personal misery. That is why more preventive measures must be taken. In this respect, I would like to see the Minister and the Secretary of State take concrete steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u33	Finally, Mrs Bouwmeester has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. We have a system of solidarity in the Netherlands. Everyone gets the care they need: rich and poor, young and old, sick and healthy. On the other hand, we all have to pay contributions, with financial compensation being provided through the healthcare allowance. However, there is a group of people who do not pay the premium. This group of people consists of people who cannot pay the premium and people who do not want to pay the premium. People who do not want to pay undermine solidarity. That's unacceptable. People who can't pay deserve support. We are discussing an amended proposal from the Minister at this time. For the Labour Party, consideration of this amended proposal is based on the fact that more is needed to avoid default. Also more is needed to give people perspective on outflow from the fine scheme. Often a late payment to a health insurance provider is accompanied by multiple debts. Debt-taking puts financial, but also socio-economic, pressure on people. The sooner we get there and the sooner help can be provided in conjunction, the greater the risk that the situation will not worsen or get out of hand. Healthcare insurers should be the first to call on their insured persons at the time of a premium delay. How active are health insurers in this? That seems to be quite different from one health insurance provider to another. Does the Minister now have an overview of this? We asked for this last year. What is the judgement of NZa supervisor on the use of health insurance companies? We also asked for this last year. Is it true that health insurance companies are not obliged to offer this help to people? Is it even the case that there are health insurance companies that pay off people with debt, and thus actually shift them away from the penalty regime? If that is the case, I ask the Minister how this fits in with socially responsible behaviour that fits with a health insurance company that is supposed to spend our premium money and thereby demonstrate responsible behaviour. Shouldn't this just be impossible? There are also health insurers who do their best. They have jointly drawn up a collection protocol. That debt collection protocol should contribute to preventing the further out of control or the emergence of debt. In order to improve the effectiveness of the collection protocol, it needs to be much more focused on the target group. This has already been noted last year by the profession of social counsellors. They have a lot to do with people who are in debt or who have problems with, among other things, a health insurance provider. Has this protocol been amended? What does that tell you? It is precisely because there are often multiple debts in case of late payment of the premium that cooperation with debt relief, the municipality and the health insurance company is crucial. Colleagues of mine have already pointed that out. We have therefore tabled an amendment to legally anchor the cooperation between debt relief, municipalities and health insurance companies. For example, we are sure that there will be cooperation in the interests of preventing and letting go of debt or other problems. This also applies to the pre-distributed payment of the premium and its own risk. This contributes to the prevention of problems. What the Labour Party still lacks in terms of prevention are effective measures in the present sphere. They are intended to point out to specific target groups over-represented in the event of default the possibilities for support, the importance of payment and, for some people who do not take this so closely, why it should. If you don't want to pay, you undermine solidarity. What has the Minister done about this in the past year and what effect has it had? I shall now come to my second point. It's about the outflow. Where you're already behind, it's important that you have a view of getting out of debt. There are now about 330,000 people in the default scheme. People who have debts without a prospect of a debt-free life experience a heavy burden. As I have just said, this applies not only to financial matters, but also to social, daily and emotional matters. What I remember very well from my previous job as a social counsellor is the impact that debts have on the lives of people and families. The PvdA therefore considers it especially important that opportunities are created for people who are in the debt regime to get out of there, so that they have perspective again. We are disappointed that the implementation test shows that the previous measures are not working. Anyway, if something doesn't work, you have to look at another proposal. At the same time, we are pleased that there are new proposals from the cabinet. We still have some critical questions about that. One of the possibilities is that the Minister designates a target group that can outflow. Why does the Minister now only focus on welfare recipients, and not on people who have paid their contributions for a long time? Why doesn't this apply to people in the Wajong, to people with mental disabilities, or to other vulnerable target groups that you know might be willing to pay? If you are ill and depend on a low income, a benefit and hundreds of thousands of schemes, then there is a good chance that it will go wrong. My colleagues have already pointed out that some people end up in that fine regime and see no way out at all. If an exception is requested, why does the Minister not involve a much wider group than just the group of recipients of assistance? It also introduces the possibility of setting an administrative premium at a level different from the current one. How does the Minister intend to fill this out? We are all talking about a ministerial arrangement coming to the Chamber, but at the same time we have no idea which way it is going. I ask this because last time there was the intention to make all kinds of exceptions. The Chamber was very positive. Now, however, those exceptions do not seem to be possible. So in this case too, the question is what exactly does this ministerial arrangement, when it comes to it, mean? In order to ensure that the Chamber can keep a finger on the wrist, we have tabled an amendment. What's in that arrangement? Does it fit in with the pay-as-you-go? Does it offer the prospect of a debt-free life? Can people get out of trouble because of this? Is its implementation easy and accessible? The amendment will be distributed shortly. It also introduces the possibility of making a payment arrangement with the health insurance provider. If you pay neatly, you can be unsubscribed from the penalty regime and go to the health insurance company. We think that is a very good proposal in itself. I give the rulers a great compliment for that. In this way, the people who are in such a regime and want to get out will be rewarded. However, the question arises as to which criteria people must meet. How long do they have to pay? What people are we talking about? Does this also vary by type of person? I would like the Minister to clarify this. Of course, we do not want people to be handed over to the arbitrariness of an arrangement or that this becomes dependent on whether the health insurance company wants to cooperate. There are health insurers who simply don't want to be in this regime. Apparently, they're disloyal. To what extent do such health insurance companies participate in this? To what extent is it perhaps just antisocial that some of the health insurance companies spend time, money and energy on this, and another part that apparently doesn't have to do and just get away with it? There are financial arrangements to support people who have problems with paying care costs. These are initially distributed payments through the health insurance company, and compensation for the own risk of Btcg through the municipalities. Furthermore, there is the care allowance. However, it is striking that only the care allowance is known, and that these other schemes are actually not known to people. The arrangements are neither findable nor unclear. As an example, I would like to mention the money transferred to municipalities in connection with the own risk of VAT. For this purpose, an amount has been deposited with the municipalities until 2017, which is intended for income support through the Wmo. All the people I point out on that arrangement can't find her. Well, that's kind of worrying, of course. This money is for people who make care costs, but they can't find it. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. After all, we must do everything we can to prevent debt. We have to do everything we can to get people who are in debt out of it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mrs Bouwmeester of the Labour Party mentions a number of regulations that have been abolished. However, a sum has gone to the municipalities that municipalities can use for income support for people with high care costs. However, I am talking about "can." Some municipalities, for example, have taken out a collective insurance scheme with a health insurance provider. However, this also varies from one municipality to another, and not all municipalities do. People can't find these arrangements. That is indeed a problem, but it is because of the measures taken by the present cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mrs Leijten is quite right to make this point. We are in complete agreement on this. That is precisely why I am asking the cabinet how it is that people cannot find these arrangements. The money is intended for them. What role does the UNG play in this? What are other options? I therefore agree with Mrs Leijten. That's why I'm asking these questions to the cabinet. I would like to see this clarified. The ultimate goal is that the money that is intended for these people will end up with them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u37	The money that municipalities have received after a huge cut to accommodate people with a high cost of care must also be earmarked for these people. If that were the outcome of this debate, that would be very good. That money is not intended for these people. Municipalities can bet the money for this purpose, but do not have to do so. People can't find it and in one municipality it's covered by one scheme and in another municipality it's covered by another. This is indeed the result of the policy of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u38	We still agree, until the last sentence. That money is intended for chronically ill people in the municipalities. That can be used for them. The first problem is that everyone I ask says: I have no idea where I can find it. The second question is whether the money has been wagered. The purpose of this cabinet is to decentralise: make sure that the money really ends up with the people who need it. It must not be the case that people with a particular condition, including those with an income of two tonnes, receive a standard amount. Then the money doesn't end well. It was conceived as customization within municipalities. But then you have to make sure that it doesn't go wrong in the execution. I share those concerns with the SP. That is why I am asking this critical question, assuming that the cabinet has a good answer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-3.u39	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. After the suspension, which will last until 12.30 p.m., the arrangement of work will first take place, followed by the Government's first reply.
