ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u1	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the completion of the investigation by the Authority for Consumer and Market (ACM) into the cost system of the universal postal service (UPD) is still pending;]] [[Whereas the effects and costs of dismantling the infrastructure must first be clearly identified;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that no mailboxes and post offices disappear until the results of the investigation are disclosed by the ACM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34024-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u2	The CDA Group has already received a commitment on this matter from the Minister during the AO. That is why I do not understand the VAO very well, but Mr Graus wants to make his point again. I think this has already been fully agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u3	That's not a question, so we'll move on right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u4	I'd still like to respond to it. Mrs Mulder knows this because I told her after the AO that I would do this. The Minister replied to a question from me that he could not guarantee that no mailboxes and post offices would disappear. He then replied to a question from other Members of Parliament that this would not happen. Then I said something was wrong and I wanted to table a motion with a stick behind the door because the Minister said something else twice. With all due respect, the Acts must be Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u5	I very much sympathise with Mr Graus' sympathy for all those who must be able to reach a letterbox, but why is he now tabling that motion when we are talking about a law that has been in force for a long time and that motion should have been tabled much earlier? Why is he filing that motion now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u6	I'm not that fast. I might have that name. I won't file a motion until I see no other way out. I asked the Minister for the umpteenth time. I have already made this kind of request a few times about mailboxes and mailboxes. The PostMobile also came from the PVV, I say to Mrs Gesthuizen. We've been working on it for years. In the AO I asked again to ensure that nothing is done until the conclusion of the ACM is known. The minister told me he couldn't guarantee that. Afterwards, he said it wasn't gonna happen, but I didn't trust it anymore. As a stick behind the door, I'm filing a motion. I must stand up for the interests of citizens. That's my duty here as a Member of Parliament. The actual costs of the UPD have never been determined. The ACM has never been able to understand the real costs. The ACM has only validated a calculation submitted by PostNL. The ACM has not been able to see the real costs, which we simply want to have on the table. The infrastructure for the Dutch citizen may soon be halved without the actual costs being known. The Court cannot therefore determine the usefulness and necessity of this halving. That's the reason for my motion. Please Mrs. Gesthuizen, please Mrs. Mulder, I have spoken, blessed evening further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u7	On my bell it's still noon, but that doesn't matter. Mr Verhoeven did not agree to any contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mr Graus' final point. He says there's no insight into the costs, but there's full insight into the costs. We have legally stipulated that that insight should be given to the independent supervisor, who we ourselves have set up and entrusted with this task. He has that insight into the costs. Some time ago, the question was whether PostNL had to come up with such detailed information, including confidential information, in order to give the supervisor full insight. To ensure this, we have said that everything requested by the supervisor to PostNL should be given in the desired degree of detail. So there is full insight into the ACM. The ACM therefore also has views on the way in which PostNL allocates costs and makes decisions about them. There are then procedures for how PostNL can respond to this. Then there is another procedure for making that decision public. We've all recorded that with each other. The procedures are now being completed. I hope that the discussion of the Economic Affairs budget will be clarified in the form of a ruling from the ACM, which may be public. I hope that, and I hope that, will be the case for the budget debate. With respect for PostNL's business confidential information, I think it is desirable that the whole process of cost and cost allocation be made transparent to the Second and First Chambers. It seems to me appropriate to have the ACM give a briefing on this, so that the Chambers get the desired insight, again without making company confidential information public. I come to Mr Graus' motion on reducing the number of mailboxes and post offices. We can't do that until the new law arrives. In anticipation of that law, of course, nothing will happen. The number of post offices required by law and the number actually available are similar, but there are more mailboxes than required by law. PostNL has already indicated that the company does not want to anticipate the law that will enter into force on 1 January 2016 and will not be fully implemented until 2018, after consultation with all kinds of interest groups and after, for example, no changes are made at all at care homes. Apart from that, PostNL indicated that the company does not intend to introduce any changes in the number of mailboxes prior to the entry into force of a new law. So the problem Mr Graus raises is not present. The information I have given to the Chamber is correct and consistent. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u9	One short question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u10	We will see who will stand up in the Chamber for the elderly and those who are badly on their feet in shrinking areas. If the ACM knows everything, why didn't she ever say anything? The ACM has never been able to demonstrate cross-subsidisation. Why does it take so long when the ACM knows everything? That's why it takes so long. That is why, Mrs Gesthuizen, I must now table that motion. That's the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-11.u11	I see the Minister has no need to respond. On Tuesday we shall vote on the motion. I'll suspend for a few moments and then we'll move on to the Nature Protection Act.
