ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome Secretary of State Van Dam in his new role; it is his first budget on that side of the Chamber. We'll see how that goes, but I'm sure we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State. I do that with mixed feelings, because the reason he's here is because of the departure of former Secretary Mansveld. If directors are forced to resign, this is a personal tragedy, even though these tragedies are an inevitable part of politics. Anyway, now we have the first debate with this Secretary of State. For the House of Representatives, the new Secretary of State in the field of agriculture, nature, fisheries and food is an empty sheet. He's starting his book now. I hope it will be an interesting and good book, because there is a lot of work to be done in this very dynamic sector. First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to outline the main lines of his policy and to indicate to what extent they differ from his predecessor. The SP calls for a change of direction, as it is not doing well in pig and dairy farming. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to take control. So far, it has been suggested to us that the market would solve it. The phosphate ceiling, the maximum amount of manure production, left the former State Secretary to the sector. But what happened? The market exceeded the phosphate ceiling and the Secretary of State had to intervene. The result is that the aggressive mega-grown, cowboys, have been able to grow at the expense of the extensive dairy farmers, who produce in a socially responsible way: enough soil for the manure, the cow in the pasture and no megast. They are the ones who pay the price for growth. Is it the intention of the government to step up dairy farming or is it due to a lack of direction? As long as government policy steers dairy farming towards quantity and intensification, it cannot be said that the Smaling motion, which calls for quality rather than quantity, is being seriously implemented. The dairy farm is on a split. Will the Secretary of State prevent dairy farming from becoming a new bio-industry? In Flevoland, 70% of the cows are stabled permanently. Together with D66 and GroenLinks, the SP has written an initiative paper to get and keep the cow in the meadow. After all, there are already more than 300 megasthals with more than 250 cows, where the cows have correspondingly less grazing. Is the Secretary of State coming up with a bill to curb mega-stables on public health grounds? This hot potato can't be pushed forward anymore! In any case, I find it unacceptable that dairy farmers who do well should be hampered by aggressive mega-grown farmers and possibly even reduced on phosphate rights. We have described in a note an alternative plan for the distribution of the scarce phosphate space. Through the chairman, I would like to offer this note to the Secretary of State, requesting that ex ante be included in the evaluation of the phosphate plans. We propose to set up a phosphate bank and to exempt all dairy farmers with a farm smaller than 2.5 ha. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to hand over that phosphate note to the Secretary of State through you. The note may also be made available to Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	The other major problem in dairy farming, that of low prices, has the same cause, namely the abandonment of the milk quota. In August 2015, the milk price was at the lowest level since 2010. Liberalising and then subsidising seems to be the adage of this cabinet. Farmers do not want subsidies, farmers want a fair price. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give the Market Responsibility Programme for production control a serious opportunity and personally engage with the Dutch Dairymen Board and the Dutch Dairymen Trade Union? Is he prepared to draw up an action plan to enable farmers to negotiate a fair price for their product? Is he willing to consider purchasing power as market power and punish abuse? Is he prepared to give farmers who organise themselves, for example on the issue of sustainability, a better position in competition law? Pig farming has been making little or no profit for years and prices are low. From the sector you hear the sound that there are a lot of pig farmers who actually want to stop, but they can't do this because, for example, they still have a lot of debts at the bank. On the other hand, there are many areas, particularly in Brabant, where people living in the neighborhood suffer from an excessive concentration of pigs in a small area too close to the habitation. There are still many animal welfare problems in pig farming. Mother pigs are still standing among bars, despite the fact that a solution has been found with the Pro Dromi stable. Can we seize this crisis for a plan in which obsolete nuisance farms with poorer animal welfare will have the opportunity to stop and the rest will be able to continue with improved management and animal welfare? Of course, this is conditional on stopping farms not being immediately replaced by new pig farms, because then the neighbours in the congested areas still have not been helped and the environmental pressure does not decrease. Many farmers are in financial difficulties and some are forced to quit. This often gives rise to major social and psychological problems. The volunteers of the foundation Care for farmer and gardener offer these people a helping hand, but are now themselves short of money. With a small amount, this Social Democratic State Secretary can ensure that they can continue their work. I would therefore like to hear a positive opinion on the amendment we have tabled on this subject. And we also like to see butter in the fish for animal testing-free alternatives. There's some good advice, but I can't do it without money. Then nature. Natural monuments and other nature lovers are shocked by the fact that this year there is for the first time less nature. The surface of nature is shrinking for the first time since nature policy. That cannot be the answer to ecological issues! The direction is no longer in the hands of the Secretary of State, but he is responsible for the result. The national government needs to get more from the sideline to the playing field, says SP. This is certainly true of the provincial cross-border projects, such as national waters. They deserve a rich policy and a state budget. Van Vollenhoven has given the advice to maintain national monuments, which are to be grouped into national parks and set up area funds for this purpose. Why does the Secretary of State rush this advice? Can he tell exactly how he sees that? For years, the Dutch Food and War Authority has been stripped of its responsibilities with irresponsible austerity. After a series of food scandals in which the Dutch Food and War Authority stood in its shirt, the government has drawn up a plan of action to rehabilitate the Dutch Food and War Authority. However, the budget for the NVWA is lower each year than the previous year. Next year it will be lower again, and the following year again. Is the Secretary of State prepared to restore that decline in budget? Another point is the monofers. Does the Secretary of State agree with Minister Kamp that monoesters are the solution to the problem of manure? Or does he agree with us that manure digesters are subsidy digesters and that it is an end-of-pipe solution? The fermentation of manure is in line with the industrialization of livestock farming, which the government unfortunately promotes in practice. A cow's apartment with a chimney on it. I assume the Secretary of State understands that the manure from animals standing in the pasture cannot be mistaken unless he wants to go into the pasture with a shovel. The question is, therefore, whether misconception does not lead to the subsidising set-up. The SP is not the main cause of error, but it is expensive compared to other renewable energy sources and it promotes the industrialisation of livestock farming. So it's not a real solution. In the circular idea you use manure to bring the extracted nutrients back into the soil. This is in contrast to the intensive destructive agriculture that the rainforest creates through our pig feed in the manure digester. The starting point of the SDE+ grant scheme is that it is technologically neutral. A special percentage is not reserved in advance for this or that technique. This was the most important lesson from the previous SDE programme. My question to the Secretary of State is whether this will be abandoned. Green education deserves sufficient budget. Wageningen University is the victim of its own success. My question is why this university gets less per student than other technical universities. We are in favour of equal treatment and sufficient funding for green secondary vocational education. What is the State Secretary's opinion on this? Can he do anything in this area, perhaps in consultation with another fellow executive? Finally. A new Secretary of State offers new opportunities. I would like to say to him: grab those opportunities, because there is a lot to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	I see that Mr Graus has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm a little surprised here. For years I have been asking for phosphates to be extracted from stool and to label manure as brown gold. The SP didn't support that. And now the SP, even before I've had a chance to speak, is going to talk about a phosphate bank. I welcome that support, but why should it always take years for the SP to repent and reflect and support proposals from my side? Don't think of me as a PVV-Tokkie, but from now on just support good proposals that come from my side. That doesn't take years. I would also like to make a point. That concerns the NVWA. In 2010 we asked for a 500-man animal police force to be set up so that the NVWA could deal with food scandals. Partly by Mr Van Gerven's party, however, the animal police has been killed, which has stuck on 180 part-timers and now the NVWA is in trouble. How can Mr Van Gerven put on the big pants, when he himself destroyed the animal police, never supported my proposals on this point and got the NVWA into trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	To begin with, the SP has made several proposals in the past to strengthen the Dutch Food and Waring Authority. Since the beginning of this century, the number of employees of the NVWA has decreased by one third. We say that this trend must be reversed. This is recognised by the cabinet, at least by the previous Secretary of State, who said that we should rebuild it. However, this is far too little and not enough. I do not fully understand what Mr Graus said about the phosphate bank. We want less manure to be produced and there really can be a cycle. We are in favour of this. That is quite different from what Mr Graus says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	Then I don't understand the word "phosphate bank." I meant a phosphate bank to extract and store phosphates, because the Moroccans will no longer be able to supply phosphate because the mines are exhausted and the Chinese say: their own people first say that the PVV should have, then the country would have been too small so you will no longer get phosphate from us. So we will have to extract phosphates from animal faeces and urine. The second thing I wanted to say is about the animal police. 500 full-time people alone would have been needed to follow the hundreds of thousands of reports of 144. That has now been destroyed, partly by you. As a result, the NVWA also got into trouble, because it has to deal with a lot of animal suffering that the animal police should have dealt with. The NVWA must also deal with food scandals. There are plenty of them in the Netherlands. You've boycotted this yourself. So you should not put on big pants for the stage, because you have never shown them in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	You could call it a dung bank, that phosphate bank. Perhaps Mr Graus will understand. We just want less manure. The Netherlands is a small country. We have far too high manure production and far too many animals. We have now taken advantage of the problem of dairy farming because it is still a sector where bio-industry can be prevented. But we have to intervene now, otherwise we will have cow flats and we will go in the same direction as pig farming and poultry farming. We really shouldn't go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	From now on, I will allow one topic in interruptions, otherwise we will have very long interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	My interruption is about green education. I am glad that the SP Group spoke nicely about this. The CDA also considers green education to be very important. I just don't understand why the SP Group recently supported a motion to transfer green education to the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science. Does Mr Van Gerven know that this means that Wageningen University must be pulled apart? The DLO, the Agricultural Research Office, which conducts applied research, will be separated from educational activities. Where did these crocodile tears come from at SP? Mr Van Gerven could have seen that for himself when he supported the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	These are two different things. I note that Wageningen gets less budget per student when it comes to MBO education. Mr Geurts also received that letter from Wageningen University. That's what my story was about. Where should the green education go, under which ministry should that fall? At the time, we supported the motion on the basis of which it went to OCW, but that really does not mean that everything has to be pulled apart. We said education is part of education. That's not something that belongs primarily to the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	I conclude that the SP Group is breaking a leg of the golden triangle with the support of the motion of D66, Christian Union and other parties, including the VVD, I believe. That motion has reached a majority. I conclude that crocodile tears are being padded here about Wageningen. I can predict that the costs will increase even further if this motion is carried out. I call on the Secretary of State not to carry out that motion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think it is good that the Secretary of State responds to that motion and to your interpretation of its consequences. That could bring clarity. My point is that we now see that Wageningen University gets relatively less per student because the number of students has grown significantly and that Wageningen finds that unfair. We call on the Secretary of State to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	I am pleased with the answers given by Mr Van Gerven, because I would like to point out that once again, if the implementation of that motion proves that this golden triangle is going to fail, which Mr Van Gerven has always considered important because of the importance of innovation for the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	We supported that motion, but it has to work. I'm willing to listen to that very carefully. Of course, I know Wageningen University's criticism. But I do not know what that would mean in practice for negatives. That is suggested, but I would like to hear whether certain negative elements are at issue. Education must not, of course, suffer from this. One must be able to do one's job well at Wageningen University.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	I can interpret this in such a way that the content of the SP is always at the forefront, that the SP also believes that cooperation should continue to take shape in a good way and that this is a guiding factor in the final question of how the motion will be worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	The motion must work properly in practice. I do hear from the Secretary of State, now that the motion has been passed, whether he sees bears on the road that would severely harm certain parties. I don't know if this is the case. If that had been the case, we would not have voted in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	It is a bizarre assumption that innovation would be stopped if education was introduced. If you look at technical universities like Delft and Eindhoven, it seems to me that there is a lot of innovation happening there. Does Mr Van Gerven agree that the Wageningen University in particular should deal with this education because we want to get rid of this entanglement with Economic Affairs? In this way we can deal with fundamental issues in education, without having to look at whether the interests of industry or the sector are being served.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's the other side of the coin. That is also a reason why we voted in favour of the motion. In practice, it must indeed work well. Education must be independent. Wageningen University has a huge record. We have a lot to thank for this, so it must be able to function properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you. I call Mrs Lodders of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Chairman. Today we are having the first debate with the Secretary of State for Agriculture, Nature and Fisheries. The Secretary of State may represent our most beautiful sector, but that sector is also of great importance. The Netherlands is the second food exporter in the world and as a high-quality food producer makes Dutch agriculture and horticulture an important economic pillar. The VVD wishes this Secretary of State every success with this beautiful challenge. The world population will grow from seven to nine billion people in the coming decades. Prosperity is growing worldwide and therefore the demand for high-quality food. In countries such as China and India urbanisation is increasing. The space to produce food is becoming increasingly scarce. We face the great challenge of feeding all people in the future. The Netherlands is the world's second food exporter. The sector is highly productive, innovative and efficient. In addition, the Dutch farmer and gardener produces in the most sustainable way, i.e. with the least input and the lowest emissions per kilogram of product. If the rest of the world produced as efficiently as the Dutch farmer and gardener, only a quarter of the current agricultural land would be needed for the same food production worldwide. Knowing that food production will have to be minimally doubled in the long term to feed the world's population, that is worth a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	How does Mrs Lodder explain to the public that the Netherlands produces high-quality food when we have sow farms with mother pigs that are most likely to have to throw 40 piglets in three years' time, the so-called supersows? How high-quality is that? How socially responsible is that? How proud can you be of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	I see a lot of initiatives in the Dutch livestock sector, but this applies to all sectors, where production is very responsible, sustainable and efficient. Mrs Thieme may ask this question, but we do not agree on this issue. That is the difference between the PvdD and the VVD, which stands for entrepreneurship and space for entrepreneurs. We have one great goal: to feed the world's population.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	It is not quite clear to me whether Mrs Lodders thinks that such a super sow, which will soon be able to produce 40 piglets, has more piglets than she has on teats, is a high-quality and high-quality way of food production. I'd like to know if that's what she's up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	The VVD stands for high-quality food production. At the moment when Mrs Thieme and the Animal Party stop increasing the regulatory pressure, pig farmers are not challenged to take such steps. Let us now ensure that entrepreneurs are able to act in a proper manner. The first thing we need to do for this is to reduce the number of rules and stop the patronizing your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u27	What does the reduction in rules now have to do with the independent development of pig farmers producing sows that are going to deliver 40 piglets a year? What does that have to do with each other? Is that decent or not? That is the word Mrs Lodders used, so I would like to know: is this development decent in the eyes of the VVD or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u28	It has everything to do with each other, because because in this Chamber the left-wing majority constantly stacks the rule, pig farmers will have to produce more and more to deliver what they live for, namely food production. The same applies to dairy farmers. It applies to all sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u29	Is Mrs Lodder aware of fairly well-known scientific knowledge that the level of meat consumption we know in Europe and in the United States is unsustainable if we want to feed the world population? So with our very intensive meat industry, which is mainly export-oriented, we are actually trying to help the world's hunger rather than feeding the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u30	No, I don't share that. We have a huge task ahead of us. It is not for nothing that I started my input to say that the world population will grow from 7 billion to 9 billion people. Growth is going faster than we expected with each other. I have no intention, nor do I think Mr Grashoff, of telling the people of China what they are going to consume. The vague to high-quality food will only increase in the coming period. We are faced with this great task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mrs Lodder's a bit of a rattle, and that's because she can't answer my question. It is just a fact: all the analyses on the ecological footprint indicate that this level of meat consumption is not sustainable. The Netherlands is a huge meat exporter. Can Mrs Lodders not just agree with me that, if we want to contribute to feeding 9 billion mouths in this world, the first and most important contribution is to reduce meat production in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u32	We don't share that. I have not for nothing started my contribution to say that Dutch agriculture and horticulture works in a very efficient way. At the moment when the whole world would produce in the same way as we do in the Netherlands, we would only need a quarter of the agricultural area for the same food production. If Mr Grashoff believes that he can tell people in China and India that they should not consume meat, I wish him every success. It is not the line of the VVD; I will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mrs Lodders continues her speech, perhaps with a little less entrapment of comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u34	It's not entrapment, it's just the VVD's point of view. Our food is affordable, safe and of high quality. It's ingredients that make the Netherlands the frontrunner in the world. Not for nothing was the Netherlands declared best food country last year by Oxfam Novib. The Netherlands food country: if it is up to the ambition of the VVD, we will strengthen and expand this position in the coming years. The Netherlands is ideally capable of contributing to the increasing demand for good quality and safe food. A good climate, fertile land and the craftsmanship of farmers and gardeners are, as we can read in a publication of the Central Planning Bureau and the Planning Bureau for the Environment, the causes of success. Add innovation, research and knowledge to that. We cannot feed 9 billion people in the Netherlands, but the export of products and knowledge is an important link in global food supply. In its role as a frontrunner, the Netherlands can also bring agriculture to a higher level in other parts of the world. In order to meet this ambition, we need a change of direction, and that starts with the common agricultural policy. The European agricultural policy is bankrupt. The policy focuses on maintaining old agricultural policy and all kinds of desires of environmental clubs. Let me give you a few examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mrs Lodders is moving on to a new part, but I have another question about the previous one. In fact, Mrs Lodders says, in short, that we want more and cheaper, and we compete in bulk to feed the world's population. I do not hear her talk in her story about the fact that the raw materials are finite or about the ecological balance that is needed for this. Does she think that no matter how much you produce, you should always ensure an ecological balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u36	I have indicated that Dutch agriculture and horticulture produces very sustainable products. This is also endorsed in all kinds of research, both nationally and internationally. This is done in a very sustainable way, with the least input and the lowest emissions per kilogram of product. That way you can do it responsibly. We cannot, on the basis of our limitations, withdraw behind the dikes and continue to deal with the global food problem, if I may call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mrs Lodder's input is for now and not for the future. If you make a contribution for the future, you cannot disconnect the ecological balance that you need to maintain in order to feed the world. We want to leave young people a clean world, even in the future. For these young people, it is also necessary to focus on this ecological balance. My question to Mrs Lodders is: must production always at least be neutral?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u38	We're doing it in a very good way. The way in which the Netherlands does this makes the Netherlands a frontrunner worldwide. Our knowledge, our expertise is an extremely important export product to bring agriculture in other parts of the world to the same level. The way we do that in the Netherlands is wronged by a number of parties, but if all countries were to produce in the same way as we do here in the Netherlands, we would only need a quarter of the agricultural land worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u39	Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u40	No, no, Mr Graus has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mrs Lodders repeats herself and does not answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Koser Kaya cannot agree with the answer, but this is the answer of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u43	I am listening to this for half an hour and I note that there will be differences of opinion in this debate. I would ask Members to take this into account. Opinions may differ in this country. That's why we have different parties. I shall now give the floor to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I heard Mrs Lodder talking very positively about our farmers. I wonder why the VVD voted in favour of Natura 2000, which we were the only party against in this Chamber from 2006 because it is precisely the biggest blow to our farmers. Why does the VVD vote against if I have motions if we want the interests of our Dutch farmers, growers or fishermen to prevail? If we advocate abolishing the mandatory air scrubbers, which do not make any sense at all, but the farmer costs €100,000, the VVD votes against. If I ask the government to use all its powers to promote the survival of small family and family businesses, the VVD votes against. So nothing shows what Mrs Lodder is saying now, and I simply do not understand that. Perhaps Mrs Lodders can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mrs Lodders can certainly do that, because I think that Mr Graus and I have found each other on a number of motions over the past period and will continue to do so in the future. He will certainly talk about manure policy in an interruption or in his own contribution. That's where we'll find each other. I'm not gonna respond to all the motions, but I'm gonna take a look at the family businesses. The VVD makes no choice here. We believe that an entrepreneur can choose for himself: a family business, a larger business or otherwise. The VVD stands for entrepreneurship and space for entrepreneurship. I think we are in the same position here, I say to Mr Graus. Let us look at how we can shape this space for entrepreneurs through this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u46	I'm glad to hear that in the early morning, Madam President. I hope, however, that Mrs Lodders will be able to exert pressure within her group to distance herself from the European Union. After all, it necks our farmers, gardeners and fishermen like no other. We must all fight this in the interests of our family and family businesses. That's the only question I have left. Mrs Lodders makes no distinction between family and family businesses and, for example, mega stables, to name but a few. It can't be that Mrs. Lodder wants those ancient family and family businesses, passed on from father to son, to be destroyed by a few megasths, those few giants. One of these megasts destroys dozens of companies. Mrs. Lodders can't be in favour of that, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mrs Lodders believes that we should give these companies room for manoeuvre. We do this by reducing the regulatory burden, by giving these entrepreneurs room for action. That is not the case at the moment. I shall also look at Mr Graus. I do not have them at hand, but there are also a number of motions that Mr Graus does not support. When it comes to all kinds of additional animal welfare requirements, Mr Graus is the first to put his name under a motion, but such a motion leads to high burdens and costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u48	The VVD wants production, production, production and manure, manure, manure. That is what we get in the Netherlands. In South America, the land is eroded and the forests disappear. Is that sustainable now? Can the spokesperson of the VVD, who wants more and more production, reflect on the fact that the manure ceiling, the phosphate ceiling, is being exceeded in the Netherlands, certainly within dairy farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u49	That's a lot of questions. As far as the ambition of the VVD is concerned, we want to give space to entrepreneurs to undertake. We see that entrepreneurs in the Netherlands can play an important role in food supply worldwide. Again, we are not going to feed 9 billion people, but with our knowledge and expertise we can bring agriculture to a higher level in other parts of the world. I think that is precisely what is needed in order, for example, to succeed in China and India in terms of sustainability, that footprint. Mr Van Gerven also asked about the phosphate ceiling. We are going to have another debate with each other soon. Look at what has been imposed on the Dutch livestock sector in recent years. We are asking more and more of the dairy farmer, the pig farmer and the poultry farmer. It's gonna have to be paid. I note that Mr Van Gerven and his group are also involved in this Chamber, so that we are increasingly asking the individual farmer and the production that is being delivered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u50	Now it's gonna be beautiful! The VVD's turning it around. The problem is precisely the liberalisation of the VVD! Take the abolition of the milk quota. Farmers started producing like crazy because they thought they could make more money. Does this trend of liberalisation and focus on more, more and more production not mean the neck of the family business? Does this not lead to growth for the cowboys, the brutal mega-grown, at the expense of the family business, which the Netherlands has been proud of for over a hundred years? This is eroded, broken down, by the policy of liberalisation and production orientation advocated by the VVD. Should we not move towards a system which favours the less intensively employed farmer and the family farm compared to those mega-grown?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u51	I don't share that. The VVD believes that there are still a lot of opportunities in livestock farming. Mr Van Gerven presented a proposal within the framework of the manure dossier. We just got it handed out, so I haven't been able to read it yet. But with such a proposal there will be additional rules and burdens for dairy farmers. Cow manure, pig manure and poultry manure contain very valuable raw materials. Let us ensure that we can carry out the innovations in which the Netherlands is leading, such as removing phosphate from manure and making mineral concentrate from manure. This means that we can reduce the use of fertilizers. Mr Van Gerven's party should also be in favour of this, because the fertilizer industry is the largest natural gas consumer in the Netherlands, industrially speaking. There's a lot to be done with that. However, the regulation hinders this. According to the VVD, that's where the odds lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u52	Apart from production, the VVD talks about knowledge and expertise. I'll share that. Only, when it comes to production, it's kind of hard on me. The VVD says that the focus on production is important for her, but that government regulation stands in the way of that. Regulations are in the way of farmers according to the VVD. But isn't it much more the economic system that gets in the way of farmers, which puts them in a rat race to the bottom? Isn't it true that they can't make any more money because of the way in which we squeezed our food production into an economic model?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u53	No, I don't share that. I will not return the question to Mrs Dik-Faber, but perhaps we will come back to her. I note that the Christian Union is also the party that increases the regulatory pressure. Let me give you an example which I will mention in my speech. Farmers are not allowed to use 5% of their land in this country, in Europe. We are then putting in place a system of subsidies for farmers to compensate for the loss of income. That's really ridiculous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u54	I shall be speaking about it later in my speech. I want to talk about the pig cycle now. I didn't know it was an economic term, but it's real. The pig cycle means that a farmer with his pigs earns a certain amount, but cannot keep his head above water at some point. That's why he's going to produce more pigs, which is why his prices are falling. The falling prices mean he can't keep his head above water. That's why he takes even more pigs into his stable to earn that sandwich again. That's the pig cycle. When all pig farmers do so, it's an economic term, so this also applies to other sectors. We're in a rat race to the bottom, aren't we? Then we must let go of the government as market master and indicate how farmers can have a fair wage model. In fact, my question is: do young farmers in our country still have a future in the current economic system, in which the pig cycle is so dominant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u55	That really starts with the regulatory burden in this country. Europe is proposing a certain amount of square meters to the same pig that Mrs Dik-Faber is talking about. What does the Netherlands do? In the Netherlands, a pig farmer must have 25% more space. He can't keep more pigs there, so he'll have to earn it on other points. The sector is in severe weather. Pig prices are under pressure, as we see over the years. One time they're a little higher and the other time they're a little lower. Now they're in trouble. Then we have all kinds of other rules. We have had a debate on the four-day requirement on several occasions. I also mention valve inspection, checking pigs before they go to the slaughterhouse. In the Netherlands that happens by truck, but in Germany you will only live in Overijssel or in Limburg near the border; then that's five kilometers further away they have that burden in a very different way and the costs are much lower. So we're making things very difficult for that farmer with our regulations. In pig farming, the water is not to the farmers' lips, but even higher. In particular, I would say to Mrs Dik-Faber that we should look at our own policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u56	From now on, brief questions and concise answers. Mrs. Lodders is moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yeah, I'm moving on. I had stayed with the reference to a number of examples. I call the French farmers. France's farmers remained stabbed in the 1980s, with small-scale farms where no innovations have taken place to produce more efficiently. Now that prices for meat and milk are lagging behind, we are looking at Brussels for compensation. Almost as a matter of course, the common agricultural policy draws the wallet. Direct income support, such as a reduction in labour costs and interest depreciation, rewards the policy of the last century. I would also like to mention the amount of money that the Netherlands from Brussels has to pay to deal with the crisis in livestock farming. I understand farmers can apply for a subsidy on a GPS tracking system for meadowbird nests. That may sound good, but these are measures that will make a litre of milk even more expensive. As I have just said in an interruption, it is bizarre that a farmer should not use 5% of his country for the cultivation of potatoes, onions or other crops. We come up with a rule and then we have to compensate this farmer for the adverse consequences of not having to use his land. On the basis of this policy, a farmer remains structurally dependent on subsidies. The VVD wants to get rid of this. The VVD opts for a policy that offers scope for entrepreneurship, drives innovations and ensures that farmers can get started by strengthening competitiveness and broadening their export position. Give the sector the space to respond to societal needs. In the direction of Mrs Dikkers, I say: no government dictatorship, but if the consumer asks for animal-friendly or even more sustainable pieces of meat, the entrepreneur will respond to this. There is therefore a fair price to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u58	I listened to Mrs Lodder's contribution from the VVD Group and her crusade against the common agricultural policy. Could Mrs Lodders tell us what rules in the field of nature and the environment would disappear in the Netherlands if income support were to disappear, say: the common agricultural policy in Europe is disappearing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u59	I am not going to name them all, because then I will be standing here for another hour; I think I would do the President very little. I am just looking at the Nitrates Directive, the Groundwater Directive and the Water Framework Directive. With these three directives, a huge number of demands will be made in the farmers' yard. On the one hand, they have the same objective, but on the other hand, they set different conditions for a farmer to meet. That can be much more efficient and much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u60	I would have liked to have heard some more examples, because I do not think this example is so strong. Mrs Lodders has just spoken about social wishes. Does the VVD really have the impression that if the common agricultural policy and income support disappear, water quality will suddenly deteriorate? That is what Mrs Lodder is saying. She does not stand for the quality in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u61	I'll stand for that. I have already mentioned a few examples in my speech, so Mr Geurts can take them with him. The water quality just needs to be good. This is also what the VVD stands for, but we do not need to organise and lay down this in three different directives with all kinds of target requirements that an entrepreneur has to comply with. In very large parts our water quality meets strict standards; I do not have to explain that to Mr Geurts. That is good, because we use that water for our drinking water supply. At the same time, you must, of course, dare to let go of all these restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mrs Lodders spoke directly to me about the fact that citizens should pay for animal welfare through a plus on the price of meat. I would like to point out that we are allocating 82 million or 83 million to finance regular stables, and that we are providing huge SDE+ subsidies to ensure that chicken farmers get rid of the shit in Moerdijk. The consumer already pays and if the consumer pays and indicates that he wants more animal welfare, that can also be arranged at the front. You don't have to do that through the star system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u63	I didn't hear a question. I have just looked at the Journal and the consumer's reaction in the supermarket to Mrs Dikkers' proposal came in the picture. It wasn't in this line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u64	Does Mrs Lodder say that EU subsidies are no longer allowed to go to Dutch farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u65	The VVD wants to get rid of the large amount of agricultural subsidies currently used to compensate for all the rules we lay down. She wants much less subsidies. The fact that subsidies are opposed to stimulating innovation is fine. However, the example that is most appealing to the imagination is that a farmer should not use 5% of his land and that this should be structurally compensated by subsidies. My group wants to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mrs. Lodders wants to eat off both sides, and we can't. Either it is against agricultural subsidies, and she says: we do not want a European agricultural policy, or she says: we do want a European agricultural policy, and it includes subsidies, but in a different way; these subsidies must be used for sustainability and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u67	I said that the common European agricultural policy is bankrupt. It focuses on maintaining the old agricultural policy. We want to make a move towards agriculture as it has taken shape in the Netherlands, in other words in a sustainable, innovative and efficient way. That must be an example for the rest of the world. The aim must be to stimulate innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Geurts, you have already been on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u69	When I hear so much bullshit, I have to go forward. This can't be happening. I will repeat Mrs Lodder's words: this is nonsense. She uses those words on all themes. The point is that a new agricultural policy has been put in place which imposes social demands on farmers and growers, which are also subject to compensation for their introduction. Can Mrs Lodders explain to me what really happens if the plans of the VVD continue? What do they mean for agriculture in the Netherlands? Does Mrs Lodders know that the common agricultural policy costs every European €2 per week? Large amounts of money? What does she mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u70	If I look through my eye hairs and the VVD gets to say it, then I see an agricultural policy where innovation is the top priority. This means that entrepreneurs are given the opportunity to undertake and do what they are good at. I remember the debate in which we talked about the new period of the common agricultural policy. I understand Mr Geurts, because of course he is struggling with that. He has supported a number of motions to give shape to these restrictions for entrepreneurs. The VVD wants to get rid of that. She doesn't think it's normal that you shouldn't use 5% of your land. She doesn't think it's normal for a desk to determine whether you can grow corn or wheat. She does not think it is normal for a desk to determine how long that crop may be on land.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u71	I would like to hear what motions Mrs Lodder is referring to. In my opinion, the VVD Group also supported the motions on the common agricultural policy and greening. Together with the Christian Union and the SGP, we have tried to achieve a somewhat active greening policy in the Netherlands. I would like to hear from Mrs Lodder what motions we have supported during this period and not her group, which stand in the way of entrepreneurs in agriculture and horticulture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u72	I'm referring to the amount of catch crops. Had that been broader and had left that choice to the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u73	In the meantime, I think the Secretary of State is aware of what a fantastic committee this is. I have been saying for years that we should get rid of these subsidies. I just want the costs that need to be incurred for animal welfare and the environment to fall into the market price. That is a much fairer way and then you are not dependent on changing subsidies. I agree with Mrs Lodder's position, but at the same time, in practice, it often leads to the abolition of subsidies while the rules continue. Then we have nothing. How do we prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u74	By not removing subsidies without actually delivering butter to the fish, that is the deletion of such rules. I refer here to the implementation and interpretation of the Nitrate Directive. We shall certainly come back to that in the debate on manure and phosphate rights. I believe that the nitrate content in the Netherlands is measured at 70 or 90 cm. In Denmark, they do that at 9 meters. Is it weird that there's a difference? That's the kind of thing we need to get rid of. Don't delete anything until this is settled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u75	I couldn't agree more. We can therefore rely on the VVD Group to abolish subsidies only if something comes back in another way, either because of fewer rules, or because the costs are simply in the market price, so that farmers get a fair price for a fair product. That will have to be arranged for a number of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u76	I will briefly say two things about this. Butter on the fish. Removing subsidies means deleting them in regulations. If it is about the fair price, I say: yes, but no government dictation. The consumer determines what he eats and at what price.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u77	There must be no rules or regulations that protect the environment and protect the animals. It must all come from the market. If that is the starting point of the VVD, how can the system become more animal-friendly if the Dutch consumer only affects 30% of what is produced? Because 70% goes abroad. Of course, Mrs Lodders agrees with me on this. What exactly is the power of the consumer here? How big is it if only 30% of what is produced is intended for the Dutch consumer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u78	The power is as great as what the consumer takes from the shop shelves: what goes in the cart when the consumer stands in front of the shelves? I certainly do not share Mrs Thieme's view that environmental problems or animal welfare would be eliminated if rules were to be removed. The farmer will benefit most if his cow is well or with his pig in the stable. I do not know if Mrs Thieme has ever been in a stable, but if a milk cow is ill, she will really produce less milk. If a pig is sick, it will really produce less. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u79	That's why you see that most cows don't get older than three years these days. Then they'll be written off and then a new cow will come because they've been milked like this. However, it is still a question of how the Dutch consumer can really influence the system if 70% of what farmers produce goes abroad. I want to hear a clear answer to that. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u80	My answer is two-part. The Dutch consumer is in favour of what he buys in the Dutch supermarket. As far as exports are concerned, it is not for nothing that China buys the milk powder, the baby powder. Why? Because of the high quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mrs Lodders makes a warm plea for ever fewer rules. I am not going to defend every rule and every detail of rules here, because I sometimes see examples that amaze me. The essence of the necessary rules for agriculture is, of course, the burden on the environment. This is about nitrogen and phosphate, about the essential rules that ensure that there are limits to the quantity of animals and so on. Is Mrs Lodder seriously of the opinion that we can just let go of those rules? This means that social costs are ultimately passed on to all of us, i.e. to taxpayers. Does Mrs Lodder want to take care of the consequence that we simply abolish nature in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u82	No, we do not abolish nature in the Netherlands. We are not abolishing environmental concerns. The Dutch farmers are leading the way in innovation. I keep repeating that, because I see what the Dutch farmer is capable of. Mr Grashoff and his party must also welcome this. Phosphate can be extracted from manure. The use of fertilizers can actually be reduced completely if European rules allow this to happen in the Netherlands. It's better for the environment. It is better to reduce the use of fertilizers. I would like to say once again that the Netherlands, in industrial terms, has the greatest use of natural gas. That should be embraced by Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u83	On this fantastic innovation capacity of the sector, I dare say that most of the innovation in agriculture has come from regulatory pressure. This often involved environmental regulation, from the air washer or not loved to methods, which may eventually become interesting, to extract phosphate from manure. All this is actually driven by rules, by limitations imposed on agriculture. If you take that away, that innovation will be completely gone. Then we will continue to produce more and more large-scale in an old-fashioned way. As a result, Mrs Dik explained that the price of pigs in the pig cycle has just sunk so deeply that these farms will eventually fall. It is not the environmental rules that stand in the way of pig farmers, but it is the policy of Mrs Lodders and her VVD that the pig farmers ultimately turn their backs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u84	That's bullshit. I would like to invite Mr Grashoff to visit a number of companies, the ones Mr Geurts is talking about. These are family businesses that have been transferred from father to daughter or father to son for decades. These people do care for the environment, because they want future generations to be able to earn a living.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u85	What I hear from Mrs Lodder is that the CAP and the rules must be removed and that we must give businessmen and consumers a wide range of jobs. That would lead the price. This means that our eggs from Barneveld are exported to Germany and so is the beautiful meat from our meat cows, while we get the eggs from Ukraine and the meat from Argentina. Greetings for our farmers, but where are they? They're underwater. They can barely keep their heads above water. Mrs Lodders speaks warmly about family businesses, but they are all going to die because of the policy that the VVD is pursuing here, where really only the cost is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u86	How should I describe it? In all the interruptions I am accused of saying that there should be room for entrepreneurs. However, the same parties, and also Mrs Dik-Faber's Christian Union, impose rules on the Dutch farmer and gardener. These are rules that make production more expensive and more expensive, such as the ban on a certain type of cage eggs here in the Netherlands. Entrepreneurs then cross the border to produce there, and we shouldn't want to do that with each other. So let us see what is happening in Europe and at least apply the rules at the same level so that there is room for those entrepreneurs to earn a good living here. That, however, starts, I say in the direction of Mrs Dik-Faber, by being very critical of all those rules that are passed over and over again with motions, as happens here every Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u87	I have not heard an answer to my question at all. I see that our Dutch farmers and growers are barely able to survive through an international market in which costs are leading. That was used by the VVD's policy. The CAP can be used to repair it. We must be much more proud of our own farmers and growers in the Netherlands and we must consume our own products instead of getting them from Ukraine or Argentina. But I don't hear the VVD about that at all, it's just: open market, international liberalisation. Those who go over the top are our farmers and gardeners. And that has nothing to do with laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mrs Dik-Faber herself gives the answer. The cost is leading, indeed, but that pig farmer about whom Mrs Dik-Faber is talking needs a 25% larger stable here in the Netherlands and his colleague just across the border can suffice with a 25% smaller stable and therefore with a lower cost. So it will all have to be paid in the price. So I hope we can find each other at that point. I will challenge Mrs Dik-Faber by means of a motion, assuming that she also supports that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u89	I now hear Mrs Lodder say a few times that some parties, including my party and myself personally, have established rules. And that's right. When it comes to animal welfare and animal suffering, we also want rules to be laid down. I've never spoken to a farmer that I shouldn't have. The Chinese are breaking heads to get our dairy products. In Germany they smash their heads in to get our cheese and our milk products. So in particular because of that we have become a kind of Swiss watch within the agricultural sector. That's what I wanted to say. With this story I also addressed the LLTB year symposium. I was well received there and I received compliments from a lot of people after I spoke there. It is precisely the VVD that has always supported the regulations imposed by the European Union. I call Natura 2000 and the air scrubbers. There's never been any action against that. That's the neckbeat. The farmers are all in agreement with the animal welfare rules, because they want to be and remain the best farmers in the world. As a result, their products are also worth more abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u90	I hear a number of questions and comments from Mr Graus. It is crazy, but these farmers do approach me about the different rules we lay down in the Netherlands, which are stricter than the rules in Europe. Those farmers are bothered by that. Farmers don't mind when they produce at the same level, but it really happens to a pig farmer in Limburg, close to the border, that he doesn't have to meet higher requirements than a farmer in Germany and that a farmer in Germany can produce at a much lower cost than a farmer in the Netherlands. That is what Mr Graus should be talking about. The difference in social requirements has already risen to €0.19 per kilogram weight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u91	I'll come back after all. People pay a lot of money for Swiss watches because of their quality, as well as for German cars. That is how we have it with our agricultural sector. Our farmers deliver the best products and they're at the forefront of the world. Logically, they want to keep doing that. We sometimes impose something on them that guarantees animal welfare and reduces the number of products that are very easy to eat. It turns out that people, also abroad, are willing to pay more for that. That's gonna be more and more. Watch me! It is precisely the regulations that have helped make the VVD possible, such as Natura 2000 and all that Brussels nonsense of bureaucrats who have never been to a farm with us: that is the neck blow. And the air scrubbers, and all that nonsense, and the manure policy: that's the neckbeat. With the few rules we have put on it, we have only helped the farmers for the future. Watch me!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u92	I come at the end of my speech to talk about Natura 2000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u93	May I approach matter in a slightly different way? It is about the relationship between agriculture and nature. Mrs Lodders certainly knows CLM's research, in which the economic value of bees is estimated: 700 million per year. Fruit and vegetables are highly dependent on this. Does Mrs Lodders, with the VVD, recognise this special relationship, or nature, as a condition for the agricultural sector to be able to produce?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u95	In view of the results of various studies carried out over the past six months, I would mention just the State of Nature, which means that the protection of nature, precisely because of the economic value of nature, must be given priority in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u96	Not on the basis of the examples mentioned by Mr Leenders. I would like to make a small leap towards plant protection products. We also took a number of decisions on this matter last Tuesday. You see a European authority that approves a means and a Dutch authority that approves a means: however, you do not have to take decisions on the basis of emotion, because that too has adverse consequences for nature. It doesn't help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u97	We in Europe have a ban on battery eggs; by now all farmers in the Netherlands have been switched. In the poultry sector there is more work on corporate social responsibility. How does Mrs Lodder explain to poultry farmers in the Netherlands that her party voted in favour of the association agreement with Ukraine, which states that laying battery eggs from Ukraine can enter the Dutch market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u98	I always start by saying that it is a mistake of the Dutch government to ban such systems here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u99	So I hear a plea for reintroducing the battery egg? I believe that Mrs Lodders is very alone in that. I ask her once again: if we have animal welfare rules and the VVD then opens up the market for products that do not comply with our animal welfare rules, is it still trying to destroy our poultry farming? Or am I crazy now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u100	No, the wish may be the father of the thought of Mrs Thieme, but that is not the case. The treaty with Ukraine, and also with all kinds of other treaties, offers more opportunities and more opportunities for entrepreneurs. That's what we need most. Mrs Thieme wants those specific eggs from the shelves, but at the same time we can see that the supermarkets still sell those egg products, but not so much as egg, but in all kinds of baking flour, cake flour and pancake mix. The consumer therefore did not make that choice. Let us not now decide what the consumer ultimately buys in the supermarket or has in the refrigerator. That's what the consumer is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u101	The VVD stipulates that laying battery eggs from Ukraine come on the market here. That's up to the VVD. What does that mean for that poultry farmer here in the Netherlands who sells wild eggs or organic eggs? That means end of story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u102	No, because we have a lot of eggs in the shelves. As long as a supermarket also offers that type of egg to the consumer and the consumer buys that type of product, that is what we are talking about!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mrs Lodders continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u104	I had stuck to the fact that innovations are frustrated by Brussels policy. I would like to mention the example of cow and pig manure. I have also mentioned this example in an interrupting debate. This manure is still being disposed of as a major problem, while Dutch farmers are able to extract phosphate from manure. I would also like to mention the mineral concentrate which can replace expensive fertilizer. These are examples of innovations that are prohibited by regulation. We will soon have the debate on manure and phosphates together, but here too, as far as the VVD is concerned, let go of old rules and dare to look at innovations with an open and progressive look. Another aspect of the common agricultural policy is rural policy. Europe, and with it the taxpayer, does not have to pay for the farm spa, a barefoot path or a squash court. Let's please stop this! In 2017, the review of the current agricultural policy will take place, followed by negotiations for the period 2020-2026. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the preparations for the review will take place and is he prepared to inform the Chamber about the route chosen by the Netherlands and how the Chamber and the sector will be involved in the implementation? There is also work to be done in the Netherlands. The current Ministry of Economic Affairs should be the Ministry of Innovation and Future, a Ministry where regulation is not a means in itself, but a focus on achieving a long-term goal, namely an innovative, competitive and export-oriented agriculture. This is not just about bulk, but also about all the niche products we have here in the Netherlands. It must be a ministry where people are at least trying to come up with new laws and rules and maximise the drive for innovation, space for new technologies and the promotion of new markets and products. This cabinet has the objective to cover the cost of regulatory pressure of 2.5 billion. to be reduced. The agro-industry is one of the sectors with particular attention. The Minister for Economic Affairs keeps a good overview. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State if he knows what the meter is like right now. How does he look at this agreement in the coalition agreement and its impact so far? I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at the increase in the burden on the sectors and what steps he will take to achieve this agreement also for the agro-industry. In any case, I would like to announce that, at the beginning of next year, I will come forward with an initiative to take steps to reduce the regulatory burden. The regulation and left-wing fear of progress are holding back developments such as biotechnology, the use of genetically modified organisms and their knowledge. For example, ten years of work has been done on a potato that is resistant to potato disease phytophtora, but because the application is not allowed in the Netherlands, we are about to refer ten years of knowledge and innovation to the wastebasket, while this potato saves the environment and the wallet. How does the Secretary of State view these developments? Does he share the VVD's view that knowledge is needed to assess what is happening elsewhere in the world? Does he share the view that this knowledge is also necessary in order to assess whether our food is safe? Can the Secretary of State state state what his agenda is on this point? Next week, the Chamber will be talking about the NVWA, but I cannot help saying something about this organisation, and in particular about its functioning. In the past period I have asked a lot of questions, including about not wanting to approve on Sundays and not wanting to issue certificates on weekends. I also asked a question about an A.E.C. who was getting laid, had 200 people waiting, and then had the account placed with the entrepreneur. Furthermore, I mention it on the website that the NVWA will not explain to a sector the interpretation of rules and the way in which controls are carried out. The NVWA seems to be a club that hates entrepreneurs. That is a bad picture, actually a very bad picture, for the NVWA itself, but also for the government. I am therefore very pleased with the research announced by the Secretary of State, in which he has the NVWA vetted for efficiency and ICT and re-evaluated supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u105	Those are good things. The NVWA must be customer-friendly and if it can be more efficient, it must be done. At the same time, we read in the letter that this is all difficult. One thing I think is clear: if we look at what we expect from the NVWA, we can see that there is a huge gap between the ambition we have and the budget we provide. How does Mrs Lodder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u106	I'm glad the surveillance will be reviewed. Over the past one and a half to two years, I have regularly seen decisions taken here which we are putting in place at NVWA without a budget or a review of tasks. As far as I am concerned, that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u107	But the Secretary of State's letter basically contains two tracks. On the one hand, it needs to be more efficient and on the other hand it needs to be recalibrated. However, if we also look at the third track, which is what we socially expect from good controls, which are important for everyone, then we can see that the NVWA does not meet the current budget. Is the VVD also ensuring that, if we do that recalibrate and follow the efficient track, we reward the good behavior of the NVWA, that we ensure that the checks can be carried out properly and that budget is added if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u108	I haven't gotten there yet. I'm not gonna say that today either. I'll explain why. The moment we do that, the stimulus is gone. Last Tuesday, we took the decision to ban the use of arthropods by private individuals. The NVWA needs to maintain that. However, it is not enforceable. I don't know how we're gonna do that. There are a lot of examples, for example. I had intended to ask a set of written questions every week about NVWA, but after this letter I will be very cautious and modest, hoping that we can see how it can be done more efficiently and how we can re-assess our ambition in terms of approval and supervision. Whatever private can do, we should also do it privately. Whether you produce a piece of meat or a toy bear, as an entrepreneur you are responsible for the quality of the product. We don't need NVWA to check that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u109	Do I understand now that the VVD believes that the rates for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands should go down for inspection and supervision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u110	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u111	If the VVD responds with'sure', what initiative does Mrs Lodder come with today to actually bring down the rates for entrepreneurs? We have tried to do this in the past with a few other parties, but that was not supported by the VVD. I see an opening now, so I am very curious to see what initiative the VVD is developing on this issue today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u112	We don't. We will have the substantive debate next week. I have said that I would like to dwell on this today because I am very pleased with the step taken by the Secretary of State to monitor efficiency and ICT at NVWA. In the past, we have imposed a number of savings on NVWA. They didn't make it. I want to know why they weren't made. We didn't just do that. I believe that Mr Geurts' party was also involved in this. We will first have to make that clear and then we will take the next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mrs Lodders says that the NVWA gives the impression that it does not like the sector and is hostile to the sector. We received a report from the NVWA's Risk Assessment Office containing 57 risks and problems in the red meat chain in the field of animal welfare and food safety. Does Mrs. Lodder say that bullying is also a sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u114	If we set rules with each other, regardless of whether you agree or not, then we must control and enforce them. That control is carried out by the entrepreneur and enforcement is carried out by an authority that we have before, namely the Dutch Food and Waring Authority. This must be done as efficiently and as cheaply as possible, for the public authorities but certainly also for the business community. This responsibility lies with the Secretary of State as primary responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u115	If it is concluded by the NVWA agency that it is dramatic that the rules are being complied with and that it is also dramatic with the morale of the sector, as the director of the NVWA has also indicated in various interviews, then it is also logical that this cabinet, like more and more people in this room, says that the business should go along with the checks and that the budget of the NVWA should go up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u116	No, that's what I'm trying to explain. An organisation will have to be organised efficiently and carry out the checks as efficiently as possible for which it is responsible. So the control lies with the business community and the inspection and enforcement are with the NVWA. This must be done as cheaply and as efficiently as possible. We are not in favour of putting that account in the hands of the business community.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mrs. Lodders is moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u118	The research will have to be in-depth, down to the organization's capillaries. From the office in Utrecht to the workplace where the checks are carried out, with one aim: to control the costs for the government, but certainly also for the business community. The rates are very high compared to the countries around us. Something must be done about that quickly. We will discuss this in greater detail next week. The greenhouse horticulture in the Netherlands is an example of how traditional knowledge and craftsmanship, based on high-tech solutions, leads to an internationally competitive sector. The way Dutch growers grow tomatoes, peppers and flowers is an example for many foreign entrepreneurs. Through solutions developed in the Netherlands, horticulture is still becoming more sustainable. Less water use, less energy consumption and higher yield. But the ambition continues, and especially in the field of energy saving, there is still much to gain in the coming years. For 2016 money has been made available to guarantee the use of geothermal energy. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many new projects are expected and how he will encourage growers to find their way to this fund? The Dutch fishing industry is to be praised for its innovative strength, despite all the rules that are fired at it from Europe and the Dutch government. New fishing techniques are being introduced and successfully introduced. Currently, 900,000 tonnes of plaice are swimming in the North Sea. That is four times as much as in 2000, but also with the scarf, the tongue and the herring it goes well, despite the fact that Greenpeace makes something else believe. But the fishing industry too has to do with a totally out of control. Take the landing obligation, made up to visualize the bycatch. But a landing obligation, as often with rules devised behind a desk, has a damaging effect on ecology. By-catch is a source of food for birds and fish when discarded, and young fish in the by-catch have a high chance of survival. The landing obligation is also an administrative burden for the fisherman. Can the Secretary of State also respond to this sector in a more practical way? Another cost will be the compulsory numbing of fish at sea. By means of a device, plaice, herring or other fish must be sedated or intoxicated. This is really weird. It's going to give the fisherman extra man hours and costs. Does the Secretary of State now seriously believe that this type of regulation should be a priority? The fishermen from the United Kingdom can sail and fish within the wind farms at sea. The Netherlands would not be the Netherlands if it did not come up with additional rules. You can already guess, Mr President, the Dutch fishing fleet has to sail around the parks, which costs a lot of extra nautical miles, in distance and in fuel. The Secretary of State has indicated that he is in agreement on co-use by fishing and that he wants to start pilots for ships up to 24 metres in 2017. Why is it taking so long and what is the justification that other Member States can do this but not Dutch fishermen? And why the proposed restrictions? Now, nature. Nature management is decentralised to the provinces. Not so long ago, this Chamber talked extensively about nature policy and the new Nature Act. Policy and implementation are getting close to people. This means that the House of Representatives no longer deals with many issues. Next year, the VVD will focus on the REFIT of the Birds and Habitats Directives. The VVD considers it necessary to introduce greater flexibility in species protection. Why should we protect an animal or plant, which is in large numbers elsewhere in Europe, in another country with very high costs and sometimes pointless measures? Furthermore, the VVD will come forward with proposals to eliminate the border effects of Natura 2000 sites. In the Netherlands much less is allowed than in Germany or Belgium. The different approaches need to be put an end to them. We can do this through the interpretation of the regulation as it has been established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u119	I note that we are already ready for the 25th interruption and we are only at the second speaker. I give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, but I do call on colleagues to do some self-reflection. The speaker may sometimes be a little less challenging in her choice of words. Mr Wassenberg has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The 25th interruption, but only my first. Mrs Lodders wonders why you would protect species that also occur in other places in Europe, but we are talking about the ecosystem and nature here. The animal and plant species that are present here are part of the ecosystem. The moment you take animals or plants out of there, that could mean that the ecosystem is going down here. Why would it benefit the ecosystem in the Netherlands if certain animal species are still present elsewhere in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u121	Because we in the Netherlands sometimes have to take ridicule measures to bring back something that might have occurred in our nature thousands of years ago, and not anymore. Another example: the tie. In Brabant a lot of millions have been invested to keep the tie, but seven kilometres across the border is an animal that is huntable. You need to balance that. That's what the VVD wants to look for. The Secretary of State starts his term at a good time, the start of a new financial year. There are many opportunities and challenges. I hope that this Secretary of State with the VVD will give space to this beautiful sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u122	I believe the 26th and 27th Interrupts are coming. I call Mrs Dik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u123	I have listened carefully to the story of the VVD, but I have heard little about the system of phosphate rights and the future of dairy farming. Because the VVD did not want to clarify this a year ago, we adopted an empty Milk Cattle Act. Then an AMvB and manure legislation followed. There is now a build-up of regulation, because the VVD Group did not want to get over it a year ago. The dairy farmers are sitting with their hands in their hair. What can they count on when it comes to the fraction of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mrs Dik talks about the Responsible Growth Act for Dairy Farming. That law doesn't control phosphate production.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mrs Lodders may say that, but last year we talked three times about legislation relating to the future of dairy farming. Three times we have been unable to give direction to dairy farming, because there is still no clarity on the system of phosphate rights, thanks to the VVD Group. Last week we had a group of young farmers on the table. They sit with their hands in their hair and ask for clarity. When is the VVD Group going to clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u126	I'm sitting around the table with the same young farmers. They're asking me for clarity, too. We can make that clear if we decide today to turn to phosphate rights, but neither do those farmers. Their burdens will then go up and then they will face a huge challenge. That is what I was talking about at the beginning of my speech and in the interruptions: there is an enormous increase in the burden and it is not up to the farmers to deal with it. So we have to deal with it responsibly. The debate on this subject, after two technical briefings, will continue in this Chamber. That sounds good to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mrs Lodder's plea for a re-evaluation of the Birds and Habitats Directive indicated that we should be less precise in terms of species that exist elsewhere, while we are trying very hard to protect them. That sounds so logical, there is one last bat somewhere, and we are going to have a hard time about that, but does Mrs Lodder agree with me that, if you were to pursue that reasoning, perhaps it would be wise to increase the effectiveness of the protective operation of the Birds and Habitats Directives heavily in relation to the real environmental problems, such as the imminent extinction of our pastures? Could it be that I can find the VVD by my side if we adopt much tighter rules on environmental protection, so that this can no longer happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u128	Now Mr Grashoff is going to challenge me. At the time when we are going to talk about the pastures, I agree with Mr Grashoff that we should first make it clear that this meadow bird is actually deteriorating. There are fewer meadow birds, but on the other hand, the number of birds of prey consuming the meadow birds has increased enormously. We also have a number of other predators that reduce the number of meadow birds. If we want to deal with each other, that whole range, we'll find each other. But I do not think that Mr Grashoff agrees with me that we should consider whether we should do something about other wild species in order to protect the meadow bird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u129	I understand that the solution of the VVD is that, if one species falls very much, then you bring all the other species that depend on it in the food chain, to the same level, preferably with the gun, I think. That is the best solution to bring our nature back into balance. But that wasn't my question. I think it is a bizarre approach to the VVD. If, on the one hand, there is an environmental law which appears to have an unbalanced effect on less important species, on the other hand, should the same environmental law not have a very large impact on the essential species, for which we have an important and unique responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u130	As far as the meadow bird is concerned, Mr Grashoff is twisting my words. At the moment you want to balance nature, you have to make sure that you look at the wide range. Then you need to find out what's going on in nature, if you want to fix it already. Sometimes you have to accept certain things as they are. You will have the debate on the protection of species with my colleague Rudmer Heerema a number of times in the coming period. What we do not want is a plant that likes wet feet and a plant that likes dry feet in the same Natura 2000 area. It's not the same thing. I do not need to explain that to Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mrs Lodders said that for the time being she is not prepared to make an effort with her group to make extra money available to the NVWA. Would Mrs Lodders be willing to support what I said earlier, namely: let the animal police deal with animal suffering and let the NVWA deal with all these food scandals? Let those 180 animal police officers out there now become full-timers instead of part-timers. It's all for the benefit of the NVWA. Is it possible that Mrs Lodders, within her party and with colleagues from Security and Justice, insists that the NVWAs and animal police officers, who have to check shadowy vans from the Eastern bloc, get heat cameras? Saves a lot of man hours. Then they can also deal with other scandals. It only costs a few hundred euros, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u132	That seems to me to be a splendid motion that Mr Graus can table in a debate on Security and Justice. He may do it here too, but I do not think this Secretary of State is about the installation of heat lamps in Eastern European cars. That is what I heard Mr Graus say. As far as NVWA is concerned, Mr Graus is actually putting the sector down with as many words as big food fraudsters. My party really goes too far many times. We fraudsters must be tough on us, but we must also have confidence in a lot of entrepreneurs who are fortunately doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u133	Madam President, what Mrs Lodder says is really wrong. After all, here sits the fresh boss of the NVWA, also the shepherd of the animals. This is the Secretary of State for Animal Welfare, and that is what this is about. I really don't need to be with Security and Justice, I need to be with this Secretary of State and this committee. These heat cameras are to be provided by this Secretary of State, possibly under pressure, including the VVD. That's what I'm asking for. Then we can intercept those East Block transports of deadly puppies earlier and throw those people in jail. That's what this is about. Make sure those people get those heat cameras. Mrs. Lodders can just say yes to that, can't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u134	No, I'm not saying yes to that, because I don't know what the motion looks like. I assume that I will have Mr Graus' motion on my own in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. Saving the cabinet does in recent weeks; not itself but miles. Much is being flown back and forth in preparation for the European Presidency. For example, the current Secretary of State in South Africa and the previous Secretary of State in Austria. In a Viennese park she made a video message for Dutch farmers and gardeners. This image of a secretary of state in a Viennese city park, a hollow tree in the background, who speaks to the Dutch farmers and horticulturalists and says that she is working hard for them to reduce the pressure on regulations, is, in my view, a symbol of this cabinet. Abroad tell us how good our farmers, gardeners and fishermen are, but increase the multitude of rules here. The combined task is more complex than ever. It seems that a farmer will have to ask his accountant first if he can go milking or go on his country. How is this Secretary of State going to reduce the regulatory burden? The new Secretary of State recently gave a speech in the context of the 100th anniversary of the magazine Boerderij. He talked about the distance that seems to have grown between our food and its origin, but also about the fact that the road between ground and our mouths has grown enormously longer. All fine words, but the problems experienced by our farmers, growers and fishermen every day are not reduced. When will the Secretary of State, for example, make it possible to carry out stable inspections in pig farming again, really smooth out the young farmers' scheme, allow equivalent measures for fertilising, present sustainability schemes for calf farming and issue liaison statements for the financing of collective research and innovation? All things that have been promised in the past, but have not been carried out. Indeed, there are enough concerns on the board of the Secretary of State. Today I will focus on the regulatory pressure, the Marker Wadden and nature and the survival of green education. My final words are about why it should not be unnecessarily difficult for hard-working farmers and gardeners. I'll start with the line pressure. The words of this government are hollow in relation to the reality of Dutch farmers. In the Netherlands, the entrepreneur does not notice that the costs are decreasing. Calling but doing nothing, seems to have become the motto of this VVD/PvdA cabinet. Who's trying to convince the cabinet, himself? At least the entrepreneur doesn't convince it. Hans Biesheuvel of the entrepreneurial organisation Entrepreneurship Netherlands said it heartily: the ambition of less regulatory pressure on companies has completely failed. This cabinet raises the regulatory burden, I refer to manure legislation, animal welfare standards and the tightening up of rules for plant protection products, and is not looking for sufficient space within the Birds and Habitats Directives. Readable is the EPP report Land in the throes of my European colleague Annie Schreijer. The CDA aims to simplify manure legislation, not a accumulation of processing, soil binding and rights as the Secretary of State wishes. It is no longer possible to explain how the Fertilisers Act of references and obligations are linked, let alone how phosphate rights should be applied. As I have already asked in previous debates, it is high time to work towards a better Fertilisers Act. This fits very well in the run-up to the negotiations of the next Nitrates Directive action programme. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether he wishes to come forward with proposals to simplify manure legislation. This proposal must, of course, also maintain the derogation. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if he's prepared to do so. In addition, the CDA Group wants a level playing field at European level, including with regard to animal welfare. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State is making efforts to put interventions, housing and antibiotic use on the European agenda. It is not appropriate to impose new investments on our farmers in these efforts. Together with the processing and retail, Dutch farmers put new products into the market that bring consumers and farmers closer together and have added value for animal welfare and the environment. The farmer can also make a little more money from this if there is no national headline on European legislation. I'm sure chain agreements can help with this. The CDA Group has called for changes to the Competition and Sustainability Policy Rule and for a new analysis of the ACM in relation to the Kip van Morgen. I ask the Secretary of State how the cabinet will ensure that the farmer is rewarded for his efforts. For the sake of a single European market, the burden on our citizens should be reduced. For farmers and gardeners, the burden has increased in recent years, for example by increasing energy taxes and assurance taxes. In addition, the Netherlands is the only country where such towering fees are requested for inspections on agricultural products. Farmers and importers have no influence whatsoever on the costs of these fees, but they are responsible for this. What does the VVD/PvdA cabinet want now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u136	I am extremely pleased that the CDA also has a strong interest in innovation and sustainability and that more needs to be done. Grants from Europe are not directly linked to sustainability or innovation. Does Mr Geurts also argue that this should be part of the EU's common agricultural policy's subsidy policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u137	Like the D66 Group, we consider the European common agricultural policy to be important, but I do not share the observation made by the D66 Group that there is no innovation in the latter policy. I was just talking about this in an interrupting debate with Mrs Lodders from the VVD Group. It's just greening and there are innovations. There is also money in it for the young farmers' scheme, which unfortunately has not yet been put to good use. So I think there are innovations in it, but perhaps the D66 Group can explain which innovations it means more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u138	I didn't say there were no innovations in it. There are innovations, but not enough and sustainability is also a problem. You requested a debate yesterday on the OECD report. It is precisely this that says that much more substantial work should be done. If you want this to be properly regulated for the future, then the subsidy from Europe must be linked to it. Is that a proposal from the CDA or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u139	In all honesty, I find it a little difficult to answer that question, because I don't know what D66 is referring to. If we conclude together that farmers in the Netherlands and also the food industry perform a great performance by producing varied and safe food, we agree. However, if the D66 Group means that this is insufficient and that there is no sustainable production in the Netherlands, I do not agree with that. Dutch farmers and gardeners, but also Dutch fishermen are at the forefront of the world. The cabinet tells this also on all his trade trips. When it comes to the fact that more innovations are allowed, we will soon find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr Geurts does not understand my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u141	No, Mrs Koser Kaya, Mr Dijkgraaf has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr Geurts spoke about the NVWA, high fees and a lack of budget. I agree with all of that. He asks what the government is going to do, but there is actually already a letter showing that the government is not going to do anything on the budget side. How does Mr Geurts feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u143	I'm sorry about that. I have also seen that some money is being added to the NVWA in the autumn papers. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State where that money comes from, because that is not quite clear to me. Anyway, we'll hear that in the answer by the Secretary of State. I am also concerned with the question of how much money the Secretary of State still needs for the NVWA. That will also be my question when I come to the end of my speech on this subject. According to the business community, this is 50 million euros. That's a hell of a lot of money. In practice, I see that the charges for entrepreneurs have increased in recent years, not only in agriculture and horticulture, but also for the processing industry, the port of Rotterdam, Schiphol and shippers. My question now is how we can achieve lower rates in order to restore a level playing field for competition in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u144	I agree that the Navy's note offers some room, but that is, unfortunately, occasional money. That's good for one year, but it's not structural. Does Mr Geurts agree that there should be a structural solution to the budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u145	I certainly agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that a structural solution must be found. In any case, I am in favour of including the burden on entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, not only in agriculture and horticulture but also in the other sectors I mentioned. The continuous increase in the burden on entrepreneurs will not result in the NVWA working more efficiently. I will continue by passing on the costs of NVWA to industry and the competitive position and the related employment offered to us by the Dutch sea and airports. The interpretation of the Maat report on the internalisation of enforcement costs is extended by the year. How can it be explained that on the basis of this report more and more costs are charged? I ask the Secretary of State to consider how the fees can be reduced for the sake of Dutch competitiveness. How much money is needed for this? I would like to look, together with the Secretary of State, at how we can reduce tariffs and strengthen NVWA. Then green school. The agricultural training centres for secondary vocational education seem to be the child of the cabinet. With the coalition agreement, the cabinet in fact deleted all practical lessons for agricultural education from 2016. A majority in this Chamber has recently broken the golden triangle. After the dismantling of the product boards, the VVD/PvdA cabinet breaks down another pillar of our agriculture and horticulture if it implements the motion we discussed earlier. The CDA Group considers this to be very undesirable. Can the Secretary of State indicate if the cabinet is carrying out the motion? I'll continue with the Marker Wadden and nature. Where the cabinet sees the Marker Wadden as a natural prestige project, the CDA Group believes that more can be done here. Renewable fuels are at the heart of the world. Sea farms that grow for biomass are a new trend on large waters. Dutch research institutes are at the forefront of this development. The CDA sees it as an opportunity to support this trend and implement projects like the Marker Wadden. The Marker Wadden will not only restore the nature of Lake Marker, they will also contribute to a transition to a more sustainable energy supply. In Lake Marker, floating systems could be created for the cultivation of reeds. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u146	I shall come back to the previous point, namely the motion tabled on behalf of my group on the transfer of agricultural education to the Ministry of Education. I understand that the CDA Group is making some critical comments on this. Does Mr Geurts agree that the Ministry of EZ did not take good care of agricultural education, for example, by talking year after year about austerity or by capping 2% growth from Wageningen University, which is internationally leading, while growth is much higher? How does the CDA Group feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u147	I agree with Mrs Dik that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not properly provided agricultural education. However, the problem lies more in the coalition agreement in which this has been set out as a policy. It's really not going to help if green education is just transferred to OCW. This will certainly not solve the current shortage of green education. The motion will not achieve that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u148	For the deficit, I should like to refer to the amendment that we have tabled. I hope for the support of the CDA Group. Surely Mr Geurts agrees with me that it is much easier within the budget of OCW to introduce an apprenticeship funding system so that when there is real growth in agricultural education, which can also be financially facilitated? The space is at OCW and not at EZ. I would like to make a link with, for example, education in healthcare. This is also covered by OCW, but you can see that in healthcare training, hospitals and entrepreneurs work together perfectly. That shouldn't be a hindrance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u149	I see two elements in this interruption. Mrs Dik asks whether we are going to support the Christian Union amendment. It's the way it looks now, isn't it? We ourselves have an alternative that we believe is more feasible in this Chamber than the Christian Union's proposal. I know about animal care, but care in the human sector is a little less. However, Mrs Dik is a spokesperson on this dossier and I am therefore right in following her. I see that agricultural education, green education, is falling short in the world at the moment when it is being thrown at other educational institutions. What makes us so powerful is that we have the triangle of education, business and government. That is what the Netherlands sells in the world and we are also known for that. Everyone knows where Wageningen is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mr Geurts continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u151	The CDA has always been committed to the deployment of volunteers in the green. As a result of decentralisation, volunteers and their organisations are not yet able to fit directly into the new policy. It would therefore be a good idea for the Secretary of State and the provinces to work on a transitional arrangement so that the nature policy co-formed by volunteers can continue. We have raised this point several times together with the PvdA Group. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Then I come to summer and winter time. Is the Secretary of State prepared to see if there can be an end to the clock movement? I'm rounding up. Agriculture, horticulture and fisheries are vital. The hard-working women and men in the agricultural sector make food safe and healthy for us. Farmers manage our landscape. They also make an important contribution to our economy. This proved to be the case in recent years of economic crisis. The CDA believes that the agro-industry deserves much more appreciation. Give family farms, young farmers, gardeners and fishermen a fair chance to start a business or continue parental farms. It would adorn the Netherlands if it appreciated its farmers for their work, social policy and government policy. In order to preserve the agricultural sector, farmers, farmers and fishermen must be able to earn a fair living. Our own initiative paper entitled A fair sandwich contributes to this. I wish the Secretary of State much wisdom in his work. In support of this, I would like to hand him the Bosatlas of the food and the book PIG 05049. The last mentioned book shows how indispensable pig farming is for our society. Many families in pig farming are currently having a very difficult time. For them, I ask for special attention from the Secretary of State. The CDA has confidence in people, trust in society and therefore trust in the future. Moreover, the CDA does its work in the conviction that God's creation was given to us to manage her well and better leave her behind for our children and grandchildren. Above all, I wish the Chamber, the Government and the officials God's blessing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u152	I'm a little messed up. Do I hear that Mr Geurts is in favour of abolishing summer time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u154	What kind of problems do we solve with that? Aren't we facing bigger problems, opportunities and challenges in the world and in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u155	There must be a lot of big problems. This is one of them. In practice, we see that moving time confuses the biological clock in our society. My colleague Annie Schreijer was the first to suggest this. Various polls have been held in the Netherlands. 60% of our society agrees. Little kids are confused for a couple of days because of this. I mentioned this to get support for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u156	I don't hear what problem we're solving, but I'm gonna chew on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u157	That would be one line less. Perhaps that's the solution. Mrs Lodders should agree with that. I'll come back to the innovations. We think that farmers and family businesses in the Netherlands are very important, but that's what they think in China. People love it when family businesses produce as clean and sustainable as possible. The point is that Mr Geurts then stops saying that it is good the way we do it. I say that there must be a headline on sustainability and innovation. Subsidies should also be used more specifically for this purpose. Does Mr Geurts agree with me? If so, should this also apply at European level and, therefore, to the other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u158	For the CDA, it is about the farmers and gardeners, those family farms, getting a good income in the Netherlands. We are now ahead of the world on many fronts. If you go back to European regulation, it will not make the innovations any better. The same applies to the earning model. This brings me back to the innovations. You will find us on your side if things can be improved and farmers and gardeners can make money from it. Innovation in itself is not the goal. The goal is that there will simply be a good income for our agriculture and horticulture. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u159	I was with Piet Boer last Friday. He indicated that one can earn a better living if there is much more innovation and one can use cheaper innovations in the company. You revolve around the hot stuff every time. You'll have to make a choice. If we think this is important and if we want the Netherlands to be the frontrunner, we must also ensure at European level that agricultural subsidies are targeted on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u160	The income support is already used by farmers, and in this case by dairy farming. Where in the world are machines like the milking robot developed? This has happened in the Netherlands. That's just an innovation. Dairy farming can make money from that. This has improved the social conditions of the farmer. You can continue to drive innovations, but I do wonder which one. The Netherlands is already leading innovation. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u161	I'd like to come back to the rule book. It is good to note that the regulatory burden in the sector is high. I agree with Mr Geurts and others. It's hard to analyze why it is. I believe that a lot of environmental rules have to do with the fact that we have run into borders in our agricultural sector, especially in animal husbandry. Does Mr Geurts agree with me? As these boundaries become more tense, we need more, more detailed, more precise and more complex regulation to control all of this. Does Mr Geurts agree with me that a much simpler approach to more stringent land-based farming could be a way of seriously reducing a great deal of complex regulation, for example on nitrogen, phosphates and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u162	When I listen to my colleague Grashoff van GroenLinks that way, that sounds quite sympathetic in itself. I do have a question about the details, because I haven't quite figured them out yet. Basically, it sounds nice to make regulation simpler, but if that means that entrepreneurs have to invest even more than they already have to do in the Netherlands, even on top of European requirements, then Mr Grashoff will not find me on his side. However, if this makes the rules simpler and a farmer, a gardener and a fisherman can do their business with it more easily, then we can probably find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u163	That sounds like an opening to move on. I believe that we will continue to have a great many differences of opinion on this subject, but I find it interesting. I would very much like us to explore with each other how we can achieve less and simpler rules in the agricultural sector, which are nevertheless effective and take better account of the boundaries of society and the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u164	Mr President, that is a final conclusion. I do not see any question in that and I have little to add to what I have said. Maybe we should talk about that bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u165	I agree with Mr Geurts that there should be a better income model for farmers. I wonder if he doesn't see what the idea of forcing supermarkets to prove that everything they buy is also cost-effective. It is therefore a question of showing that the farmer was able to do it. You will not get a system of minimum prices, which we should all not want, but a nice competitive model in which there is transparency about costs within that free market. At the same time, it is possible to compete for quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u166	In January 2013, I tabled a motion, together with Mr Dijkgraaf, on this point, on the tension between the consumer price and the cost price. The motion also called for monitoring its progress. The Party for Animals supported that motion, but the VVD, PvdA, D66 and 50PLUS did not and thus did not achieve a majority. So I am very interested in the precise text of Mrs Thieme's motion, but we already had the one in January 2013 and it did not reach a majority in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u167	Sure. It is also very good to hear that from the Labour Party, for example, there is more and more attention being paid to the fact that we have to get rid of the kilo-bulls and the rat race to the bottom at the prices. I just want to be specific. I have already tabled my proposal before, and I did not know very well what the CDA thought about this. If supermarkets simply have a duty to show that the farmer has been able to do it, then we have tackled the retail at least once, because it has a great purchasing power. I think that we can take a big step towards a better income model for farmers. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u168	That sounds so sympathetic, but we know that there are a lot of rules and heavy burdens in the implementation. I think the Geurts/Dijkgraaf motion asked for something much more important. This motion also asked the government to encourage entrepreneurs to use entrepreneurial space to determine the cost. This means cooperation in the sector. It also means that much more scope is given to the Authority's Consumer & Market and to cases such as competition. If Mrs Thieme's proposal leads to a great deal of administrative burdens being involved, this is how that proposal is coming to me a little bit now, then I would be a little more reluctant, because I would regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u169	I hope that Mrs Thieme will not now table another motion on administrative burdens, when a motion from me has long been adopted on this matter. That's what the Party for Animals has done in the barn fires before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u170	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u171	No, this is just as important, because Mr Geurts does not raise this point either. There is an adopted motion by Mr Graus asking for a better income model. Secretary of State Dijksma was working on this and this Secretary of State is going to take over. So we're already working on it. This is work in progress. I do not know what this is about, but this is already being done, and let us now focus on things that are important at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u172	I have a point of order. Of course, motions have been tabled asking for a better income model. These are submitted by many parties. It's about what kind of model that is. I have a point on which Mr Graus has not yet come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u173	I would nevertheless like to respond to Mr Graus's interruption. We have supported this motion, as have many other parties. He's made it to a majority. I think we should park the specific question with the Secretary of State. What is this cabinet of VVD and PvdA doing with the motion that Mr Graus just mentioned? Mr Graus mentions it more often and every time he is told that the cabinet is working on it or that the motion has already been carried out. Now let the cabinet clarify. Is this motion being carried out? If so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr. Chairman. First of all, we congratulate this Secretary of State on his new position. We wish him a great deal of wisdom in order to face up to the major issues he will face, such as sustainability and forward-looking agriculture. We have every confidence that this Secretary of State will succeed, because I know his great commitment to these issues. I am also very much looking forward to the debates we are going to have with him in the coming period. The issues are there. Last month, the World Wildlife Fund published a report showing a decline in biodiversity in the Netherlands. According to the World Wildlife Fund, intensive livestock farming is responsible for this and it may well be right. There is a dramatic decline in the number of meadow birds and butterflies in rural areas and a decline in nature in dunes and heathlands. These are worrying developments that we need to stop. In addition, Provinceal States of North Brabant announced last month a temporary construction stop for livestock farming as there is no support for even more cattle, for even more pollution and for even less animal welfare. The temporary construction stop pretty much coincided with the finding of the management group Vital pig farming, in which former VVD Minister Rosenthal announced that the future of Dutch pig farming is not in different production but in more production according to this management group. Rosenthal clearly stated that it was best to produce for Asia and Africa and not stare us blind on the European market. It was a statement from someone who stood with his back to society and was blind to the call for sustainability, animal welfare and local production. Not "more" but "other" is the way we need to go: different, sustainable, transparent, with more attention to animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u175	I expected Mrs Dikkers to apologize to livestock first. I read an article this morning in the newspaper in which she is quoted. She said that the animals are kept on their feet with antibiotics. Can she explain what she means by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u176	I'm gonna hit the kilos. Could I perhaps include that question in that? Then I shall also say what I mean by my ruling on antibiotics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u177	I find that a little too easy, because Mrs Dikkers has made the claim that the animals are kept on their feet with antibiotics. I like to hear the way she sees it. I retweeted it this morning from tables by the Foundation for Veterinary Medicinal Products Authority, because investigative journalists went straight on the road when Mrs Dikkers claimed this claim that Mrs Dikkers' claim is incorrect. Apologies for these words from the PvdA Group to pig farming and livestock farming in the broadest sense therefore seem appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u178	Once the antibiotics are banned from intensive livestock farming because the animals are kept in such a way that large-scale use of antibiotics and the drying of cows with antibiotics are no longer necessary, I will be the first to report this here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u179	Do I understand correctly that the PvdA Group is critical of the export of pork to Asia and Africa?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u180	Yes, of course. We believe that we should produce locally, for this market, for the broad European market. We must not feed from the Brabant Peel Asia and Africa. That's really insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u181	I'm glad to hear this. Indeed, exactly a year ago, I tabled a motion on regionalisation of food production during the budget debate to see what steps we can take. By the region, I mean the European market. I asked whether the CAP (common agricultural policy) could be helpful in this. So far I have had no majority, but after this interruption I hope that the motion can still be put to the vote and that the PvdA will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u182	We look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u183	I would like to go on with Mr Geurts' point of view on the use of antibiotics. I think Mrs Dikkers has said some very big words this morning, which are really wronging the sector. On what basis does Mrs Dikkers base her statement that the use of antibiotics in livestock farming is so large?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u184	If we did not have to make plans to reduce the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, we would have no problem. We do have that problem. Plans are being made, steps are being taken, antibiotics have been partially withdrawn, but there are still a lot of illegal antibiotics in circulation. The NVWA rolls up an antibiotic network every now and then. It seems clear to me that a lot of antibiotics are being used in livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u185	The Dutch livestock sector has achieved a 70% reduction in the use of antibiotics in recent years. That is a huge step; it was also necessary. Under the direction of Secretary of State Dijksma I have a look at the current Secretary of State for Health and the Minister of Health this was a great ambition. Mrs. Dikkers tells people something else, puts them on the wrong foot and deceives them. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u186	Antibiotics are still widely used in livestock farming. As soon as the use is back to zero, we are all here at the microphone to compliment livestock farming. The livestock sector is taking a big step, and that is very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u187	Certainly, but in chicken farming, antibiotic use is still incredibly high. Of course that's because the chickens just fall over because they don't like to be in such large numbers in those big chicken stables. What do you see now? As less antibiotics may be used, laboratory stalls are being developed. These are, in fact, hermetically closed stables in which the animals are kept in a completely unnatural way. Is that the future the PvdA says yes to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u188	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u189	So when it comes to subsidising integral sustainable stables, there's no money to go to labs, to those SPF stables? You don't want a grant to go there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u190	I shall come back to that later in my speech. We have a proposal for what to do with the subsidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u191	Honestly, I'm a little surprised about Mrs. Dikkers, because I know her differently. In recent years, we have had many debates on the use of antibiotics in the sector. I agree with Mrs Dikkers that we are not yet where we need to be. But it must also bear in mind that the sector has done a great deal, up to tens of percent less. That should be appreciated, too, shouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u192	I really appreciate that. But in the old days, it was just through the feed. The fact that you're making huge reductions if you take it out of the feed, I get it. However, much remains to be done. Mr Dijkgraaf is of course very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u193	Yes, but we see a sector that invests a lot, has all kinds of plans, takes all kinds of measures, and the PvdA Group simply says: it's shit, it's nothing and it has to be totally different. That's not the way to deal with a sector that's working really hard to minimize antibiotic use, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u194	I greatly appreciate the effort that is being made. Let me put that in front of you. So we don't disagree on that. The only thing we disagree on is that I still think that the use of antibiotics is far too high, that insufficient steps have yet to be taken and that it is still in our food. That's not what we should want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u195	I see Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u196	When I see Mr Graus, I'm always afraid I've missed a motion from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u197	I must congratulate Mrs Dikkers, because she has supported all the motions on reducing the use of antibiotics and the use of herbal preparations. Thank you for that. But I heard her say "zero antibiotics" between the nose and the lips. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u198	No, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u199	Mrs. Dikkers said that, but that's impossible. Animals should be given antibiotics after surgery and intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u200	Of course, this should be done if there are major problems with animals and if animal welfare is compromised. Mr Graus, of course, also agrees with us that the farming systems are currently designed so that they are very susceptible to all kinds of infections, which means that you have to use a lot more antibiotics than you really want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u201	Okay, you're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u202	The intensive livestock farming is growing and the application for large stables is a trend that is visible throughout the Netherlands. Brabant had to take his own emergency measures because national legislation was not enough. Has the Secretary of State also taken note of these measures? How does he feel about that? Is it possible to apply these measures widely in the Netherlands? We are here today for the budget of EZ. This budget shows that money is being released again to support the agricultural sector. This Secretary of State is about to bring about a historic revolution by adapting the grant to the requirements of this time. We give millions of grants through an SDE+ scheme, for example, to run a factory in Moerdijk that helps chicken farmers get rid of their manure. The same chickens as the one used for the manure in Moerdijk are in stables built with a different subsidy scheme. A stable, in which more than a third of the chickens suffer from severe burns on the legs, the sole lesions. They suffer because they have to stand in their own poop for far too long. The fact that we have created both the SDE+ scheme and the stable subsidy system means that you have a system that has been made possible by the Dutch taxpayer. This Secretary of State can bring about a historic revolution by making the tax arrangements contained in instruments such as the Sustainable Farming Maatlat truly future-proof. Due to the Model Sustainable Farming we make it possible to build stables where cows can no longer go outside and so they are inside for years. This is made possible with the support of the Dutch taxpayer. This is not the way to build for the future and farmers are always lagging behind the demands of the market. That market requires pasture milk and more sustainability requirements. However, this size bar no longer meets the requirements of the consumer. I hear from the sector that citizens have to pay for more animal welfare. Mrs. Lodders brought that up today. Yes, at your service, the citizen is already paying for the current mode of production and the citizen has indicated that he no longer wants to do so. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the guarantee schemes do not amount to a small amount of more than EUR 80 million, which is exclusively devoted to stables that have at least the 1 star better life mark of the Animal Protection. More animal welfare has the future; we should not continue on the current road. It is impossible for pigs to bite off the tail of other pigs, even in a barn subsidised by the Dutch citizens. This is made possible by the Dutch taxpayer! In its response to the WRR's report on food provocative things, the cabinet says, for example, about a shift from the sustainability focus on the primary sector to a sustainability focus on the whole chain, from farmer to kitchen. We very much welcome that. We can see that the primary sector is taking various initiatives for farmers, such as the Vair Varkenhuis. There are many farmers who are trying to earn a better sandwich in the chain. Stunting with meat turns its back on those kinds of initiatives. We call on the Secretary of State to come up with measures that make it impossible to sell meat below cost. For inspiration, the Secretary of State may turn to the Germans who have a general ban on the sale of meat below cost. I also call the Austrians, the French and the Belgians who have a partial ban. Half of the EU is now active on this dossier. We call on the Secretary of State to intervene in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u203	I see Mr Houwers is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u204	We often do that in dialect, in the back of the benches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u205	We could have, but we don't do that in this place for a while. I think it would be better for others to follow. Mrs. Dikkers is talking about a cost. But that cost can be different for any company. Why does it want to intervene in this way at a cost? Why isn't that something from the producer and why shouldn't that just be determined in the market? What's with the meddling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u206	I know what the colleague means. In Germany and Austria they are experimenting with a price that is in balance and does justice to the farmer. I cannot determine it from this chair, but I can imagine that the Secretary of State will consult with other countries on this matter and will come to a balanced price in consultation with his officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u207	What Mrs Dikkers is doing is showing off an entire sector, using big words but actually making nothing concrete. What lingers is "we're going to do something about that cost, we want something," but it's not being made concrete. I read on Twitter and in the newspaper that Mrs Dikkers wants to do something about animal welfare. Then it's one of two. Whether the meat was produced according to the rules. Then it can simply be placed on the market and then the market determines the price. Or the meat wasn't produced according to the rules. Then we must intervene, then we must act against it and maintain it. So it's two-and-a-half. Why does Mrs Dikkers also want to intervene in this well-produced meat? I don't understand. This does not do justice to animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u208	Because supermarkets are so stunted with meat, there is a huge pressure on the way the farmer produces. It has to produce cheap, cheaper, cheapest. Twenty years ago the price was still reasonable, nowadays a farmer gets €1,10, €1,20 and sometimes €1,30 for a kilo of slaughtered pig and €0,90 for a kilo of slaughtered chickens. Those are incredibly low prices. The supermarkets lure people in with very cheap, under-priced meat. The meat is not sold at a real price. I would very much like all those animals to live in better conditions. We have indicated the price at which a piece of meat should be sold and have put a basis on the market. However, that is what the supermarkets are always putting underneath. When I enter the Albert Heijn, I can buy an apple and an egg a piece of meat. And that doesn't make the farmer any money at all. It doesn't make anyone any better. Except for the supermarket!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mrs. Dikkers must speak clearly now. Is it going for a minimum cost, is it going for a minimum selling price? How does she explain that in relation to what I just heard her say about extra demands on the stable, about at least one stable with one star? Is that all included in that cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u210	What we want is a ban on stunting meat. We shall also table a motion for this. We want a ban on sales below cost. That's what we're focusing on. Once the Dutch taxpayer financially supports the agricultural sector with grant flows, those stables that are built with the help of the Dutch taxpayer must at least meet the requirements of one star. There is a call in society for more animal welfare. The meat with a star is getting better and better sold. If consumers show that they think this is important, we must translate it into the Chamber and tell the Secretary of State: if you do grant aid for stables to the agricultural sector, then make sure that these stables meet the requirements of this time. These are modern demands with more animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u211	I note that Mrs Dikkers is going to argue that there should no longer be meat sold below cost in the supermarkets. I ask her to respond to the effects that that will have on purchasing power. The people with lower incomes spend about 25% on meat and fish. How is Mrs Dikkers going to explain to the grassroots that the meat will be more expensive €10 to €25 per month as a result of taking such measures? How is she gonna explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u212	Not all the meat in the supermarket is cheap. Only there are small amounts of cheap meat in the shelves to lure the customer in. That's the meat the PvdA acts against. We say that stunting with kilos is bad for the farmer, the animals and the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u213	D66 also doesn't want kilobulbs, but why doesn't Mrs Dikkers argue for transparency in the chain, from farmer to supermarket? Everyone can then see how much the meat has been produced and how much it will eventually be on the shelves. And why doesn't Mrs Dikkers argue in favour of a label that shows people at a glance, and I would like to mention that the double-stop lighting system is either healthy or good for animal welfare? Then she gave power to the consumer, didn't she? That's a much more effective tool than interference from above, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u214	That's a lot of questions in one interruption. We see that a quality mark makes a fine distinction. Do we want biological or anything else? There are many labels in this area. We want to ban the sale of meat below cost, so that farmers no longer make a dime from it. We can also make products a lot cheaper if we allow factories to discharge their mess freely on the rivers. However, we do not want that. That is why we have agreed rules with each other to protect nature and farmers. I believe that this rule fits in with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u215	One quality mark, that's what I'm asking for. We need to be able to see at a glance whether animal welfare, sustainability and health are guaranteed. At the same time, we are calling for transparency in the chain. Isn't that how we have exactly what Mrs. Dikkers wants? Without the government interfering, do we give the power to the customers? That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u216	A little further down in my text, it says that we very much want the chain to be much more transparent. From here on, I congratulate Foodwatch, who today won the trial she filed against the NVWA to find out where Willy Selten's horse meat went. So we too very much want the chain to be transparent, but that is not the only thing we want. Even if it were all very transparent and clear, consumers would still be tempted to buy something that is sold below cost. I assume Mrs Koser Kaya agrees with me. We want to make that just as impossible. After that we have the Better Life Brand or the smileys with a blue or red check mark, which I never really understand. I don't know if another label will change anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u217	One hallmark. We are thus rid of all the other labels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u218	Now Mrs. Dik is going to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u219	The PvdA makes a good plea for transparency around the cost price. At present, farmers are unable to earn enough income and have to incur more costs in terms of meat production than they receive. The Christian Union proposed this earlier, I believe a year or two ago. At the time, the Secretary of State picked that out and said that Europe was not allowed to do so. What will the PvdA do if the cabinet says again that Europe is not allowed to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u220	Then the cabinet can go to the Germans, because they do the same, or to the Austrians. The EU Economic and Social Committee has said that this is a way of ensuring that the primary producer is protected. In Europe, there is a shift in thinking in this respect. Half of the European Member States are in this process or already have legislation in this area. I can therefore imagine that if the Secretary of State is wondering how he can negotiate with Europe, he can go to his German, Austrian, French, Latvian or Danish colleagues for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u221	I'd like short interruptions and brief, concise answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u222	I also mentioned those countries that do stick their necks out, sometimes against European legislation. I told you we're gonna have to settle this with each other. If Germany can do that, why can't we? At that time, I had the reaction that Europe was not allowed to do so. I hope that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will now stand firm and continue with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u223	Yes. That's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u224	Nevertheless, some historical perspective on this subject. My predecessor, Mr Atsma, tabled a motion on this point in November 2004. The cabinet was asked to investigate the possibilities of selling below the purchase price. That motion was signed by Mr Slob, Mr Van der Vlies and Mr Van den Brink..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The conclusion from that study was: a ban can even increase the pressure on suppliers. After all, if the retail trade is not allowed to sell below the purchase price, additional pressure will be applied to achieve lower purchase price. What is the reaction of the PvdA Group to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u225	The European Economic and Social Committee, as it is called in full, has calculated that a ban on sales of products below cost is an instrument for achieving a better relationship in the chain. He has thought about this with a very large think tank of very wise people. That is not the least of the parties; it is the EU's Economic and Social Committee. I trust that they have thought about this in such a way that it is true. You can see that's what the Germans are doing. It is not something we come up with on our own, but what is happening in the countries around us. It is not because the Labour Party wants it so badly, but because it is very good for the farmer. Shouldn't that appeal to the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u226	The PvdA Group is avoiding my question. The Economic Institute for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has made a clear statement in its report. I just repeated it here. There's just pressure on the suppliers to offer even lower. So the plan you are proposing is going to increase the pressure on those suppliers. I can't imagine the PvdA Group being in favour of that. Perhaps I can offer Mrs. Dikkers a way out of this misery. It is perhaps time that she supported our initiative paper 'An honest sandwich, about strengthening the food chain' for an referee in the food chain, which could actually do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u227	If you have a referee who has no instruments, such as a ban on sales below cost, you have an referee who can't do that much. If you put an referee in the football field but you haven't agreed any other rules, then you don't have much use for that, I can see that with my son on the football field. So one doesn't have to rule out the other. Let us see how we can do the best for farmers, animals and consumers alike. If the other Member States succeed, I do not understand why we would not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u228	My group is very sympathetic to this suggestion. We will certainly support them. However, I am also very curious about the answer given by the Secretary of State, not only whether Europe should or should not, because that answer will be too faint in the meantime, especially in view of the examples mentioned by Mrs Dikkers. But in the past it has always been hidden behind it. I'll have to confirm that. Several speakers have said this here. When it comes to protecting the primary producer, I wonder whether some negative effects can actually occur. Mr Geurts mentioned something about that. Does Mrs Dikkers agree with me that we should also look at the possible impossibility of the form of contract whereby farmers are forced to supply their supplier under their cost because they simply get to know afterwards what the price is and because the contract states that that is the market price? I can imagine that a variant of her suggestion might be that we would ban that form of contract by law in this way, with these consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u229	I cannot quite see what Mr Grashoff is asking me right now, but I would very much like to see if that is perhaps a possibility. Is the sun gonna shine harder in the Brabant Peel as soon as we eliminate that kilo-blaster? No. The farmer's gonna make money all of a sudden? No. It is one step towards a better income for the farmer and a better position for his cattle. I'd like to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u230	I welcome Mrs Dikkers' contribution on this point. Mrs Dikkers said that we should move on to another production situation. It also needs to be improved in terms of quality. I think Mrs Dikkers has also read the reports that say that we should consume less meat if we want to leave a living earth to our children. Does Mrs Dikkers have a positive attitude towards the pricing of meat and making fruit and vegetables much more attractive to consumers than unhealthy and non-sustainable products, such as animal products? You could differentiate by means of the VAT rate. You could make meat at the VAT rate slightly more expensive and fruit and vegetables, which people eat too little, cheaper. The Secretary of State also said that it is a major problem that people do not eat enough of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u231	I cannot fully see whether this will have the desired effect, but if the PvdD Group puts that issue forward as a motion, we will discuss that effect with our tax people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u232	The Planning Bureau of the Environment has already calculated it. It's worth 1.1 billion to the state. This enables us to innovate and invest in sustainable products. I would like to discuss this with the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u233	I'm open to it. I find this interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u234	I'm still a little bit chewing on the proposal of not selling below cost. That sounds nice in itself. However, we know that the supermarkets want to sell meat at the lowest possible price. They say to the farmer that the law must be enforced, but that no more needs to be done than what the law requires. Aren't you discouraged from taking the path that the sector is trying to take when everyone sits at the lowest possible level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u235	It's not different now, is it? The minimum is produced. Most of the pork, for example, goes abroad. The supermarkets are slowly moving towards one star. Those are very nice things. Lidl's doing it, too. I think that is a very good initiative. However, the fraction of the PvdA wants to get rid of stunts with very cheap meat to attract customers into the supermarket. Supermarkets do not benefit in the long term either. They want to invest in sustainability, they want to raise consumers in this respect. That's what they all say with a lot of beautiful words. Let us therefore take that final step by helping the supermarkets to sell better meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u236	Now we have the answer we wanted. Mrs Dikkers says it is now, but her solution is not a solution. We really must have a fair price for a fair product. If you're not allowed to sell below cost, everyone's gonna press that cost. That's what we don't want. We want to increase costs if it has to go up in the context of animal welfare and nature. Would Mrs. Dikkers like to search with us for a fair price for an honest product? Is she not so much attached to the instrument as to the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u237	I am not attached to the instrument at all, but I am attached to the result. In the countries around us, it works. That is what Mr Dijkgraaf should appeal to. The cure's working. It's not about getting the cost down any further. The point is that the farmer can earn an honest living. That should also be addressed by the SGP Group. People have less and less confidence in the products in the shelves of the supers thanks to food scandals like the horse meat scandal, turkey sold as lamb, false health claims, packaging, and ingredients lists that turn out to be wrong. The food industry has raised suspicion of itself. The PvdA Group therefore expects the food sector to bear the costs of increased surveillance of the sector itself. The loss of confidence leads to new initiatives. I am hopeful in that respect. There's change in the air. People have less confidence in large, anonymous products and want a revolution. The Secretary of State is ideally placed to help make this revolution possible. The time is right. Society is ripe for it. Is this Secretary of State ready for this? The number of sustainable products in consumers' shopping cars has grown again this year, by 18%. The consumer wants it. It is time to move on: local loops instead of manure processing; domestic feed rather than transported with animal feed and live have; produce in the region what is needed in the region. The Netherlands should not become the major net exporter of agricultural products, but of knowledge, quality and innovation. It's possible. We have an excellent university, highly skilled and highly educated farmers and a world that knows what Holland has to offer. There are more and more initiatives that show that it can be done. For example, there are nature farmers knocking on our door because they would very much like to save their cattle transport to the slaughterhouse. Farmers ask us about the possibility to slaughter the cattle without that stress factor, checked in the pasture or in the stable. Will the Secretary of State undertake to start a pilot in the Netherlands as well? I'm bringing in the Germans. There are good examples in Germany of animals which, although checked, are not transported to the slaughterhouse under good conditions. We would very much like to see that, and we are tabling a motion on that point. There are other promising initiatives, such as Willem & Drees: entrepreneurs who supply local products to local supermarkets. They are beautiful, hopeful initiatives, to which the Secretary of State can contribute in his special post, which he has recently been allowed to occupy, by giving them a swing in the right direction. I wish him a great deal of wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u238	I understand that Mrs Dikkers has not gotten to everything, given the limited time she has. I would have liked her to comment on the NVWA's report on serious animal suffering from unsedated ritual slaughter. This shows that the serious animal suffering is still continuing. The covenant, which hangs somewhere in the air, hasn't changed anything about it if it's already been worked out. How does Mrs Dikkers appreciate the opinion of the NVWA office, namely that there should be a ban on the unsedated ritual slaughter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u239	The Labour Party voted in favour of Mrs Thieme's proposal to prevent the slaughter of animals. You can see that there are a lot of initiatives, such as the slaughter line of the VanDrie Group, where the animals are drugged with a pin in the brain, after which they are cut. I apologize to the people at home for the somewhat plastic description. The animals are slaughtered ritually, but can still be intoxicated. There are all kinds of initiatives. I understand that the Secretary of State will come up with an evaluation of the covenant and that we can then discuss it again here in the Chamber. I really hope that we will have a solid debate on this, because I agree with Mrs Thieme that the abuses that NVWA has shown, but also the abuses that we occasionally get in our inbox from people who have seen it with their own eyes, are not a lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u240	So the standard for the Labour Party is still that animals need to be sedated before they are slaughtered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u241	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u242	I was pleased to hear Mrs Dikkers' speech from the Labour Party. I thought, "What the hell is going on?" She's gonna be all over it. We'd like to see that. I would like to put a problem to her about the Dutch Food and Waring Authority. The VVD wants to dismantle it: fewer rules and more wild west. The NVWA will be cut: in 2015 by 130 million and in 2018 by 112 million. It's in the budget. Does the Labour Party intend to reverse this trend with the SP and say: let us stop dismantling the Food and War Authority and stop the cuts in the Food and War Authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u243	The Secretary of State has sent a letter stating: we are going to see what kind of supervision we really want, what it takes and what the cost is. Then we're gonna see who's gonna have to pay those costs. I think that is very wise, and I want to wait and see. You can add money again in the Autumn note, fortunately, some of the savings on NVWA are being repaired, but we also need to look closely at the task package. We don't do that because we need less supervision. But maybe we need smarter surveillance and more camera work. I would very much like to wait and see before we take any further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u244	I am now experiencing a hesitation again, and that is a pity. I thought maybe she's gonna get behind this, too. That would be very nice. The Navy note shows that the Dutch Food and War Authority simply does not meet the targets. It had already been predicted by the General Court that this would not be possible, and that is now true. Over the past ten to fifteen years, a third road has been cut. A third of the staff is gone. If we want a powerful Food and War Authority that also supervises decent and safe food, do we need a Food and War Authority that can not only bark, but also bite? We also need quality and quantity for this. Is the Labour Party prepared to support a motion from us to reverse the trend?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u245	I'd like to see the motion first. We look forward to all the motions with great interest. We will soon have a debate on NVWA. I would therefore like to say to Mr Van Gerven: wait until the debate on NVWA on 10 December. Then we will have everything together and we will be able to see what steps we should take. As far as I am concerned, that is a better place, but if Mr Van Gerven wishes to table his motion now, we are looking favourably at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u246	Now I must "grausen," a verb that Mr Klaver van GroenLinks once gave me; one of the few good things he has come up with. I don't understand anymore. Mrs. Dikkers wants to go slaughter animals in the meadow, I understand. You can't do that. What if people pass by? Kids have a traumatic experience for the rest of their lives. You can't do that. We put forward a plan years ago to prevent these nasty animal transports. Work with mobile slaughter or killing stations and transport carcasses. That's the story. So not in the meadow, but neat. The most miserable animal takes place during loading and unloading and during transport. It turns out so. Think of leg fractures and stuff like that. Do I understand why Mrs Dikkers would like to support this request now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u247	Mr Graus has rightly been making a point of the leg fractures in transports and the misery in slaughterhouses for years. I think it's very good that he's doing this again. My ideal image would be what they do in Norway. There are three large trucks on the premises of a pig farmer. The pigs will no longer have to be transported. On the spot, they're intoxicated and killed. Further processing may take place in the slaughterhouse. As far as I am concerned, that would be the future. Then all these movements are no longer necessary for the animals. I understand we haven't come this far yet. We'd like a mobile slaughter box or whatever you call it. For example, the highlanders from the nature reserve in the region in which I live will be spared the passage to the slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u248	That's something else. I just understood that there would be slaughter in the meadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u249	Yeah, I said it a little clumsy. You're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u250	I don't eat anything that flew, crawled or ran. For those who do, we must make it as pleasant as possible for the animals or at least as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u251	I think we're on the same page here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u252	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the budget for Agriculture and Nature. I want to pay a little attention to nature. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we are changing the trend. I'll start with a few words about nature in the city. The more nature in the living environment, the healthier people feel. People in a stone neighborhood die before people in a green neighborhood. People in a green neighborhood get less to the GP. There are many additional deaths per year due to hot weather. Last week a headline was written: more green, less ADHD; so less ritalin. Those are not my words, these are the conclusions from research by RIVM and some Dutch universities on the relationship between green and health. I could give you dozens of examples of this kind. The general conclusion of this kind of research is: the more green people are around, the healthier people feel and are. Dutch cities are rocking, are getting warmer and suffer from water pollution. There's less room for greenery in the neighborhoods. This is a trend which must be reversed as far as the Labour Party is concerned. The Labour Party wants liveable, healthy, so green neighborhoods for everyone. A green neighborhood is not only healthy, but there is also room for plants and animals. Such a neighbourhood also helps to cope with the consequences of climate change, such as heat stress and water pollution. Turning this trend requires a green agenda for the city. This is primarily an agenda drawn up with citizens, businesses and civil society organisations. Because a lot is already happening in society. I've been able to see that over the past year during a lot of work visits. I call the experience garden, the living garden, green junctions, Operation Stonebreak, the generation garden, the Little Wilderness, the green school, nature playgrounds and neighborhood gardens. I won't explain what it is, because then I'm gonna need too much time. They are all innovative ideas that come from society and that lead to more greener neighbourhoods, often in combination with active citizens, and, as far as I am concerned, active companies. As far as we are concerned, these initiatives must be given scope. The government can direct, stimulate knowledge development, inform, subsidise and regulate. The Labour Party is currently working on an initiative paper on the many green initiatives from society. It focuses on how the government can stimulate these initiatives. This initiative paper will be launched in February or March 2016. Nature in the countryside is not doing well. This is demonstrated in several reports. I refer to State of the nature in the EU, the interim report of the European Biodiversity Strategy, and the report Nature in the Netherlands of the World Wildlife Fund. We can also reverse the trend here. The new agricultural management and landscape management is a means to this end. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, we are going to monitor carefully whether it is achieving the goals. However, a proper ex ante evaluation of the area applications is also very important. We're getting signals that provinces lack opportunities to adjust in the meantime. This means that we do not have the certainty that land plans meet requirements, and that there is therefore no good basis for provinces to adjust. Has the quality of the area applications been sufficiently assessed in advance, as they are now being assessed? Does it offer any possibilities for provinces to steer mid-term on those area plans? I'll be on the meadowbirds. In the process of examining the Law on Nature Protection, a motion by GroenLinks and the Labour Party called for proposals covering the whole country aimed at the conservation and restoration of grazing bird populations. The Secretary of State is now drawing up a plan on meadow birds. He told us about that plan yesterday. The Secretary of State's commitment is judged positively by us. However, we would like some more. GroenLinks and the Labour Party propose to have frontrunners among the collectives and farmers doing grazing bird management experiment with an innovative approach. As far as we are concerned, that is what the Secretary of State refers to in his letter as'seeking for system innovation'. We have tabled an amendment to that effect and ask the Secretary of State to agree to make 5 tonnes available for 2016 and twice for the following years. The CDA has already said something about nature volunteers through Mr Geurts. Nature does sail with the many thousands of volunteers for all kinds of work. They contribute to monitoring, research, management and maintenance. For years now, essential work has been done in nature, thereby contributing to the realisation of Dutch nature policy. The Chamber has repeatedly stressed the importance of continuity in voluntary organizations in nature, the last time through the motion of the CDA and the PvdA in the last VAO Nature Policy. With the decentralisation of nature policy, the responsibility for supporting nature volunteers lies with the provinces, but it is not clear who is responsible for this or for the continuation of the present voluntary service. This is not well documented in the Natural Pact. As a result, many volunteers who have been working for years without any interest to society are at risk of falling apart. In order to ensure continuity, we now want the government to reach clear agreements and a transitional financial arrangement with the provinces. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he is prepared to implement a transitional financial arrangement for nature volunteers. We have a motion on this point with the CDA. Finally, I would like to comment on the Birds and Habitats Directives. The Court has recently made a clear statement on the current level of protection of biodiversity in Europe, which is secured by the Birds and Habitats Directives. That's the absolute lower limit. The Ministers of eight Member States have written a letter to the European Commission calling for the current directives to be left unchanged and for improvements to be made to the implementation of the directive. Seven of the nine political groups in the European Parliament have now joined. Several other countries are still thinking about this. We cannot leave the Netherlands as a Member State. My question to the Secretary of State is what is the reason why the Dutch Minister of Agriculture and Nature has not also signed the letter and whether he is prepared to support this request. We may also table a motion on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u253	Mr Leenders of the Labour Party began his speech by saying that the trend towards nature policy must be reversed. Prime Minister Rutte said that we are going to fully implement the main ecological structure with its connections. Mrs Jacobi has also spoken about this and has said: of course we are going to complete the main ecological structure. It concerns 728 500 hectares. Now I read in the seventh progress report that for the first time in recent history, the main ecological structure has decreased by 1,384 hectares, thanks to this cabinet of the PvdA and the VVD, with its austerity and decentralisation of nature policy. How is that possible and what is Mr Leender going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u254	That is a very good question from Mr Van Gerven. We have just mentioned this issue in one of the VOCs. I think we have agreed that we are going to discuss this in a separate VAO. We think this development is very undesirable and we are also going to ask these critical questions to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u255	You are on the buttons; you have caused this yourself and you can also fix it. In my opinion, the solution is very simple. The policy we had worked very well. That was centrally controlled through the Empire, with quite a lot of resources. Those resources are halved. Can we not reverse the trend, which you apparently want to see by extending the budget further, allowing more money to go to nature and making very hard agreements with the provinces on how to complete the main ecological structure, as it was intended from 1990, including connecting zones?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u256	I don't think this is reversing the trend, but just doing what we agreed on. I, too, have a question about the fact that this apparently failed in previous years, as stated in that interim report. As far as I'm concerned, this is not a trend break. We agreed to do this, and we're going to realize that nature network. We can do that within the current budget. So that's what we're gonna do. I'm not in the government. We have appointed ministers and secretaries of state to do this for us. I'm going to ask critical questions about that, like you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u257	I want to talk about the traditional shepherds. They are under pressure, especially from public procurement, while they are loved by tourists, are important for nature conservation and also maintain a piece of cultural history and heritage. Can I, together with the Labour Party Group, ask the Secretary of State about the preservation of those traditional sheep cattle? Can we move forward together to prevent these herds from falling under because of market forces on the moors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u258	As Mrs Dik may know, Mrs Lutz Jacobi has repeatedly referred to this problem. In budgetary treatment, you have to choose from the many topics you can discuss. This could have been one of those subjects. I suggest Mrs Dik asks those questions. I suspect that I will be able to support them and we will see to what extent we can work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u259	I do know that Mrs Jacobi has raised this point several times. I kind of missed it with the Labour Party now. I'll do this. I have included this in my contribution and I hope for support from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u260	I had ten other topics and we made choices. However, I fully agree with Mrs Dikk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u261	I agree with Mr Van Gerven's interruption. We receive reports from the land managers and the nature organisations that things are not going well with the further roll-out of the NatureNetwork Netherlands. We are also getting signals that this is due, among other things, to the undressing of the implementation organisation DLG and the way in which this has now been organised. Does Mr Leenders know these signals? Is he prepared to take initiatives with me to highlight the implementation side again, in the new system, of course, together with the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u262	No, that's the answer to the first question. I do not know these signals, but I am very willing to look with Mr Grashoff at what we can do with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u263	Mrs Thieme, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u264	Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u265	I was not sure whether Mr Leenders had finished his contribution, but it appears that he has. I have discussed hunting extensively with Mr Leenders. I won't repeat that debate, I'll announce it. We now have a national exemption list, which includes the fox. This means that the fox can be hunted anywhere in the Netherlands, whether there is damage or not; this need not be specifically demonstrated. Does Mr Leenders agree with me that this is too general a rule and that we should choose to decide locally whether it is necessary? Does he agree that we should remove the fox from that exemption list? This would also mean that the Labour Party would hold on to the promise to its voters that the exemption for the fox would end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u266	I think this is provincial policy. There is an exemption list of five species and there is no fox on it. If the fox doesn't cause damage, it won't be hunted. If this is the case, exemption is granted at provincial level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u267	You have an exemption list for huntable species that are the five species that we have been debating, as well as a national exemption list for animals that may cause damage. This is centrally recorded. So the provinces aren't about it. If a province decides not to hunt foxes, it can't even do so, because the fox is on the national exemption list. That is why I would like the fox to be removed from that list. That has nothing to do with pleasure hunting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u268	Would it be okay if I answered that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u269	Yes. I shall then give the floor to Mr Graus before we begin our lunch break.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u270	Mr. Chairman. Welcome, Secretary of State. I have already warned: this committee, with its mentality, is a sort of Gaul village in the States-General. The Secretary of State will find out. In any case, I wish him every success in doing so. Today is a happy day, because it is exactly three years since I, together with then Minister Opstelten, was able to take part in the swearing-up of the first animal police officers at the Police Academy in Apeldoorn. There would be 500 fulltimers, but unfortunately it stuck on 80 parttimers. I'll get back to you on that. Our family and family farms are in need and our fishing is being destroyed. The EU, therefore, not Europe, has proved to be a major trap of suffocating regulation and false competition, co-financed by the Netherlands. The Netherlands, measured per capita, is one of the largest net contributors. Natura 2000, long permit procedures, manure and ammonia policies and expensive air scrubbers I've already mentioned them during interruptions....................................................................................................................................................................... All parties, except the Party for Freedom, have made this possible. We've always fought that. I've been sitting here for nine years and for nine years I've been making the same argument. Everyone has made this possible. They all dropped the entrepreneurs, but now they say, "Oh, come on, we'll help you up; how pathetic." But now it's too late. We should never have allowed that, but yes, let us make the best of it for the second time. Until China, we are praised for our craftsmanship and are literally fighting for, for example, Dutch milk powder. I have just mentioned it: the top image and the high quality of Dutch products are only destroyed by e.g. Brussels. Worldwide they are willing to pay more for "Made in Holland." Go do more with "Made in Holland." I hope the Secretary of State will do that. We have to call that much more. We need to be much more proud. The Swiss put a flag on everything. They put "Swiss Made" on everything. We don't do that. We just have to do that. We are far too modest. We always let ourselves eat the cheese from the bread, by everyone. We need to stand up for ourselves a little more. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of the Graus motion for a better income model, the reduction of costs and a level playing field for our farmers, growers and fishermen? Now some powerful retailers are taking the big money, while our farmers are doing the heavy work and going to hell massively. Indeed, Mrs Lodders, I have said that if we impose higher animal welfare on them, this must be paid. I believe that this should be borne by the retailers, who have taken the big money long enough. It has to go to the farmers, the gardeners and the fishermen. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that. How and when is the government going to ensure our competitiveness and improve the chain structure and speed up and simplify licensing procedures? That is also stated in an adopted Graus motion. In what way does the government allow national interests to prevail over those of the EU? This is also an approved Graus motion, which has not been dealt with. Where is our phosphate bank now that China says 'own people first' and we no longer want to be dependent on the last, almost exhausted Moroccan mines? Phosphate, which binds oxygen, provides a primary life requirement. Please get on with that, Secretary of State, because manure will be the brown gold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u271	Before you continue, Mrs. Lodders would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u272	Mr Graus can speak very passionately about Dutch farmers. That's how we know him. I still have a question. I have already mentioned it in the interrupting debate he held with me. For the pig farmers, the need is terribly high. A comparison with the farmers in the countries around us shows that the cost difference per kilo of carcass weight is 19 cents. Will Mr Graus respond to that? This is not just about the rules that come from the European Union, but about the rules that Mr Graus, his group and a number of other parties in this Chamber impose on this sector time and time again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u273	No, that's bullshit. I've never approved things that would greatly increase the cost of things. Never. I never did. I've always left the church in the middle. That will appeal to Professor Dijkgraaf. I've always left the church in the middle. If it were to cause a head blow to the farmers, I would never have done so. I did say, however, that we must cherish animal welfare and monitor and maintain it properly. Whether you believe in the theory of evolution or in the story of creation, the animals were there before humans, and we have a good deal to deal with. There has never been a farmer, as I say to Mrs Lodder through the President, who has addressed me. The reason why our farmers do so well abroad is precisely the quality. It is precisely the Swiss watch quality that our farmers deliver. That's why the Chinese are kicking each other's ass for our milk powder. That's the only reason, and that's paid for. This must also be paid here and charged to the retailers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u274	We are very much in agreement on that quality. However, I only have to mention a few examples. We've got the four-day...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u275	That has nothing to do with money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u276	That has a lot to do with money! A pigsty in the Netherlands must be 25% larger than the stables just across the border with you in Germany. 25%! I can tell you on a note what the difference is. You really should be open to that at some point. Otherwise, your plea is really worth less. I appreciate you very much, but here you are getting wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u277	Absolutely not. Mrs. Lodders might want that, but I'm not getting wet at all. That's bullshit. The first point, that four-day requirement, is simply determined. Many farmers have told me that it is possible, that they are already doing it and that nothing is going on. There are always a few mosquito-sifters, milkers or vinegar pissers who say it can't be done. You always do. That's what you have here in the Chamber, and that's what you have among the peasants. I am led by the masses, by veterinarians and by experts in this matter. Then we have to be honest. However, it has nothing to do with money. Then I come to Mrs Lodder's second point. If farmers do something about animal welfare, it must be paid. That is the intention, also in the Netherlands. That is why I am asking for a better income model for our farmers, growers and fishermen. I'm telling you for the tenth time. This Secretary of State must take care of that too. I'm not in the government. I can only ask for it. However, it has to be paid. People are already willing to pay a lot for Dutch products abroad, because we have such a high standard for animal welfare, public health and animal health. That is the only reason our farmers are doing so well. So please let them stay ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u278	Mr Graus continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u279	Food safety is still not guaranteed in the Netherlands. The situation surrounding the company Foppen, where people were killed, was the best opportunity to comply with the PVV requests for higher fines, prison sentences for the bastards who are guilty of this and closure of the multi-stakeholder company. The company should have been shut down long ago, should have gotten a red card by now. There have been deaths. Thousands of people have become ill, but no action has been taken. In the United States, similar assholes, from director to quality manager, get 28, 20 or 5 years in jail. Here we only do puppies and wets and give fines of a few tens. They're laughing at us. The crime they commit is just affordable. They pay the fine and they literally laugh at us. Action, Secretary of State! Animal executioners need a life-long ban on keeping animals. Where is the promised 144 campaign? I cannot blame this Secretary of State, but the previous Secretary of State has promised this, as has the Minister of Security and Justice. There was supposed to be a campaign for 144 rescue an animal. Two thirds of people don't know this song exists. Something's got to happen to it. Nevertheless, there are hundreds of thousands of reports. Let's be honest about that, too. Let the current 180 animal police rescuers work full-time instead of part-time. We'll be there by then. We want 500 full-timers, but if those 180 part-timers start working full-time, we can relieve the NVWA. Then they can deal with food scandals and prevent people from getting killed. Then the animal police rescuers can go after the animal shelters, the animal executioners. That's how we do it. Bring the NVWA and the animal police to the required level. We have tabled motions on this subject for many years, but they have hardly ever been supported. Now it's too late and everyone starts crying. Provide them with the necessary tools, including those heat cameras. I'm thinking about those shady vans from the East Block, with those carpathian heads driving into our country with sick puppies. At least make sure the border control, the NVWA, the animal police or the Marechaussee, get those heat cameras. Then I come to the shelter of animals. This is a very serious matter. Certain circus animals are forbidden. There's only a few left. They'll be taken to a storage facility. I predicted to the last Secretary of State that an elephant would be dying in three weeks to three months. Well, the perfectly healthy elephant Rani died in storage within two weeks. Please, let's not do this. An elephant that's been with a circus for decades can't just be thrown into a warehouse in Germany. Where's the shelter? That's what I'm asking the organization Wild Animals Out of the Tent, who doesn't give home anymore. She's made this possible, and now animals are getting away and animals are dying and you can't hear anyone. I find that scandalous. What's gonna happen to it? In the last month, I presented a worldwide first, the "Stable Safe" system, in the context of the 2010 PVV fire prevention plan. This provides escape and escape options for stable animals. Since 2006, 1.8 million have been burned alive. Is the government prepared to set up a pilot stand in collaboration with Brandweer Nederland, the Royal Netherlands Society for Veterinary Medicine, LTO and insurance companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u280	Mr Graus makes Wilde Dieren de Tent Uit here really an unjustified reproach. All those organisations that have advocated the ban on wildlife in circuses have provided shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u281	That's not true. That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u282	There are all reception addresses. The problem is, the circus directors didn't want to take it. There has been an exchange of letters with the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State has also urged the circus directors to take advantage of the offer for shelter and "no" has been said. That's what I'm calling here for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u283	I've asked for support from Wildlife Tent Out. I can show you the texts. I literally wrote that they abandoned me, but then when the first elephant is dead, there's gonna be a message they'd like to help. Then it is too late. It always is. Then they're afraid they're gonna get negative on the news. They've failed. Those animals are all gonna be out of here in a minute. I find that a disgrace. If you need to put on big pants, make sure those animals get a good home. They didn't. Besides, you can't throw a circus elephant in a shed or put it between other animals after decades of staying in a circus. Those are often antisocial animals towards other elephants. They can't be caught with other elephants at all. Some can, but others can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u284	With this, Mr Graus has also given himself an argument as to why it has been so unnatural that these animals were kept there for the tricks, to entertain people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u285	That's bullshit, too. I like to catch animals that nobody really wants, because they're recalcitrant, because they're bullies and biters. I pick them up and they don't do that to me. It often depends on where such an animal ends up and who deals with it. What Mrs Thieme says is bullshit. You can't say that like that. I even had puppies in the house who were insane. So that has nothing to do with elephants in themselves, which can occur in all animals. An elephant is more sensitive than a dog and a cat and we forget that. That's why the elephant was eaten away in two weeks. The vet said he was healthy before he had to leave. Then why did I predict it in the Chamber before it happened? I told you here. A few weeks later it happened and then we find it weird. "Nostradionus" said it. Finally, I see that I have to conclude... I would like to ask the Secretary of State to facilitate the possibility of a foundation being set up to offer rewards to track down animal executioners. The point is that money can be collected, just money from businesses and citizens. Of course, the state's money is fine, but that's not what I'm specifically concerned about. There are a lot of people who have come forward for this and I find it very sympathetic. All the Secretary of State has to do is facilitate the foundation. Let me give you an example of the horse executioner. That would be a really big deal. I would also like to ask for a Dutch forensic team to support the NVWA and the animal police. I have put forward an amendment to that effect, and I have also found financial cover for it. This way we can catch a horse executioner or several horse executioners faster. Maybe there are copycats by now. We should be able to catch them. This requires a veterinary forensic team that wants to work with the NFI. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u286	You came to the end of your speech? You've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u287	Yeah, I've got so much left, but I'm gonna have to do it another time. It's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u288	I won't talk about that elephant. I was wondering how Mr Graus would place it in his backyard if he wanted to take it, but that is not what my question is about. My question is this. What does Mr Graus of the PVV mean by the bio-industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u289	I did not use the word bio-industry, so I do not know why Mr Geurts is asking me that question. Mrs Thieme always says something like: 'I also want the bio-industry to stop'. That's what Mrs Thieme says. I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u290	Mrs Thieme will be speaking later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u291	It is very nice to say so, but on 14 January this year Mr Graus tabled a motion to abolish the bio-industry. I still wonder what Mr Graus means by the bio-industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u292	No, I've always asked the government to allow for a rapid phasing-out. Maybe that's what you mean. All studies are based on certain numbers of animals and above a certain number of animals........................................................................................................................................................................... Then you're not talking about small-scale family and family farms, you're talking about the big cattle farms. This is called the bio-industry, in which pigs are all lying between bars and that sort of thing. It's up to you, because you've been a pig farmer yourself. We are concerned with small family and family businesses. Actually, we would prefer to go back to the time when the animals still had a name, but that won't work anymore. At least we want to get rid of mega-stables and what you call the bio-industrie. By the way, I asked for a cut-off. I never asked for it to be abolished. You can't do that at all. In fact, I have been blaming Mrs Thieme for years that you cannot table such a motion in this way because it is the global demand and supply that determines it and not a State Secretary and some MPs of a country. So I'm really wondering where you got that wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u293	I'll just mention what's in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u294	Then you'll have to read it literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mr Graus said in September 2012 that he will launch a website in which he will show exactly what he is doing in Parliament for the agricultural and horticultural sector. When's he coming up with that website?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u296	I didn't say that either. I don't know where you got it. Then read it literally. You're just yelling. You'll have to read literally what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u297	Mr. Geurts is going to read.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u298	I'm reading it on the Farm's website. I'll send it to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u299	I'm a complete digibeet, you know, so I don't know how to start a website.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u300	Mr. Geurts is going to read.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u301	It says: Graus also plans to launch a website on which he shows exactly what he does in parliament for the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u302	But who writes this crap? You're getting something out of the newspapers that write all this bullshit about me. Wikipedia even says I've been a bus driver, but I don't even have a driving license! You shouldn't believe any of this crap. I've been fighting that bullshit for nine years now. I'm glad I can say that here. I've never abused a woman either. I've never done that, but it's all written by the regulars. The same goes for this nonsense. I never said that. You have to take the man or woman who says something like that from the shoelace, at least that man, because you can get it from the shoelace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-02-tweedekamer-3.u303	Calm down. At least we understand you. This brings us to the end of the morning part of the first term of the Chamber.
