ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. This is another priority for the Minister with whom he can do better and certainly better. An average of 600 shopkeepers per day have been shown to be threatened or face physical or verbal violence. In total, there are about 180,000 cases per year. In about 10,000 cases it is so intense that people are spit, beaten, pinched or otherwise physically beaten. This has been under investigation for four years, but safety has not improved in all these years. My group finds this unacceptable. I hope the Minister will, but I'll ask him about that in a minute. These are no longer incidents, this is a structural problem. The question to the Minister now is how he will deal with this structural problem. It seems to me that new measures need to be introduced, because if safety has not improved in four years, then the measures will not help or will not help enough. Does the Minister agree with the PVV that this means at least that no police stations should be closed? First of all, to promote discovery in the act; the chance of getting caught must be increased. Second, to help shopkeepers who arrested an unsub. Of course, they can't have coffee with a perp like that for an hour. Is the unsub being punished, or is he gonna be out in a minute? We have already talked about the risk of punishment that needs to be raised. For those who do not know this concept, the penalty risk is the sum of the chance of being caught and the risk that the offender will actually be punished. It must be avoided that the industry regulates everything while the government defaults. Then the mop is with the tap open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that Mrs Helder raises this issue in connection with an article in De Telegraaf. The survey of the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security was carried out precisely in the framework of the Week of Security. We had that survey carried out, because we knew there was a problem that was also reported by the industry and that this problem has got worse in recent years. I cannot explain why in recent years there has been an upward trend of aggression on the shop floor; I have also put that forward in the media. I find that incomprehensible, but also unacceptable. It is known that action is being taken in all kinds of ways, together with the police. There are house rules in shops and there are all kinds of technical tools available. The police are very conscious about these projects. At the end of the journey, of course, we still have the institute of systematic offenders with which people who commit multiple shoplifting can be arrested longer. Then why the Safety Week? Because the shop staff can be trained much better to control aggression. It is indeed a matter of appalling figures. 25% of shoppers say they are afraid of aggression or already have experience of it. Mrs Helder has therefore rightly raised a point. Last Saturday, I attended a training programme funded by my department, precisely because of the importance we see. We have, of course, also noted that it is very important for the police to act adequately when 112 is called and it is a matter for the police. We must then be at the door in the near future. The police station is not necessarily useful to that, because a police officer at a police station has a longer driving time than a police officer who is already in the area. That is why, in the process of closing police stations, we look very carefully at the question of driving times and what this means for real security. I've made that commitment before in the Chamber. The police also made sure that the 310 app, which was launched yesterday morning in Rotterdam, could be used to make a digital declaration. In addition, very soon the MEOS project will start, which means that there will no longer be a need to report to the police station. The declaration can take place in the shop so that the shopkeeper can get back to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	I thank the Minister for his answers. The Week of Safety had not escaped me. In this context, the Minister has run a tram. Whether that's safe or not, the question is, but okay. The minister says he can't identify the cause of the rise. I suggest to the Minister that he should not just be informed about how staff should be trained. He should talk to the shopkeepers, too. The article contains two reasons. A shopkeeper talks about mopping with the tap open and a melting pot of cultures that is interesting for the neighborhood, but also poses a danger. It also said that the shopkeepers have trained themselves in such a way that they inform each other when there is a group of suspicious East blockers walking through the streets. Then they're gonna warn each other. Perhaps that's also a point for the Minister to take along. Then I come to the point of the police stations and the surveillance officers. I've heard the Minister say that surveillance officers are better in this case. However, I have also said that a suspect who has been arrested, or a perpetrator, it is just what you call a person who needs to be taken somewhere. I think that's a problem we shouldn't be causing. So we really need to keep these police stations open. The Minister says I am right to raise a point. Of course I'm happy about that. So I'm sure the Minister's gonna work on this. However, he wisely missed my last questions. I also asked if they would be punished and what the penalty risk is. I don't usually like the investigations, but can the minister investigate this? That'd be great. I'm sure it just shows that the penalty risk is still 1.3%. So these suspects are hardly going to be punished if they're already arrested. It seems to me that it will certainly appeal to the Minister to find out about this, because that is what you can make policy on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	I am happy to take this point with great regularity the next time I inform the Chamber about the high-impact crimes and how they are handled. Yesterday I sat next to Mayor Aboutaleb, who is chairman of the Task Force Robberies. Contrary to what Mrs Helder seems to suggest, huge results have been achieved in the past few years. Shopkeepers also recognize that the chances of you being robbed have declined dramatically over the past few years. The figures are very clear about that. In 2014, there were 60% fewer robberies than in 2009. That's really spectacular. These results have been achieved thanks to this improved cooperation and also thanks to the Task Force Robberies led by Mayor Aboutaleb. He told me that Rotterdam already has a chance of getting to 53%. So the chances of you actually getting caught after a robbery have increased tremendously. The latest figures will be included in my progress report on the high-impact crimes, so that Mrs Helder is also served on that point. Then, of course, we still have the isd measure that makes it possible for people to be locked up for a very long time after relatively minor offences. I know that Mrs Helder is very much in favour of this, just as I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister is right: Mrs Helder in particular has always stressed this isd measure. It concerns the establishment for systematic offenders or "rotary offenders," for those who do not know what the abbreviation "isd" means. The PVV Group has also always insisted on making this measure possible for young people. I'll come to a conclusion. The Minister does something that is of course very popular when you are Minister. You call one city where things are going well and then you smear those results so that the big problem is masked. Anyway, I have also heard the Minister say that he takes the policy that has such a success in Rotterdam into account in the preliminary report. That leaves me with one question. When can the Court expect that progress report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	With this question, Mrs Helder amazes me. I don't know exactly when we'll send the next version of that to the Chamber. However, I will inform Mrs Helder separately of this meeting. I shall come back to the last point. I agree with Mrs Helder that the question could seriously be asked whether it was wise to put me on a tram in Rotterdam. The odds of getting off the rails aren't that big, but it was really strenuous and exciting. However, I have done it with pleasure to bring the Week of Security to the attention of many. That tram drove there to show that the Ministry, the business community and all those parties that are involved in the Safety Week consider it very important that we increase the safety of the people on the work floor with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
