ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch want to fly safely. People want to fly safe. After the disaster with the MH17, there is one crucial question: why did we still fly over Eastern Ukraine? Why didn't we warn airlines about incidents over Eastern Ukraine? Why did other countries choose to avoid East Ukraine? In short, why didn't we choose to be sure rather than uncertain? Minister Opstelten pointed to circumstances and even suggested that passengers themselves should look at escape routes. The Prime Minister pointed to international rules, protocols and roadmaps. This Secretary of State has often referred to international organisations and better coordination. But the point is that people just don't want to fly over dangerous areas. Now it appears that KLM is still flying over North Korea. The US Aviation Authority prohibits US carriers from flying over North Korea, but we are still flying over it. My questions are: is it true that the Americans are avoiding North Korea because of possible sudden rocket attacks? Is that something this cabinet is also concerned about? If not, why not? Is it true that the KLM, as she herself says, monitors the situation every day? What exactly does this mean? What is the role of our security services? Is it now clear who is responsible for disseminating information to companies? At the MH17, that remains vague. We have a problem now if we don't know that but we do fly over North Korea. Does the Cabinet have any information on possible risks of flying over North Korea? Was this information shared by the Cabinet, for example with the KLM? What other European countries are avoiding North Korea? Why do these countries do that? Can the Cabinet exclude sudden missile exercises from the North Koreans? Can we say to passengers with dry eyes: don't worry, North Korea, it's fine? In other words, why do we not be certain?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I read the article, too. I do not know on what grounds America makes or does not make decisions. Those are America's decisions. Is the KLM monitoring? Yeah, the KLM monitors. The question came very late, but I have been in contact with the KLM, which indicates taking responsibility on the basis of its own safety management system. In the KLM's view, there is no unacceptable risk. They are aware of the information. Each flight shall be re-checked and monitored. That's how the safety management system works. Which countries are avoiding it or not? It is not so much a matter of countries but of airlines taking decisions on these routes. I do not know which countries fly over North Korea. I think I've answered the questions with this. I have a timer these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	It's just for information, but it's nice if you answer the questions in two minutes, like you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	It is a very clear question for passengers. If we want to fly to Japan next week, so to speak, we need to be able to trust that the booked flight will go along safe routes so that our safety is secured. That trust is incredibly important. I am also standing here because I want a clear answer from the cabinet. The Minister referred in the first round to the management system of the KLM. Does the Cabinet say that passengers need not worry? In that case, I would ask the Secretary of State to respond to the difference between the assessment of the Americans and the assessment that the Netherlands apparently makes. If the cabinet also has those concerns, my question remains: why not the certainty? Can the Secretary of State deal with those risks? To what extent have the security services shared this kind of information with the KLM?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	Once again, I cannot give an assessment of what the Americans know or do not know, because I am completely unaware of the basis on which the US government or the airlines make their decisions. The KLM does this on the basis of the safety management system. This is a system audited by the ILT on the basis of EASA legislation. So that's a proven system. Should people be or shouldn't they be worried? I think it is important that good agreements are made on the assessment of risks. The airlines are responsible for this. Ms Hachchi asked what information was provided by security services. Written questions have also been asked about this. There's a letter on the way that includes these questions. I can't anticipate that. I speak on behalf of the cabinet, but my colleagues are more aware when it comes to the security services. I'm not in the system loop when it comes to this information. From my position, I only look at how the airlines apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	The Secretary of State is here on behalf of the cabinet, which speaks with one voice. In that capacity, I also expect answers from the Secretary of State. I still find it odd that the Secretary of State's answer is that she does not know what information the Americans have. The Americans are very clear. They do not fly above North Korea, because then rocket strikes can occur, also through rocket exercises. I find it strange that the Dutch cabinet cannot very clearly explain why we seem to think it wise to fly over North Korea, given the information provided to the companies. I would like a clear answer from the cabinet. The Secretary of State has said quite clearly here that the assessment of the risks lies with the companies themselves. I ask her to answer the question to what extent the Dutch government has a role to play in the information on the basis of which a company such as the KLM makes its assessment of whether or not to fly over a dangerous area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mrs Hachchi raised a number of points. I have just said that the KLM is familiar with the information on the incidents and the missile tests that have been carried out. The KLM considers that there is no unacceptable risk. I understand that Mrs Hachchi may not like the answer, but I answered her question on this. It also asked for the conclusion on the basis of which other airlines or the United States take their decisions. As I said, I have no insight into the considerations they make. Mrs. Hachchi said I should know. I do not think that this is the issue and that every country, and also the KLM as an airline, makes its own assessment. I've come to the point of the security services and the information. The cabinet is indeed speaking with one voice on this point. Questions have been asked about information and security services. As I said, I believe that the answer is on the way. She'll be in the Chamber soon. I think it is important that there is a competent and substantive answer to questions on these issues. That will also come in writing. Of course, I need my colleagues on security and justice, on foreign affairs and on defence, because the Chamber has asked for wide-ranging information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	So I understand from the Secretary of State that until now the services have not given any warning about flying over North Korea. The question which then comes to mind, of course, is: can the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of General Consultation on the MH17 in confidence or not about which countries the services have issued a warning?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	I cannot confirm Mr Van Helvert's conclusion on the services. I am happy to send the Chamber a list of which countries are currently flying and on which countries are not currently flying. I believe that this number is also known. In fact, I believe that this is even included in the answer to the written questions. If this is not the case, I will see to it that the Chamber receives this separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	May I ask another question, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	No, you have already asked two questions during this Question Time. So you can wait until next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	The Secretary of State's answers do give me some concern. She said that I was completely unaware of the trade-offs that are being made in America and I am not "in the loop" about how our intelligence services inform. Does the Secretary of State guarantee today that passengers flying with the KLM can count on KLM having the best risk information? Does it guarantee that KLM has the same risk information as other airlines?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Sjoerdsma and I do not often meet, but when I am asked for guarantees, I always say: in life you can never give guarantees. That has nothing to do with this subject. It is always complicated to give broad guarantees for the future. So the conclusion is that I can't give that guarantee. I don't think anyone can give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	I thank the Secretary of State for her answers and for coming to the Chamber.
