ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, as well as the people who are following this debate in another place. In particular, I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. The debate has been requested by Mrs Vermeij of the Labour Party. She's the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I do not wish to contradict you immediately, but Mr Ulenbelt is prevented today. He had surgery on his hand yesterday. I hope he gets back here with us soon. That's what I'm saying to Mrs Karabulut. We are here in response to last week's announcement: a large Dutch bank sends a message to the organisation about agency workers who would get more rights after 1 July. I was and am still genuinely pissed about it. Less than six years after the government, so you and I, were allowed to guarantee a ridiculously complicated mortgage product in the U.S. for over 20 billion, a few months after the summit, freed from the yoke of payoff to the Dutch government, rewarded itself with a few tons, the bank will search for all the mouse holes for a bump rat. The good news is that protest pays off: although many temporary workers do not get their dream security, they do get a refund as it should be. But in my opinion, you're not a good employer if most of your business is flex-based. What kind of entrepreneurship is that: maximum security at the top, maximum uncertainty among hard-working callers? ING too, all companies have signed the social agreement through employers. It is good that we are having this debate. But my question is whether some employers should not even be severely addressed by their own employer chairman. This applies not only to the bank with the lion, but also to all those clubs that have been lobbying again in recent days to amend the Work and Security Act. No, not the law is going to change now, but the behavior of employers, culture and thinking about industrial relations. I know it can be done, and I believe it can be done. It's gotta be better. Good work for hardworking men and women in the country. All the SCP studies show that there is a need for greater security among ordinary workers and that there is a need for greater uncertainty at the moment. We're going to reverse that trend with small steps. That takes more than a law. Employers and employees will have to do a lot together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u3	It takes more than a law. But what was our surprise yesterday that it is precisely the government itself that has this as well? Where the minister at ING says that this is extremely scandalous, he says here: well, that will happen a few times. Does Mrs Vermeij agree with me that if she is using big words about companies, she should speak just as harshly about the government here in this chair?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u4	Sure. At the end of my speech, I would also like to put this question to the government. But I can very well imagine Mr Van Weyenberg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u5	When ING went wrong, the minister was on the phone the same night. Is Mrs Vermeij very curious to see if the Minister will be able to tell us what he has agreed with his colleagues, so that the government will also improve her life?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u6	That's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u7	I like short answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u8	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mrs. Vermeij said she'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Van Weyenberg is entitled to receive the answer already. I am also grumpy about that, as is Mr Van Weyenberg. Nor does the government do what it itself has agreed to. He and I are well aware that this has also been the case in other areas: the employer part of the pension premium has not been redirected back to the employees, no state-cao, older workers and soldiers who have stopped with a small pension and a mega-AOW-hole and are now removing temporary staff places. That's gotta be better and different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u11	How? I fully share your outrage. But whether it's those bankers who enrich themselves with millions of salaries or these companies, who prefer very cheap staff rather than good and fair wages, it's all completely legal under the law. Do you agree with me that we need to change the laws and rules so that equal rights are created for permanent and less permanent staff?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u12	After 1 July, the law changes and so does Mrs Karabulut. She did not participate in that law, but that law realizes about 90% of what was once an initiative proposal from the SP and the PvdA, namely more rights for temporary staff. A number of principles are set out in the social agreement signed by employers and employees. This has descended into the Work and Security Act. What we see now is that a number of employers are trying to get away from it before that date, to put it mildly. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't matter whether it's the government or ING. That's what we need to talk to them about. After 1 July, temporary employees will have more rights and I still regret that the SP did not want to support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u13	I don't really want to be in this lame game and theater. Mrs Vermeij knows as well as I do that Mrs Hammer's and my colleague Ulenbelt's law, which they worked hard on and which I also enjoyed fantasticly, has not been taken over by the cabinet. Two important elements, namely higher and earlier redundancy compensation and WW premiums, the costs of flexicurities and non-flex forces for employers, have not been taken over. That's why there's a huge hole in that law. If that law is not amended, we will have the same discussion here in two years' time. I understand that Mrs Vermeij has committed herself to this; we have seen that. That was one of the reasons why we said that the law is not going to work in this way. Does Mrs Vermeij at least recognise that there is a problem there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u14	After 1 July many more employees in this country receive compensation, especially the employees with a normal and low income. This is one of the great merits of this law, which, incidentally, comes almost entirely from the initiative proposal and from the social agreement. I welcome this law, but at the same time we have repeatedly said that we in this Chamber continue to look very critically and carefully at the practice of this law. In fact, the Labour Party has amended an assessment clause in this law which has been broadly supported by the entire Chamber. So we are not closing our eyes, but we are looking forward to the great merits of this law, especially for people with an ordinary income. I would just like to mention a few good examples, which are useful in such a debate. At Tata Steel it is agreed that if temporary workers have been employed for more than 12 months on permanent employment, a vacancy will be created. The collective agreement for hospitals has agreed on how flexible work can be made more possible by using a flex pool. In addition, training arrangements have been made. Under the CFP, collective bargaining parties subscribe to the principle of hiring outsiders only at a sick and peak. The parties agree on the principle that reducing external flexibility, read "hire," is linked to increasing the internal flexibility of employees. In short, examples too about how it can be done. I would like to conclude with my point on the government, which I have already mentioned in part in reply to Mr Van Weyenberg. The government is shrinking, I know that too. But "practice what you preach" seems to be a long way off. If we make a moral appeal to companies to behave according to the letter and spirit of the law, the same applies to the government as an employer. How big is this problem? Is this Minister going to talk to his colleagues about this soon? 'Cause this just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u15	Does the PvdA Group think that there is a very big discrepancy in pitch and tone with these sort of revolving door constructions when the minister calls something that happens to business scandalous, but about something that happens to the government, says: it will occur once and for all and we need to learn from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u16	We are sitting together today to debate this issue as well. My reaction is very clear: I think that where there are abuses on the part of employers, whether in the government or in the business community, there should be an equal response and an equal moral appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u17	In doing so, Mrs Vermeij implicitly confirms that the pitches are quite different. Does it share the following concern on behalf of the PvdA Group? When it comes to the private sector, the word "saddenous" is used, and when it comes to the government itself, small words are used. In this way the sense of the beam and the splinter can be created and measured by two measures. Isn't that a risk when people respond to different pitches?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u18	If you have listened carefully to my contribution, you know what the Labour Party's group is like. In the coming months, the government will also have to make an appeal to ING and other companies. The same goes for the government. My lines don't lie about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u19	I'm gonna try again. Mrs Vermeij's pitch was certainly different when it came to ING. I ask her very specifically for the following. Does she agree with me that this week the cabinet should indicate what it is doing and that it should act in the spirit? So it is not good if there are any incidents in the coming months, as the Minister said yesterday. Will Mrs Vermeij now ask the Minister to resolve this this week, as she asked ING to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u20	Practice what you preach. I have said it, both in the debate on collective agreements and in the debate on pension contributions, and I say it again here today: the government too has to abide by this new law. That just seems very clear to me. This applies to all employers in this country who have signed the social agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u21	I would like to say again: not words but deeds. Mrs Vermeij said earlier with regard to these collective agreements that the pension premium that falls free should simply be returned. Thanks to the Labour Party, the motion on this matter of D66 was rejected. So I understand very well that Mrs Vermeij finds this unfortunate afterwards and simply thinks that this pension premium should be returned to employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u22	I never made a misunderstanding about that last one. There was a great desire on the part of the social partners to get out of it themselves, but I find the passage to court that workers have now had to make extremely unhappy. I think the government should deliver and give butter to the fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mrs. Vermeij says the government must obey the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u24	Letter and spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u25	I agree, but how big is the problem that Mrs Vermeij sketches? Can it indicate in which sectors this is happening and how many people are involved? Is this about the IRS? I can understand some of that. After all, it has a peak in the spring, and so you cannot keep people in service all year round. What financial consequences are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u26	That is exactly the question I asked the Minister. How big is this problem? We are surprised by news coverage, yesterday and already before. In the employers' part of the pension contribution, we know exactly how big the problem is, and in the absence of a collective agreement we know exactly what the problem is, but we do not know exactly what the problem is. So my question to the government is: how big is this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u27	Then I'll use this interruption to direct my questions to the cabinet as well. How big is the problem? How many people are we talking about? Why is it happening? And what are the financial consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u28	You could conclude from Mrs Vermeij's answer that both ING and the government do not comply with the law. Is that what Mrs Vermeij is saying here? Is it saying here that the law is so good, but that employers and the government have found a way to shut down the law and dump the cheaper, flexible labour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u29	I thank Mrs Karabulut for her question, because that is a good question. The law will enter into force on 1 July. Is this therefore a transitional problem to the law or is this a permanent problem once the law has entered into force? I would therefore like to pass that question on to the cabinet. Are we dealing here with a reaction to a forthcoming law or are we dealing here with a reaction from employers who, as it were, do not want to continue to behave according to the letter and spirit of the law, which enters into force on 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u30	That note from ING, but also the stories we get from employees in the government, are obvious. Mrs Vermeij knows all too well. This is just anticipating what is to come; so it is cheaper to be rid of these forces. And that will not change after 1 July, because flex forces remain cheaper, many times cheaper than permanent forces. I find it particularly painful to see here that the Labour Party is blowing the hell out of the sky when it comes to morality, but when it comes to action, it just stands there and looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u31	I am proud of an act, and that act is the inclusion of the social agreement in the Work and Security Act, which gives more rights to temporary workers, which gives more rights to flex forces, which ensures that more people in this country receive a transition fee and that more people will be able to be led from one job to another. That's a big good. I believe in that and I am still very sorry that the SP did not participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u32	I agree with Mrs Karabulut's question, but in a different way. I think it is a dilemma. On the one hand, we want the position of flex workers to be strengthened, and on the other hand we see different practices emerging. As legislators, we need to focus on that. We need to stay alert about this and talk to ourselves: should we do things differently if it does not work out as we had hoped? Mrs Vermeij now asks: is it a permanent problem? If the Minister now says "yes, I think this is going to be a difficult one," does Mrs Vermeij think that the law needs to be amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u33	I think it would be a good idea to wait for the Minister's answer first. Because we're ahead of July 1st. The law has not yet entered into force, so we do not know how the law works until after 1 July. We have already had a debate before that we are going to look very closely at it, that we are going to be very much on top of it. So what we're seeing now is actually the pre-stage of how the law is going to work out. So no, I don't know. I asked and I am curious about the answer, but I think we should first see how the law works and how the law is going to work, and then see what is possible and what needs to be tightened up. Mrs Schouten can always wake me up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u34	I suspect the Minister is going to answer that he's going to evaluate earlier at the request of the Chamber, and then he's going to look at the effects. But in the interim period, a lot of flex workers may have lost their jobs. If we see that before, does Mrs Vermeij think we should do something about it before? If so, what would that be? I find it difficult, but if Mrs Vermeij is so keen on it, she may have that last answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u35	There is a three-year review clause in the law, but we, as a Chamber last week, agreed in a debate that we would get a first look at social affairs for the budget. That's a lot faster. That's from three years to six months. I think that's very good. We are all there to see whether the law deserves tightening up and, if so, at what points, or whether it goes well beyond expectations. Because I understand Mrs Schouten's dilemma very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. The dumping of flex forces, as ING does, is not good, even if they receive up to two thirds of a month's salary. The Minister rightly said this was a disgrace, but he does not change anything if it remains in the face of moral indignation. Is the Minister prepared to adapt quickly the Work and Security Act, which strengthens the dumping of workers? Has the Minister now agreed with ING that the relevant employees will not be dismissed? Many employers lack the morals that the minister appealed to ING. The morals are in a spreadsheet: how can I make people work for as little money as possible? Does the Minister recognize and see this problem? Many employers, such as employers of temporary employment agencies and the taxi industry, are firing flex forces instead of hiring them. Does the Minister know that the government is also guilty of this as an employer? Is the Minister going to set an example by tackling the tricks the government is using? Otherwise, the indignation is not only selective, but also totally unbelievable. Then the Minister has butter on his head. With fine words you don't win it off the spreadsheets and certainly not the spreadsheet managers. As long as flex is cheaper than fixed, many flex workers will be fired within two years. Flex is normally a luxury product and expensive. Whether it's a temporary office, a plane ticket or renting a car, flex is always more expensive. Isn't it strange that this doesn't apply to people, to employees, and that this works the other way around for them? In the joint initiative proposal already mentioned by Mrs Vermeij with the PvdA, to which Mr Ulenbelt has worked so hard, we made flex significantly more expensive by increasing the WW premium, by giving entitlement to a higher remuneration for dismissal and by giving birth to that right after six months. The PvdA was before this, but unfortunately, a few days after the election with a voicemail message got its signature from under this bill. The result is a mutilated version of the law. Now we see the consequences of that. With the prospect of flex remaining cheaper, it is simply more advantageous for many employers, such as ING, to fire flex workers before 1 July. This may seem like a transitional problem, but it is not; this is a structural problem. After one year and eleven months, the flex worker who is hired after 1 July will be out again. The revolving door keeps running, just a little faster than before. The Minister has promised a monitor, but when we look around, we see the problem. We don't need a monitor for that. It's like Christmas. You've seen it coming for a year. The Minister just needs to intervene. If we think that something is not right with each other, then we have laws and rules for it. That should also apply to this point. Does the Minister agree with us that if we make flex much more expensive, it will no longer pay employers to use flex in a timely manner? If ING now knows that as of 1 July, the WW premium and the discharge fees for flex will increase significantly, the outcome of that spreadsheet is not that ING wants flex again, but that ING will employ the current flex workers. Is the Minister prepared to settle this by urgently doubling the flex WW premium for all sectors and by introducing an emergency law to increase redundancy payments to one month's salary per year worked and the right to do so after six months, so that employers do not dump but hire people and that we do not have to have the same debate here in a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u37	Does the SP Group support the social agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u38	There are certainly elements in it that we support, but there are also elements in it which I detest, such as, to name but two, the dismantling of social services and of the WW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u39	We have just received a letter from the Labour Foundation, signed by all workers' organizations and trade unions. That letter states that they expect much from this law, which brings great changes, and that they support the social agreement and the implementation of this law. What is the response of the SP Group to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u40	I think Mrs Vermeij is very intelligent, but it is not so complicated to see that they can say that very easily because this is the law? This is the law. Their interpretations are clearly different. I see the spruce of the Minister and of the PvdA Group, but I have now become so wise because of the crisis and all the misery caused by damage and shame that I know that we bankers but also big employers will not stop with those good intentions, Mrs Vermeij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. The answer to the question of what would have happened to the temporary agency workers at ING if the internal memo had not been leaked is simply to be guessed: the persons concerned would have been put on the street prematurely without a transition fee. What is going to happen now that the memo has become known, is not so easy to describe. Because what exactly did ING announce yesterday, which was not a coincidence on the eve of this debate? 300 temporary workers receive compensation. However, these are only employees who have been working at the bank for more than two years, and apparently not those who fly out prematurely, precisely because they will soon be employed by the bank for two years. Another question is whether workers who have to leave will be prevented from seeing their own vacancy re-announced. Apparently, that was the case. And what does it actually mean that the compensation that ING has now promised will be arranged together with the temporary employment agencies, as we have read in the newspapers? So there are still a lot of questions. Does the Minister know exactly what has been promised by ING? If that is not the case, would he like to check it out as soon as possible? The fact that a company such as ING intends, or was, to fire people before the new law enters into force, for example in order not to have to pay a transition fee, shows a petty grocery mentality. I can't call it any other way. ING is a company where the top millions earn and the CEO gets a raise of four and a half tonnes. How much transition fees............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Minister may also make that calculation. ING must be able to pay this very easily, without compromising the company's profits or continuity in any way. I also have a few other questions for the Minister, which are partly in line with what my colleagues have already asked for. The issue of ING came to light "coincidentally," just as yesterday "coincidentally" came to light that the government itself is not free from sin either. Does the Minister know, approximately or exactly, how many more companies are doing these kinds of tricks to circumvent the transition fee? The Minister is alert and sometimes he gets angry. Does he, however, have an idea of the scale of the problem? And if he has that image, what can and will he do on that basis, except get angry? I also have a question about the role of employers. As we all know, in the social agreement, they have committed themselves to countering crackdown on flex work. The minister and also the trade unions reacted furiously to ING's leaked memo, but from the employers' side it remained very quiet. Normally Hans de Boer never keeps his opinion to himself, but I haven't heard from him about this at all. I know we received a letter from the Labour Foundation this morning. However, would it not be a good idea, as Mrs Schouten said earlier in the scheme, to ask employers to respond explicitly in such cases? They can then show that it is also their social agreement and that it is also their responsibility to promote good employership. Finally. In 2020, we will evaluate the laws. With the Hamer amendment, it has just been said that in three years' time at least we will be evaluating the chain clause. Wouldn't it be an idea to make that also apply to the transition fee? We could explicitly evaluate them earlier than we have planned, if only because we already know that it may not be going well in all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. ING acted extremely scandalously, according to Minister Asscher. The same day he called the top of the bank and came up with a solution: a tightening of ING's policy. Those who set the bar high for business should set the example for themselves. But what is my surprise? Yesterday it turned out that the government is no better. People work as temporary workers for eight years, are fired after three contracts to be hired back home after a few months to do the same work. While the Minister was there last week as the chickens to take ING very seriously, the Minister is very understanding. But if ING acted extremely scandalously, how does the Minister qualify the practices of the cabinet and of the government? I assume that the Minister is taking action as quickly as ING. So I assume he's already discussed with his colleagues in the cabinet that the government will immediately stop using this kind of revolving door construction. Can the Minister guarantee us today that no temporary workers will be dismissed from the government without a transition fee, while new flex workers will be hired for that work? Can the Minister promise that people who do regular work will be taken into permanent employment after two temporary contracts after two years? He asks companies, I ask him to take the same action with the government. We are right to call for a lot of employers' efforts to provide more security. However, the Work and Security Act is only half the story. It should also be much more attractive for employers to employ people. That is an assignment for the cabinet and for the trade union movement. The cabinet must ensure that taxes on labour finally go down. It should provide lower employers' contributions that make it more attractive to offer people a job. The trade union movement must also have the courage to look in the mirror. The number of workers under the collective agreement for construction has fallen from 170,000 to 100,000 in five years. It is also very attractive for a contractor to work withzzp'ers, if you have to meet 324 pages of collective agreement obligations for your staff. I also refer to agreements such as those in the collective agreement for primary schools. Schools are afraid of empty classes because they're gonna have too few replacements for a flu wave. According to the Minister, they can resolve all this perfectly in their collective agreement, but this collective agreement is subject to a two-year period of notice. In this collective agreement, workers who lose their jobs at 53 years of age receive supplementary benefits until retirement. Yeah, well, then it's not so crazy that schools are reluctant to offer a permanent job. If the collective agreement also fixes a third year of WW, it will make it even more expensive. This is at the expense of employees' salaries. It costs tens of thousands of jobs. The government itself isn't gonna do that anymore, is it? It is therefore too easy for the trade union to just point its finger at employers, no matter how right it was in this case. The collective agreement should become more attractive with more scope for tailor-made work and greater commitment to training and personal development, including beyond the sectoral boundaries. I am therefore looking at the recommendations of the young people of the trade union movement in ReflexLAB. They do want innovation. Only then will companies start hiring people again. What is the Minister going to do to help social partners modernise? Finally, I have a question about yesterday's letter. In it, the Minister writes that he will evaluate the chain determination after three years. During the examination of this law, the Minister indicated that he was going to keep his finger on the wrist very carefully. Can he repeat that promise? Is he going to intervene if there are unexpected unexpected effects? Mrs Schouten rightly pointed out a dilemma by interrupting. We have very good intentions with this law and we can ask employers to do everything they can to make this law a success. I am therefore not impressed by all kinds of lobbying activities to amend the law now. However, if it turns out that despite all these fine efforts and good intentions, laws do not work, we must also dare to look at them. Can the Minister promise that he will keep his finger on the pulse very actively and not wait for evaluations if there are any problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u43	I would like to come back to the example of the government that lets people work and fire on temporary contracts for years, simply because it is cheaper and the government has to make substantial cuts according to D66. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said this yesterday. Am I to understand that D66 is asking the Minister if these people will be employed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u44	Equal monks, equal hoods; I ask the Minister. If there's just permanent work, we don't want people to have temporary contracts for a permanent job for six years. Moreover, we should not set the bar high for companies if the government itself comes up with all kinds of reasons why it could not do so with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u45	But both at ING and in the example of the government mentioned yesterday at RTL News, there is structural work. Let us confine ourselves to the latter issue. For the sake of clarity for all the workers who are watching, I would ask Mr Van Weyenberg the following. Does D66 now stand for these people to join permanent service, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u46	I insist that this law be implemented in the letter and spirit by companies and by the government itself. The government has an exemplary role to play, and that's what I'm here for. So we do not want temporary agency workers to go out to be replaced by other temporary agency workers, while, for example, they have been doing the same regular work for six years, as in the example in yesterday's item. I'm against that. I therefore believe that the law should be implemented according to the letter and spirit and that we should make every effort to do so. The minister was strict on ING. He took action quickly. I now expect the same action to be taken on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u47	The result counts, of course. Should this action lead to the recruitment of workers both at ING and at the government? Mr Van Weyenberg can answer that question with a yes or a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u48	I'm not a staff director, but I expect the same bar to be applied to companies and the government. That seems extremely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u49	I would just say that there is a difference between business and government. It is sometimes very bad what happens in business and you can get very angry about that. However, one must hope that the law is properly implemented and, of course, monitored. In this case, which Mr Van Weyenberg and others are right to be very angry about, it is about the role of the government as an employer. You don't have to appeal to anyone for that, but you just have to show yourself the good employership you ask of others. That's not the same thing, is it? I'd say the bar is much higher for the government. Because they can just make sure that this kind of thing doesn't happen directly as an employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr Van Ojik is right. The government should set an example. That is why I did not agree that the Minister was very hard on ING, but that he responded with very weak lyrics to what is happening in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u51	But it is a good thing that the minister acted very hard against ING. It is a bit strange to remove these two things from each other now by saying that the government itself is doing very badly and that it is therefore not a good thing that the minister has reacted so hard to ING. It is very good that the Minister has reacted very hard to ING, but that obliges him to be a good employer himself, just as he demands from ING. That's the way it is. You can't cross those two things out against each other. Because when you're angry, you have to be consistent. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u52	I do not think Mr Van Ojik has understood me correctly. I'm sure that's because of me. I said that I understood that the Minister set the bar high, but this therefore gives him the responsibility to set the bar with the government just as high and perhaps even higher. That's what I argued. I think Mr Van Ojik and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u53	Not at all, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Chairman. I just heard, when I was driving to The Hague, a commercial from a temp agency on the radio. That agency called on employers to be alert, because the new Work and Security Act is coming and is going to change a lot as of 1 July. ING didn't need to get this call, because that bank already knew this. In the run-up to the law it appeared that suddenly a lot of flex workers were fired. Those workers may have been temporarily employed in any case, but the parallel with the date of entry into force of the law plus internal memos that came out gave the impression that this was not only a coincidence of circumstances, but also a deliberate action. The minister quickly picked up his phone and made a moral appeal to ING. ING responded to this later. I'm glad. However, I think and fear that this is one of the incidents that are coming out while many employers are looking at what they are going to do now that this new law is coming into force. I have already said in an interruption in Mrs Vermeij's speech that I think this is a dilemma. Not only the Chamber, but also the social partners have said that it is the intention of the law to strengthen the position of flex workers. That was the agreement in the social agreement and that is why we have laid down this in the Work and Security Act. The fact that employers are now looking at the letter of the law may be a consequence of that law. I wonder if the Minister has been in contact with social partners. We received a note from STAR this morning. To be honest, I was a little disappointed. I have received lobby letters from employers who want to get rid of the transition fee in the past week, and I think that this applies to colleagues too. We will then have to wait almost a week for a letter from the STAR stating that we still support the law. Has the Minister been in contact with the social partners to indicate that it is also their social agreement and that they are partly responsible for ensuring that the agreement is implemented in the spirit and not just in the letter of the law? I'd like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u55	This has already been mentioned in my contribution and in Mr Van Ojik's. Shouldn't employers also call on the employers' organisation to address its own members strictly? Maybe we can pass that on to the cabinet. I've been through the same thing this week as Mrs Schouten. Whether it's Horeca Nederland, LTO or all kinds of mediation industries, they report that the law is wrong. However, today we receive a letter on behalf of all employers stating that the law is correct, that it implements the social agreement and that they support it. How is that possible? Shouldn't this be pulled anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u56	This is an internal problem of the STAR, which seems to be speaking on behalf of all employers. Then we get the opposite signals from a number of branches that want to change parts of the law. I assume the social agreement is the basis of the law. That is how it has been constantly shared in the Chamber. The social agreement is between the social partners, employers and employees. There is therefore a responsibility to get in touch with their own supporters to act in the spirit of the law. If all these sectors were to send us letters, I would ask: as social partners, talk to the grassroots. That is also my question to the Minister. Did he also make a call to social partners? If so, does he think that there should be a clearer statement and movement on that side to ensure that the law is implemented as we intended? I have a number of specific questions which have already been put by my fellow Members. The most important question is how it is regulated by the government. We have received signals over the past week that the government is also involved in this. If you want to talk about shame, I'd call it shame. The government sets a standard. I fully agree with Mr Van Ojik that the government in this matter can no longer simply be levelled. If you want something as a parliament, the government should be the first to show that it is acting on it. How broad is this problem? What will the Minister do to change this if it really is? 1 July is fast approaching and we need to provide flex workers with security. The second question is what for the Minister is the upper limit until 1 July. He will probably say: we will evaluate the law and see how it works. In the meantime, many flex workers may have been fired, precisely by this law. Will the Minister monitor very closely what is happening towards July 1st? Will he talk to the sectors where he now sees an excessive peak in the number of redundancies, to see if there should be anything more to convince them of the intention of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. Angry, angry, angry: everyone's angry. It began with the anger of the minister, then the anger of ING and then the anger of MPs; almost everyone was angry. But the people that really matter, you hardly hear. These are the flex workers, thanks to this terrible law, which was dealt with in this Chamber last February and which I believe was adopted on 28 February 2014. Some employers have already recalled it: the government appears to be participating in the same practices that ING is guilty of. The flex workers are screwed. They have not been given any certainty at all by the imminent introduction of the Work and Security Act. It seems as if the law on unemployment and insecurity has been introduced. We are dealing with about 600,000 unemployed and 435,000 people in the welfare sector. The cabinet has created a great deal of uncertainty rather than security. Meanwhile, the government itself treats employees very badly. I come back to every debate on social employment: it is, of course, a question of reducing the burden. This cabinet and the previous coalitions for the budgets that were put together are champions of burden increase. The Netherlands suffers from this. All this anger I find the tears of the crocodile, or at least: I find that from the anger from above, not from the anger that lies at the bottom. It's crying for something you've demolished yourself, like a toddler. I would remind you that the PVV, the SP, the Party for Animals and 50PLUS last year were the only parties to vote against the introduction of this law. The PVV has said in the electoral programme and always, even last year, when it comes to dealing with this law, that we must maintain protection for dismissals and not shorten the WW further. This cabinet is actually creating champion welfare recipients. Unemployment is already high because of the high burden. Companies, not only large companies but also small and medium-sized enterprises, are affected by this law. They've already gotten the quota bill. They also receive additional anti-discrimination measures from this minister because of "experienced" discrimination. It's not about proven but experienced discrimination, so anyone who calls for discrimination can destroy a company. That's what this cabinet does. Oh, yeah. I forgot about women at the top. Creativity and diversity policy: it all breathes socialism and therefore destructiveness. This cabinet seems to hate the people who live here in the Netherlands, but it does not hate the people who do not yet live here. "Away with us, away with business" is the credo of this cabinet. I've just recalled that under the heading of destructiveness. As far as we are concerned, the only solution is to reverse this terrible law, but there is no basis for that in this Chamber. That's why I call it the crocodile's tears. This cabinet is working on the demolition of the Netherlands. In the meantime, it is in the process of telling the people that the "bed, bath and bread" is being arranged, but what it really does is to propagate "taxes, deception and begging staff" in this country. The Cabinet will destroy everything and eventually it will destroy itself. I wish them every success with that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. Disgraceful, according to Minister Asscher a week ago, when it appeared that ING was putting temporary workers on the street massively before 1 July in order to avoid legal risks. ING then accused the minister of uninformed screaming. However, after leaking an internal memo, ING turned out to have eggs for his money the same day. ING will act according to the letter and the spirit of the Work and Security Act, the statement was made. In the meantime, a new statement was issued yesterday indicating that temporary workers will be partially compensated. Can the Minister explain exactly what this all means and what changes after contact with ING? I believe that Mr Van Ojik has already raised a number of specific questions on this subject. After all, the letter and the spirit of this law can be interpreted differently. Shameful. It wasn't the first time this minister spoke firm words to employers when it comes to that Work and Security Act. The same happened with the retroactive effect of the transition fee for seasonal work. The Minister first indicated, even after questions from Mr Mulder, that it would not be a looming error in the law. He later drew that conclusion, under pressure from the Chamber, and in the meantime the law has also been adapted on this point in the treatment of the Law approach to bogus constructions. But the negative signals keep coming. Are we talking about painful start-up problems or a structural problem of the law? Mr Karabulut mentioned this a moment ago. In his letter we received yesterday, the Minister states that not everyone will be a winner of this law and that some people will lose their jobs as well, but the effects will be mostly beneficial. However, the many signals coming in from various sectors of people who are concerned may also suggest that in practice the operation will be different. Limiting chains to a period of two years and starting the transition fee from two years may increase the revolving door of the labour market. As Mr Karabulut pointed out, the rotating door is going to run a little faster rather than stop and people are being pushed into an accelerated revolving door instead of being pushed into a fixed orbit. Shameful. At ING, the Minister's "hit and run" strategy seems to have worked, but the question is: how often does it succeed again? How many companies are going to do exactly the same thing as ING's leaked memo outside the Ministry's sight? And what about the government itself? Yesterday, RTL News showed that government services themselves have been using temporary work structures for many years to avoid employment-related risks. The Minister spoke anointing words in response; "it will happen a few times" and "it is good to learn from that." What happened this time to the "shameful" or only to the ING and not to the mirror that the government itself is told? I find the difference in tone and pitch striking and that entails the risk of the feeling of double standards being measured. Then employers may also feel that the pot blames the kettle for seeing it black. This seems to me to be worrying, also in the context of the increasing tension already visible in the polder, where employers and employees are already much more opposed to each other. I do not think that a government that reacts as strongly to business and anointingly when it comes to public services itself is a good thing. So I would like a very clear response from the Minister in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u59	It is starting to bother me a little bit now that it seems that some parties are just talking about the tone, namely that you should do a little nicer and rather against employers and a little more sharply against the government. For me, it's about those employees. My question to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is as follows. Should the outcome of this debate be that the employees of ING, but also the government, will eventually be employed because of structural work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u60	The answer to Mrs Karabulut's question was in her own contribution. It itself indicated that it should be recognised that this law will not have the effect as it was said. So the outcome of this debate can be twofold as far as I am concerned. Or the minister has the same harsh tone and the same size as the government. Or he acknowledges that in practice the letter of this law has different effects than he indicates. This means that there will be a moderation of tone towards other employers because there are other effects in practice. So you should keep that mirror in mind, in the sense that this law does work in this area. Many amendments have been tabled in the debate on this law, including one by Mr Van Ojik and myself, which actually say: the effect, that bridge will not be there and dare to acknowledge it and adapt it to the law. So there are two possibilities, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u61	I'll keep that mirror in front of Mr. Heerma. He also sees the problem and admits it's there. We come up with the proposal to reduce the difference between flex and non-flex in such a way that it is simply no longer attractive for employers to work alongside temporary precarious contracts. We propose that this be done quickly so that those workers can actually be employed and that we do not discuss spirit, letter, tone or language here, but simply ensure good, honest work. Does Mr Heerma support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u62	I do not think there is any chance that I will support Mrs Karabulut's proposal in advance, because the difference between the CDA and the SP was already clear in the process of dealing with that law. It remains to be seen that we may be sharing with each other that we have doubts as to whether this law is pushing people into a permanent contract. The Minister insists that this law will do so, but in practice there is a great deal of evidence to be found for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u63	My colleague Bosma did the treatment on behalf of the PVV last year. I've been watching. I remember the CDA was just for this law. Can Mr Heerma explain why he was in favour of this law? He's playing opposition now, but then he joined the coalition as hard as he could.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u64	It's a very special definition of opposition that the PVV places here, as if you're opposition party if you're against any law. You're also an opposition party to make amendments during a legal process. Let us be honest: this is a very large law, which also has positive elements. We have tabled these amendments as a CDA. Several amendments have been tabled. Just now, when Mr Van Ojik was not here, I referred to the amendment that GroenLinks and the CDA put in together to bridge the gap between the flexible and the fixed contract by offering opportunities for multi-year contracts. We have tabled these amendments. We have taken this treatment very seriously. It is precisely in this area that we have proposed amendments, particularly in relation to the concerns that are at the heart of this debate. At the end of this discussion, we voted in favour of this law, taking into account everything. I think that the definition of opposition used by the PVV here is more appropriate in a fairytale parliament and not in the real parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u65	That was an answer to a question that had not been asked, but Mr Heerma also has his right to speak. Mr Heerma has voted in favour of this law "in all respects." So in the end, the CDA was just for this law. I would like to make it clear once again that Mr Heerma and the CDA are very often critical of what they have just voted for. That point must be made quite clearly. I would like to know from Mr Heerma what the most important points in that law he was for as a CDA politician were.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u66	Once again, while we are talking about mirrors, the PVV and Mr De Graaf should perhaps also look in the mirror at what is serious politics. You're not just an opposition party if you vote against every law. We have been very critical of this part of a very large law that meant the heart of the social agreement. We have also stated that such a social agreement, with so much support in the polder at that time, has power of expression for the CDA. Once again, if Mr De Graaf dares to say here that you can only criticise if you have voted against a law, then I wish him every success in this Parliament. I do not think that any other party in this Parliament has that position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr De Graaf, you are addressed directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u68	This is a personal fact. I'm being put in the mouth that I didn't take in the mouth. Mr Heerma may frame what he wants, but I only have one word for the CDA's position and that is 'hypocrite'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr De Graaf is free to do so. It's just a bit of a shame, when you bounce the ball, that you can take it in so bad weather, but that's what the PVV often signs in these kinds of debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is not fun. People get fired or their contract isn't renewed. This is annoying for the income and also for the clue that people derive from work and the pleasure that they often have in it. The VVD agrees that ING wants to act according to the letter and the spirit of the law. I'm glad they do. Yet ING's case also reveals something else. It's not just flex workers who go out, it's also people with fixed contracts. This is due to automation, a subject that we have often discussed. We have also said something about it in the debate on the budget. We shall see that the job for life is going to disappear and that the young people of today are also going to look at the public gallery for a life full of jobs. As a government, we need to think about how we make people resilient in the labour market. What are we doing about education, retraining, retraining and retraining, a whole career? That's what this ING case says. We welcome the fact that the Labour Foundation has sent a letter to the Chamber. Employers and employees together say that they want to comply with the social agreement. That seems logical to us: they also closed it. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is the time to take a good look at the reasons for these redundancies. Both entrepreneurs and employees report that they are occasionally unhappy about this law. Workers say my boss wants to hire me, but he's uncertain about the future and wants to fire me anyway, although I'm doing well. If you're not careful, you're not gonna get a win-win situation, you're gonna get a lose-lose situation. And that cannot be the intention of this law. That is why we say to the Minister: keep your finger on the wrist. That is also what we said in the budget debate. The Minister also did so when we were confronted with that looming error, the retroactive effect of the transition fee. We have all recognised this and the Minister has resolved this very neatly in our view. We must continue to think during the implementation of this law. We are also pleased that the Minister has promised that he will come forward in January with an idea of what this law means for seasonal workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr Mulder has said twice so far that he agrees that ING and the Labour Foundation want to implement the law according to the letter and the spirit. I have two questions about that. First of all, shouldn't that just be self-evident? Shouldn't a letter that states that just be superfluous? Secondly, does Mr Mulder agree with me that if the memo had not been leaked, ING would not have implemented the law according to the letter and the spirit? That's the problem, that's why we're standing here. We are not here because they do, which should be obvious, but because they were caught and then said: of course we are going to implement the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u72	It makes sense, in itself, that you execute the law by letter and spirit. In fact, I prefer that no laws are needed at all and that everyone in the Netherlands behaves properly. I find the issue of ING special. First a memo leaks out. ING says: we were not concerned with the Work and Security Act. Then I say, if that's the case, why change your policy? So you can say there's some kind of guilt confession in there. You can also say: ING wants to act as a good employer in the vein of "we do not have to pay the transition fee, but we still pay it." In that sense, I agree with Mr Van Ojik, who also raised the question of why ING is doing this. The fact that it has been done and that people say that they want to implement the law according to letter and spirit seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u73	So, if I understand correctly, Mr Mulder and I agree that it should not depend on whether a memo is leaking. That goes for the government exactly the same. I am thinking of the RTL story, which we all referred to. Something comes up in the news and then we are all, of course, willing to act on the letter and spirit of the law. It really should be the other way around. It's normal to do that, especially if the law is based on a social agreement you've made yourself. But even if it isn't, even if it's a law you don't agree with at all, you still have to respect the law to the letter and the spirit. That is how we normally deal with each other in the Netherlands. This also applies to companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u74	This is a rhetorical question. We are pleased that the Minister is looking at the effects during the implementation of the law. If we see problems, we must enable companies that want to act in the spirit of the law to do so. For example, an exception has been made for the football sector. Keep looking at those sectors. Always look at what is happening in the sectors and help companies that want to comply with the spirit of the law. My colleague Karin Straus and I, like Mr Van Weyenberg and his colleague, have asked questions about primary education. How does the law work out there? Mr Van Weyenberg has spoken about this and I can only underline it. There's a fear of a flu epidemic. Do we not run the risk that, if the next flu epidemic breaks out, we will have to deal with empty classes through this law? The Minister replied that schools can work with a flexpool. However, I hear there are waiting lists for that. The minister also said that someone else could stand in front of the classroom. Yeah, but the principal can't just stand in front of the class. He's got a school to run, too. The Minister then said that this could be agreed in the collective agreement. I think that's a little vulnerable. You then make yourself dependent on the setting up of unions. I hope so, but I always say hope is not a strategy. So I would like to hear a response from the Minister. This brings me to the collective agreements. I recently read a column titled "They don't get it," written by Han Fleuren, a tree grower. He said: I have to fire people; they don't want that at all, and I want to keep them. So it's a lose-lose situation. I asked him, "Can't you settle that in the collective agreement?" Yes, he said, I'm trying to, but when I do, the union says: hey, the employers want a point; but then we have another point on the other side. So the union doesn't seem to be thinking along. Finally, my question to the Minister is: can the Minister call on the trade unions to ensure that where this law does not work well but is good will, these people are also helped by the trade unions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u75	Does Mr Mulder share the view of Mrs Vermeij of the PvdA Group that the forces that are now doing structural work in the government should be engaged in uncertain, flexible contracts every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u76	At the moment, I do not share any views of anyone regarding the government. I have therefore also asked what is going on in the case of interruption. I want to know before I say "shame" and before I go to RTL News. Which sectors of government are concerned? What are the persons involved? On what scale is it happening, why is it happening and what are the financial consequences? We liberals are also small governments, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u77	Oh, yes, Mr. Mulder, yes. I find this rather scandalous. It is known that this group of employees in this concrete department at the Rijksbouwbouwdienst is simply doing structural work, but every year with all kinds of tricks is kept on the line. They are then dumped again, then rehired. And the VVD cannot agree with the coalition partner that these people should be employed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u78	Oh, oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u79	What, Mr. Mulder? These workers deserve clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u80	You're trying...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u81	Mr Mulder, I'm always trying to prevent people from speaking through each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u82	I thought it was about the content. That's why I asked those questions. But at the end it was said that you cannot agree as a coalition. Then I thought: I'm talking about the content, but Mrs Karabulut is trying a little bit to break up Mrs Vermeij and me. Well, good luck with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u83	On one point, I cannot quite make chocolate out of Mr Mulder's input. He asks a lot of questions about ING. Does he agree with me that there is a major discrepancy between the Minister's firm words about ING when he immediately said "it is scandalous" and the Minister's very mild response when it came to the government itself? I found that to measure with double standards. How does Mr Mulder feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u84	I don't tend to use big words quickly. I wouldn't do that to ING, and I wouldn't do that now. I just want to know what the facts are first. The Minister's words are on the Minister's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u85	Sure, but today we're talking about the ING case, among other things. In a debate like this, it is of course important to know what parties think. Did Mr Mulder think the Minister was a little too weak about the government now, or did I just hear him say that he thought the Minister was too strict for ING? I disagree with the latter, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u86	We are patiently waiting for this debate to continue. For the rest, every bird sings the way it's beaked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u87	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Minister has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u88	Madam President. Previously: if I sometimes grab a handkerchief, it is not because I breathe because of the debate itself, but because of a very slight cold that is bothering me at the moment. But I am very happy to be able to have this debate now, because it is about the introduction, the entry into force of an incredibly important law, which brings about a lot that we all expect, but which we all look at and say: that law must also do what we expect from it. The concrete reason was the coverage of how ING would deal with the Work and Security Act in the light of the reorganisation there. Earlier, ING had said that it would do well to comply with the letter and spirit of the law. I appreciate the fact that he said yesterday that that also gets meaning. Those statements saw on two points, namely that ING is not going to fire people for a job that stays there and that ING will not be obliged to provide temporary agency workers whom he unfortunately felt that a striking and justified remark by Mr Mulder should be dismissed, but would already grant a transition fee if they had been entitled to it, would the Work and Security Act have already been in force. So I have not agreed with ING to stop firing, as Mrs Karabulut asked. It can't be. That doesn't fit either. An employer, a company remains responsible for its own health and must therefore also be able to make sometimes painful decisions, subject to the rules of the game, the laws and regulations. Mr Mulder is right when he says that employment in the financial sector is under pressure for all kinds of reasons, such as automation. Then you have to do things in accordance with the rules of the game and in a neat way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u89	But if those rules aren't right, then you have to change them to avoid this. I understand that the Minister cannot arrange this for all individual employers and employees in the Netherlands, otherwise, of course, we would have done so by now. I got an e-mail this morning from an employee of ING. He's been working as a flex worker, temp, payroller for nine years, but he'll be out on June 30th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u90	I cannot now discuss a personnel file of an ING employee with the Chamber and make statements about it that make any sense whatsoever. I had begun my speech to answer the questions raised by the Chamber in connection with the reports, and I wanted to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u91	I got the impression that this is not the case, but apparently it is not the case that the Minister suddenly wanted to stop a very normative, beautiful story about ING, while we have to talk about the Work and Security Act, which means that people with temporary contracts are cheaper because of the WW premium and the dismissal compensation, which has led employers to show this kind of behaviour and will also show up after 1 July. Is the Minister going to solve that gap in the law with an emergency bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u92	In this debate, questions were asked about ING, the Work and Security Act and the government. I would like to answer those questions as they should be in the debate. I was at the fourth sentence of my speech. I'm gonna answer all those questions, too. Perhaps it would be useful for Mrs Karabulut to look at it afterwards, in second term or by interrupting, whether she is satisfied with that response. Mr Van Ojik and others asked: what exactly do the agreements with ING look like and is that statement yesterday a result of that? The answer is: no, that is not a result of that. ING, like all other companies, remains responsible for how it deals with its staff. I have made agreements with ING about the statement that came out earlier, namely: we embrace the Work and Security Act and will carry it out according to letter and spirit. Apparently, ING itself received a lot of questions about how to do that. People have felt compelled to bring this out. I appreciate that, because I like it when a company does it that way. I believe that Mr Heerma outlined that timeline and the various expressions we have seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u93	I would like to touch on this point in order to perhaps take away a misunderstanding. I understand that what ING communicated yesterday was not the result of an agreement with the Minister. I thought that, given the debate we are having, it would be good for the Chamber to know exactly what ING has promised and has not promised. I asked the Minister whether he might be able to function as a trait-d'union and whether he could tell us exactly what these agreements mean and what they are not, so that the people at ING also know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u94	That's clear. What I understand is that they want to honour the commitment to the letter and spirit of the law in two ways. No firing people at a job vacancy that actually continues to exist was one of the ways. The second was the temporary workers who are unlucky enough to see their contact end just before 1 July, without obligation to grant a transition fee. I understand very well that Mr Van Ojik wants to know more about this. We have no right to do so, but I would like to act as a trait-d'union and pass that question on to ING.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u96	All parties have addressed the question of what we have seen happening in the labour market as a whole in recent years, in recent decades and now, in the run-up to that new law. There is no denying that the labour market in the Netherlands has become increasingly flexible in recent years. This has brought us a great deal of good and has brought great flexibility to the economy. However, it also has disadvantages, especially for workers who have been in precarious employment for a very long time. That is why the cabinet, supported by the Chamber, has said that a new balance must be found. Flexibility in the economy is part of this time, but people with insecure contracts or insecure jobs also need rights. That could be a transition fee upon termination. But it can also be: not endlessly stuck in such a contract when it comes to structural work. We have seen that in the coalition agreement and in the social agreement, and then in the Work and Security Act. This is therefore an important step towards an economically driven trend, of which the Chamber and the Cabinet have said they want to change course. In this context, Mrs Vermeij, Mr Heerma and Mrs Karabulut asked whether there was actually a structural problem. If you look at blown-through flex.............................................................................................................................. The Work and Security Act is also intended for this purpose. On top of that, you get the question: is the law right? That question has also been raised here. Every law gets meaning when you start acting like it. Each law also has the characteristic that, if one does not want to behave towards it, opportunities can be sought, and sometimes found, to organize around it. We have seen this in the past in the '90s law flex and certainty. That law stated as a chain clause: after three years a fixed contract, but in collective agreements you may deviate. What did you see happen? After three months, people could be rehired. It was used massively. Here and last year when the law was being dealt with, the question was whether we had the incentive set in such a way that it would work better. We think so; therefore we have passed the law. We have said that we are going to check things out. We're going to evaluate that chain assessment after three years. The balance must produce more results for more people than the current situation in law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u97	The essence of the problem is that the law is implemented in letter and spirit. Because that law states that flex workers are cheaper and that for a period of two years there is no remuneration for dismissal. These are all holes that we would have closed in a joint initiative law. The question before us is not whether the Minister dislikes this furiously, but whether he is going to change the law, so that the flex workers actually come into service when there is simply permanent work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u98	Once again, I am going to answer all of Mrs Karabulut's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u99	The Minister said a few things on this point, and I missed this. That's why I'm putting the question to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u100	Perhaps at the end of my speech it would be better to see what you are still missing. Otherwise, I will continue to say that I will return to that in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u101	This isn't a complicated question, is it? Is the Minister going to fix the law or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u102	Your question is not complicated, but neither is the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u103	But that's not your concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u104	No, that's not my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u105	I'd like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u106	The Minister said he was going to give that, though further on in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u107	The porte of my reaction to your interruptions was: you will receive an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u108	Please continue with your speech. It's gonna come up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u109	Emile Roemer gave this law a 1 because of the WW section. Let's not beat around the bush. He also gave the law a "A" twice: for dismissal and for flex. I would remind you, because Mrs Karabulut will also attach great importance to the fact that everyone knows the history of the law and the initiative proposal. Two A's from Emiel Roemer. I think it is only a matter of arguing for a party culture when members of the political groups think very differently about it. But it gave me the confidence that there are good elements in that law. I answer Mrs Karabulut's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u110	Sure. The WW breakdown is unacceptable. There are certainly good elements in the law that deserve an A. I do not disagree with my group chairman on that, perhaps unfortunately for the Minister. But that's not what we're talking about today. We are talking today about whether there is a Minister for Social Affairs and Employment here who recognises that there are major imperfections in the law and who is going to turn his moral indignation into deeds by fixing that law. That is the question before us. I'd appreciate it if I could get an answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u111	Quite differently from what Mrs Karabulut seems to think, I am glad that she agrees with her group chairman on this point and that she also sees tens in the law. That just gives a more nuanced picture of the debate we are having here, a debate that I want to have openly. After all, a law always has negative effects and you have to try to get a good balance. That is what this debate is about. The meaning of the law must therefore be that, in the case of structural work, temporary workers are not replaced by other temporary workers. That's the spirit of the law we're talking about. By the way, that is something that the judge, under the old legislation, has already stopped. So that principle is not so strange. These are called euphemistic labour law risks, but this is not a labour law risk, but a labour law fact: in structural work, people are not replaced by new temporary workers. That is why I call it so-called occupational risks. The fact that, after a certain period of time, an employee is eligible for a fixed contract and has a certain degree of legal protection, in the sense that there must be a reasonable basis to terminate his contract, is in itself a very normal starting point for our labour law. That does not mean that I close my eyes or wish to close my eyes to reality. There are employers who do not behave in accordance with that intention of the law. We also see this in the run-up to entry into force. Does this mean you have to come to the conclusion that the law isn't right? That was a question from Mrs Karabulut. That seems premature to me. I do not think that ING's behaviour is a testament to good long-term thinking. It looks only at costs and not at the proceeds of the commitment with those workers who do structural work. This can also have a price, perhaps not a financial price in the short term, but a price in terms of loyalty and working atmosphere. However, it is still up to the individual employer to decide who he is or who he is not employing. You can say that it is a structural problem for employers to dismiss workers for the creation of the right to the transition fee, but that conclusion really comes too early. In this respect, I would also refer to this morning's letter from the Labour Foundation, which reiterates its support, on behalf of all employers and all employees in the Netherlands, for the agreements contained in the social agreement to be endorsed. That does not alter the fact that you will now, in the run-up to the introduction of the law, see calculative behavior. For the time being, however, I think it is premature to conclude that the law that has not yet entered into force is not proper. There are dilemmas; Mrs Schouten is quite right to outline them. What if we say in a few years' time that we don't think the balance is good enough? Then you get to deal with that dilemma, because then you can reason on two sides: you can say that there is still too much protection or you can say that the protection is not strict enough. It is not for nothing that this law is a result of a social agreement in which employers and employees have tasted each other's kidneys. We need more protection, but we also want an employer to have the courage to hire someone. There has to be a better balance than the balance there was. That should also work in practice. That dilemma is correct, and I think we have made good agreements on how we are going to assess whether that law will work properly. In this respect, let me reiterate the commitment that we should keep our finger on the pulse and look at what that law does. We've proven that that's how it works before. We also need to protect ourselves a little bit. You're gonna hear a story, you're gonna see a company, there's news. We have to deal very carefully with the legislative work done by the Chamber. You don't have to make any changes to that on the basis of a few incidents. We need to force ourselves to handle that process properly. An early evaluation has been agreed. We're holding the finger on the wrist. If we share the view that something must be done, then I am not going to get out of the way, let there be no misunderstanding about that, but we must not jump to such conclusions too quickly, however tempting it may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u112	An early evaluation has indeed been agreed, but if you interpret Mrs Hammer's amendment very strictly, that only applies to the chain determination. Would it not be a good idea to take it more broadly and at least make the transition fee part of that evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u113	At the request of Mrs Vermeij in an AO, I promised the Chamber that it would give an impression of the progress of the introduction of this law on the budget. I admit that at that time we are also talking about what the evaluation will look like after three years. I am not opposed in advance to pulling it a little wider. I do think we should stick to our own rules by such a large law and evaluate it after five years. In this case, there was a good reason to evaluate this document earlier, because of the high sensitivity of reactions to the chain determination. I do not reject Mr Van Ojik's request in advance. He's not asking me to say yes already. In January, when we retrieve the first images of the course of the introduction, let's cut that knot together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u114	For the sake of clarity, I would have no objection if the Minister had already said yes. Because of this high sensitivity, we have opted for Mrs Hammer's amendment to the chain clause. The lesson of this ING affair is precisely that the transition fee is apparently also a very sensitive issue. We can conclude that. This could require the Minister to align, in principle, the chain definition and the transition fee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u115	That I am sensitive to Mr Van Ojik's argument may be demonstrated by the fact that I am not holding a mirror to the Chamber and say: you have agreed to evaluate after five years, except for the chain determination. I think his argument is legitimate. However, my suggestion to the Chamber would be as follows. We do not have to decide today what this evaluation looks like; that would even be unwise. It is only after we have retrieved that dragnet with initial images that we have to consider whether the argument that Mr Van Ojik is now putting on the mat should indeed lead to this enlargement. I'm not against it in advance. I'm coming to the government. Let me first say something about the tone of the debate. In my opinion, Mr Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg, and certainly also Mrs Karabulut, said that there was a discrepancy in tone between ING's comments and last night's statements at RTL News. I must say that I have not yet been able to see my own performance at RTL. So I have not yet been able to evaluate it, but let me be sporting in this: if the speakers said I was too weak, I assume that they are right. Next time, I'll do it tighter and sharper. I am always inclined not to say that in all cases we are going to talk with flour in our mouths, because imagine that I will not do it properly with RTL. No, I think the speakers mentioned are right: if something is wrong, you should name it. Disgrace should apply to all forms of injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u116	A correction: it is not the tone that matters to me; on the contrary. I am concerned about the credibility of this minister. He is quite right to be outraged by ING and rightly speaks of it as a disgrace. The Minister is right to say that he is outraged when the government, he himself, has butter on his head. That is good; we agree on that, but the Minister must now come up with solutions. If the Minister does not do so, it is not only shameful that it should remain words; it is sad and sad that the Minister who says he wants to improve the position of flex workers allows employers to continue dumping because flex workers are cheaper. Then we have this same debate again and again, perhaps in a year and a half. I therefore call on the Minister once again to take action and to ensure that flex becomes more expensive and cheaper, so that companies no longer dump flex workers. Is that what the Minister's gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u117	That means that the answer I just gave was not addressed to Mrs Karabulut but to Mr Heerma and Mr Van Weyenberg, because they were indeed talking about the tone. I also go into the content, the government as an employer; there should be no misunderstanding about that. I heard a certain criticism in the questions about the tone. Then I have to name that criticism first and be equestrian in it. Then we can have the debate on the content together. Otherwise, the way you hear my speech remains in the way. That makes a lot of sense, too. There should be no misunderstanding about the attitude of the government itself: there is also a need for cultural change in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u118	May I now, after the eighteenth attempt, get an answer to my question? Will the Minister now amend the law and take action or will he continue to talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u119	I have already answered several of Mrs Karabulut's questions, but no doubt not all of them. I'm sure that'll work. I would like to continue to answer the questions about the government as an employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u120	Will you come back to this point in your speech, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u121	I will certainly come back to the question of whether we should change the law. I have already said a few things about this. Maybe I said that too much sub rosa or maybe it was too implicit. I have indicated that we are not going to evaluate for nothing. We're gonna see what that law does. If you find that interesting, you find the conclusion that the law needs to be amended already prematurely. It would therefore have been possible to hear a pre-announcement of the answer to the question of whether I am going to change the law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u122	Well, then answer me right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u123	You could call that an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u124	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u125	The government as an employer; let it be clear that there is also a need for cultural change in the government itself. The government, too, has, of course, experienced this development in recent decades. The government is a great employer and must therefore also use the Work and Security Act according to the letter and the spirit. I am very pleased that a colossal majority in the Chamber also says that the letter and spirit of the law should apply to everyone. We are already working on this. Payrolling as a kind of cheap alternative to structural work is already being built. I started the House project in order. It looks at my own ministry: how exactly do we deal with the letter and the spirit of the law? This is also discussed with the other departments. So this is a very justified appeal and it must be done. By saying that things are not going well at once, I wanted to argue that a change in culture is indeed needed. This is created by a new law, by drawing attention to this, by addressing each other and by the principle in practice that in structural work flexible contracts are not applied over and over again. Is this the last time we will have such a debate following an incident? Probably not, but I welcome that. I also think you shouldn't run away from that. Thus such a law also gets meaning and so you can see that it is not entirely self-evident and that it is not all easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u126	I welcome the words about the tone, which I did find too weak. I actually heard the Minister say that was not the intention, even though he has not yet looked back on the broadcast. Well, then, of course, I'm curious what happened. I understand yesterday was a busy night for the minister, but still. On the evening of ING, he immediately called ING. Did the Minister immediately call Mr Blok and say: we really can't have this, we're going to make a letter to the Chamber now to tell him how we're going to do this? The Minister mentions a number of actions, but I am very curious to hear now from the cabinet that this kind of real revolving doors is simply going to be a thing of the past. As far as I am concerned, ING has responded to the criticism of ING's policy with the same speed as ING, also at the request of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u127	That's why I wanted to say first of all that I take it unseen that I wasn't strong enough at that. No, I didn't call Blok last night about the issue. There has been contact with his department today. Block doesn't come into the picture for nothing. He is responsible for the employers' role of the government. Often others are responsible for that, so it is not direct. He is also not the head of staff of the Tax Administration, but he clearly plays a role in this and would also like to have the debate with the Chamber about how the government does it as an employer. Yes, he fully supports it, in letter and spirit. He realizes that this isn't going to happen by itself and that we need to do something about it. Here and there it will have to lead to changes, and that is soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u128	Still, it feels very uncomfortable. After the very big words about ING, it is now "we are going to look" and "Minister Blok." I have a very specific question. Why don't we just get a very clear letter from the cabinet for the second term, telling us how the undesirable things are going to belong to the past, perhaps even in anticipation of the new law, as is happening with ING today? I understand the Minister can't guarantee a steady job for everyone. He doesn't want to wake up that illusion, and neither do I. But if, in letter and spirit, he demands immediate action from ING, then the cabinet must show just as forcefully, and as far as I am concerned today, that the government is using exactly the same measuring bar?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u129	Of course, that is not possible: a letter for the second term on "the undesirable things." I'd like to write letters about "the undesirable things," but that's too general. I did not say for nothing that we should also carry out the letter and the spirit as a government and that there is a project for that. I am also happy to inform the House about this together with Mr Blok. I'm fine with that, but there's no logic to say that in the next half hour there should be a letter about "the undesirable things." I really don't think that's real either. The question has also been asked how big the problem is. As far as I'm concerned, every employee is relevant in this, so I don't want to take it away if it's just a very small number. But you don't know that exactly. It also really depends on how employee X deals with this on behalf of the government, the Tax Office or the RVO. It's not something you do for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u130	I find that remarkable, and frankly not decisive enough. At ING the minister was on the phone the same evening: now action! And now the Minister says there's a project going on. That law was passed a year ago. The Minister also spoke in great terms, and rightly so. I will really call on the Minister in the second term to take concrete action quickly. Equal monks, equal hoods.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u131	I'll wait and see. Mr. Chairman. A cover that is needed...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr Heerma, on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u133	It is good that the Minister here, having not seen RTL, acknowledges that it is important that he takes the same tone in both cases. The fact is that the tone has been set. There is a lot of fuss about this law in employers' countries, according to all the letters already referred to in the first term. The employers have seen and heard this after all. That can increase the tension in the polder and the Minister does not want that. The Minister also has that responsibility in his statements. That is why I am once again asking Mr Van Weyenberg's question. The Minister has indicated that this tone may not have been the right one, and I am going to pay more attention to that from now on. Then we need a decisive follow-up to show that the deed is added to the word, to take away the tone that has been set and which can bring undesirable effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u134	I very much agree with that. I was also in the process of sketching out those decisive actions, which were not all started today but have been used in part before. What I don't go along with is a letter for the second term about the undesirable things. That doesn't have to do with a good response to things you don't like anymore. That has to do with... I can't qualify that anymore, but I can't meet it. That was the port of that negative answer. A cultural change as necessary and also with the Work and Security Act, will never take place overnight. Such a change is gradual and there are forerunners and people who are left behind. However, there are not only negative reactions. You will also see the first signs of companies and sectors looking at how they can make this work in their business or sector. They look at how they can make the balance sheet laid down in the law work well for their organisation or business as well as for their employees. In the letter I mentioned the collective agreement VVT and the collective agreement Hospitals, because they clearly explain in different ways how this could be done. That is not free, because it is also paid for. An agreement has also been made in the collective agreement Recreation. A number of collective agreements and the provisions in force in these agreements continue to apply, but you will see more and more in the coming years that sectors are going to give the law a left-wing or right-wing meaning in their agreements. They won't just "hold on to the law." That seems to me exactly the intention. The first signs indicate that there is also a cultural change and that it is not just a legal change published in the Official Journal. The law itself is crucial in this, but not enough if culture also needs to change. That is why the function of a debate such as this is also being discussed, employers are looking into it and those questions are being asked in the workplace. There will be an extensive evaluation, after three years an evaluation on the chain determination and in the meantime we will keep our finger on the pulse. It is good to have a clear vision today of what we had in mind with this law and what that means, including for the government. The ARAR still applies, of course, to a large part of the direct government workers, with so far other elements around chain determination and so on. It would be good to look at that, but that is something that needs to be deepened with Block. We want government employees to look more like other employees. Then, of course, the Work and Security Act applies. However, that is still an issue, not because you have to act as a decent employer, but because it can have consequences for the way it is expressed. But we're holding the finger on the wrist. Mrs Karabulut asked if I would be willing to increase the WW premium for flex workers in order to make greater use of the price difference instrument. That's not a weird question. In the coalition agreement there is also a hook made for that. It could be possible. However, I think you should give the Work and Security Act itself a chance first. I do not rule out the possibility that in the future you would want to use such a rather violent horse's tool. However, I do not want to do so until the law is in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mrs Karabulut has had to wait for her answer and would like to ask a question about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u136	Of course, I think it is very good that the Minister wants to take a look at it. But I don't just want to look, I want to do it. If the Minister were to deal with this urgently, it would be unattractive for ING, for example, but also for other companies to fire people. In fact, it is becoming more attractive to simply reintegrate structural work instead of flex, because we also want to reduce the premiums for permanent staff. In addition, if we were to grant the redundancy allowance per month and allow it to start immediately, companies would not have the incentive to set aside someone for free after one year and eleven months and for nothing, without any compensation, as currently laid down in the law. Is the Minister gonna take care of this urgently, so we don't get all these people kicked out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u137	No, because I already indicated that I have no intention of changing the law now. That would also not be in line with the debates on these elements that this Chamber has had over the past year. I did consider whether that would be possible in the future. It's possible. However, not for nothing was chosen not to do it now, but through the Way of the Work and Security Act. This also comes from a balance of interests and an element of the social agreement. I think you should give that law a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u138	But that's the law. If you fill out the spreadsheets now, the law will make temporary workers much cheaper than permanent workers. When one calculates whether to keep someone or not, and throwing someone out costs nothing and keeping someone costs the transition fee, then the Minister knows as well as I do whose advantage this is in the hands of spreadsheet managers. That's just how it works economically. The flex forces will be dumped and that will continue in the near future. I would therefore urge the Minister once again not to look away and turn his moral indignation into action to prevent people from being dismissed in the short term. Action!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u139	I hear this argument and I understand it very well, but I think it is a bit too simple a representation of the facts, apart from whether you call people "spreadsheet managers" or not. The consideration of whether or not to employ or retain people and the form of contract for them cannot be summarized as briefly as just happened. There's a lot more to it than that. There's a lot more stakes attached to it. Employers do have an interest in experienced forces for work that needs to be done. I do not think it is appropriate to portray all employers as merely calculating spreadsheet managers. A new balance must be struck and incentives must be put in place. You can't do that just by using the price incentive. It is being used because, after all, there will be a transition fee for flexible work, but it has to be done by looking for the balance. That is what the social partners have done, and that is what we have done in the Work and Security Act. That law will enter into force on 1 July. I think it is genuinely premature today to draw such a far-reaching conclusion about that law. Mr Mulder asked on behalf of the VVD about the issue of children in schools when there is a flu epidemic. We recently saw a school director who said to the parents: in November I will send the children home if that happens. I have indicated in reply to the questions put by Members Mulder, Straus, Van Weyenberg and Van Meenen that there are various possibilities for schools to resolve this, including through temporary contracts. Think of internal flexibility, replacement pools, making use of the possibility of derogations in collective agreements, call contracts or temporary agency workers. Certainly, collective agreements are necessary for that part of the collective agreement. It takes two to tango. You both have to be willing to do it, and so you have to act responsibly. I'd like to make that call, too. Even if there is no collective agreement at present, there are several ways of solving this problem. I do not think it is reasonable, as a school director, to frighten the parents, even though there are opportunities to solve this. That's the responsibility of the school. The law applies to everyone, including the school. I'd like to help with this. My people are doing the same thing. They are in contact with the PO Council and with the educational associations. They are also always willing to talk to individual school boards about the possibilities that exist. However, this also includes a call in the other direction. Just look at the possibilities instead of immediately venting the indiscretions in the most tragic scenario of children who are sent home deprived of education. That seems to me to be quite premature. Does it not make sense, then, Mr Van Weyenberg asks that schools do not want to offer permanent jobs, in the light of the established collective agreement? There is a responsibility for both parties to conclude a collective agreement which allows for the possibility, à la hospitale or VVT, that employers and employees can also carry out this new balance sheet of the Work and Security Act in practice. There will always be flexible work in education. That's not wrong either. Disease is typically something you need flexible work for. The peak at the IRS has just been mentioned. That is also typical of what you always need flexibility for. So, please, let us not pretend that flexibility itself is evil. It's part of the modern economy. What you want to change is that all risks and all uncertainty are shifted to a particular category of workers, whereas in fact it is structural work. We agree on that, too. What is going to happen with regard to the social partners in order to modernise collective agreements? We are going to discuss this further, and a debate has been requested on this. There's going to be a round table too. I promised a letter about this for the summer. That's all procedural. Of course, it is important that the social partners, employers and employees, who have central and decentralised responsibilities in this area, themselves explore the ways in which they can meet each other. If it is only seen as a mutual loss-loss scenario, little good comes out of it. In view of the tradition of the Dutch polder, I am also optimistic that employers and employees can discover common interests where they did not see them before and that they will therefore be able to assume their responsibilities for changes that are deemed desirable in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u140	I asked the Minister very explicitly whether he had had any contact with the social partners. Can they at least promote action in the spirit of the law? Did the Minister have those contacts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u141	Certainly, there has been contact with the social partners. This happens regularly and now also in connection with the coverage of ING. The employers were worried. They were wondering if I was too sharp. I have indicated, always quoting Mulder, that every bird sings as it is beaked. However, I have also said that they themselves have the role and the task of not only highlighting the things they find difficult to do with the new law, but also of helping entrepreneurs and large companies, now that the law is almost there, to introduce it in a responsible manner. I can also taste that spirit in this morning's letter from the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u142	This was a warm encouragement to the social partners. But how are they actually going to fill that role? Does the Minister have any leads on that? So far, I see mostly letters coming in from branches that want the law to be watered down again, if you look at it that way. However, the law was a joint agreement between the social partners. How does the Minister bring these two things together? What are the social partners supposed to do to their supporters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u143	I can see that, too. Mrs Schouten's statement is uncontested. We are indeed seeing a persistent stream of requests from individual sectors: can't it be a little sister or a little something like that? I do not think that you should want to ban the sectors or that I should fall over them, but I do see it. What I would like and see from that, but what could be even stronger, is that all the social partners together, united, show how to apply the law. It is stronger if they show that in collective agreements than if it is only letters or words. I mentioned two collective agreements, but it would be nice if ten collective agreements could be added with good examples. My call and request is mainly to try. Cao's are not closed at the central table, but decentralised. I realize that very much. It remains the responsibility of employers and employees. It would be good if they showed by way of collective agreements that they mean business and that they are working together with the Work and Security Act. For one sector it is more difficult than for the other, but I believe that there is a golden opportunity to fulfil the responsibility for their own agreement in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u144	Let me come back to the role of the government as an employer. The Minister could have even more influence on that. Does the Minister support the principle that the government as an employer should not, in principle, allow flex forces to carry out structural work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u145	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u146	So that's what we can do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u147	I have just said that in the answer. The government also needs flexibility, but structural work should not be allowed to be done endlessly by people with flex contracts. If you hire someone, it's perfectly normal to start with a temporary contract. I'm not saying you have to offer people a fixed contract from day one, but structural work just needs to be done nicely. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u148	This brought an end to the government's first term of office. Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u149	With a view to tabling motions, I request a suspension of more than five minutes before we start with the second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u150	I note that there is no objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u151	Mr. Chairman. This debate makes it clear that we are in an intermediate stage on the road to a law. What the law will bring, and what employers, governments and large companies will do in the run-up to that law, is also mixed up in this debate. Since we have also discussed the matter at length with the government, I shall table a motion. I'm just gonna start with that given the time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the cabinet, like social partners, aims to provide more perspective for flex workers with the Work and Security Act;]] [[However, it appears that some employers do not act according to the letter and spirit of the law;]] [[it is right that such employers should be addressed by the Cabinet;]] [[Considering that the government itself is obliged to offer flex workers more perspective as an employer;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the government sets a good example in this regard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Vermeij and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u152	I would like to refer briefly to the brief debate between Mrs Schouten and the Minister on the role of the social partners. In the letter we received this morning at the request of Mr Schouten, the Foundation states that it is aware that the Work and Security Act may sometimes lead to major changes in its implementation. In this connection, he also implicitly states that he has an important role and role to play in providing the right information and the right examples. I mentioned some of them in my text on collective agreements, in order to point out to employers how this could be done and how it could be handled properly so that flex workers would have more security after 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u153	Mr. Chairman. I propose two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the inflow risk in the WW for flex workers is four times higher than for employees on an indefinite contract of employment;]] [[Whereas, by differentiation of the premium, the contribution paid is better suited to the seizure of the unemployment fund and encourages employers to give workers an open-ended contract of employment;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce, for all sectors, a distinction between fixed-term and indefinite contracts whereby, in a budget-neutral manner, the premium for fixed-term workers is twice the premium for employees with an indefinite contract and to fix it in a General Administrative Measure after it has been submitted to both Chambers of the States General,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the failure to grant redundancy compensation to workers on temporary contracts of less than 24 months creates inequality;]] [[Whereas the level of the remuneration for dismissal is itself a preventive means of preventing a light discharge;]] [[noting that, in anticipation of the entry into force of the law, employers would like to avoid entitlement to redundancy compensation;]] [[calls on the Government, by means of emergency legislation, to align the level of dismissal compensation with the standards applicable in case law and the current canton court formula;]] [[invites the Government also, by means of emergency legislation, to provide for the right to a redundancy allowance for workers on temporary contracts for more than six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut and Mr Ulenbelt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u154	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I should like to say that I am sorry that, despite all the moral indignation and the utterance of shame, the Minister is not acting when it comes to amending the law so that dumping of flex workers because they are cheaper can no longer be prevented. In my opinion, this undermines his credibility and his belief that he has been very active on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks voted in favour of the Work and Security Act, but then made a reservation for the flex parts of the law. You may remember that, and the Minister certainly remembers it. That was from the genuine concern that those well-meaning flex parts of the law would lead to something that no one intended, for example that people would lose their jobs not after three years but after two years. I still hope that the concern we expressed at that time will prove to be unjustified, but I have to say that what gave rise to today's debate, ING's leaked memo, does not reassure me. I repeat what I said in the first term: I have the feeling that if this memo had not been leaked, those hundreds of people at ING who are now talking about without too much hassle would have lost their job without a transition fee. I therefore hope that the concern I expressed on behalf of my group will prove unjustified, but there is still a long way to go. I found the debate on cultural change interesting in this debate. Because, yes, it should be obvious that we all abide by the laws that we ourselves have agreed on here, but there is indeed sometimes a need for cultural change. That is why it would have been so nice if not only by the trade union movement and by the minister had reacted indignantly to what ING intended to do, but also that the employers had shown themselves, and not just now, in a frankly rather dutiful note from the Foundation of Labour. When it was on the agenda, it would have been good if there had been a clear signal from the employers' side. I hope this will sound like it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr Van Ojik knows that we should not be talking about signals alone: laws and rules are decisive. This law and these rules make it possible and maintain that flex workers are so cheap, and the law is so drafted, that they dump them for those who only look at the spreadsheets............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Does Mr Van Ojik therefore support our proposals to amend the law as a matter of urgency so that we can prevent them from being dismissed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u157	I can now say again that we have always supported the plea of the SP, whether it was from Mrs Karabulut or from her and my colleague Ulenbelt, in order to address the price gap between flex and fixed, so that there is no incentive to replace it with flex. We have also supported the Work and Security Act. We have, however, made the reservation that the flex part of the law might be on the contrary. In other words, that what no one wants would happen, namely that people as a result of the chain clause...................... would rather lose their jobs instead of getting a permanent employment................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is where we share the concerns of the SP. As far as the price difference is concerned, to sum up, we agree with what the SP has advocated in several debates. We have also shown this regularly in votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u158	Now it turns out that it is going to be practice, so GroenLinks also says to the minister: moral indignation is fine, but you have to act and fix the law immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u159	Whether that should be done through a change of the Work and Security Act I do not know exactly; I cannot fully oversee that. However, for the idea that flex work is now far too cheap in relation to permanent work, Mrs Karabulut can count on the support of GroenLinks, among other things, in the debate on the WW premium. But again, whether it should be regulated by a change of this law or otherwise? At the moment I cannot fully see whether that would be the right way forward, I say quite honestly. But we agree on the principle. Mr. Chairman. I also appreciate the Minister's statement that he will examine the consequences of what was communicated by ING yesterday. When it comes to broadening the evaluation to the chain determination and the transition fee, the Minister proposed to consider in the course of the budgetary procedure how it would be possible to decide on possible broadening of the evaluation. I am also grateful to the Minister for that. I'm following him in that approach. We shall therefore come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr. Chairman. There is still a lot of uncertainty as to whether we are actually going to achieve the effects we hope to achieve. So we will be talking about it many times. In any case, it is a good thing that the cabinet keeps its finger on the pulse and that it is not just waiting for the evaluation or a letter at the end of this year. I have two motions. I think it is wise that the Minister has indicated that it is important that as a government you do not measure towards yourself and towards business with double standards and that the government still has business to do in that regard. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment described ING's conduct as "extremely scandalous', after which ING strengthened personnel policy within a week;]] [[noting that this minister expects such a practice to occur in the government "really a few more times";]] [[Whereas the government should set a good example, and the Minister also stressed this in the debate;]] [[calls on the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment not to double in his assessment of the human resources policies of government and industry;]] [[calls on the Government to send a letter to the House of Representatives by 1 May at the latest, explaining how the government will act in accordance with the spirit of the Work and Security Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Weyenberg, Pieter Heerma and Anne Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u161	Do I hear Mr Van Weyenberg correctly that the motion says 'to the spirit of the law'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u162	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u163	Why not "to the letter and spirit of the law"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u164	Because I take the "letter" for granted and the "spirit" that apparently isn't yet. So that's what I'm calling for. In the debate, I was further triggered by a remark by Mrs Vermeij, in which she said that she was rather sorry that she had voted against the D66 motion to ensure that the employer's unpaid pension contribution falls into the wages of employers. So that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that agreements have been made between public employers and public staff power stations on the ABP pension 2015 and the resulting reduction in contributions;]] [[having regard to the Court's ruling that the statement by the Minister for Housing and National Service that a sectoral collective agreement should first be concluded before the retirement pension release can be implemented is not supported by the Pension Agreement concluded on 13 November 2014;]] [[Whereas the release of the employer's share of the pension premium is of great importance for purchasing power and the government as an employer has an exemplary role to play in this process;]] [[points out that the employer's exemption should be returned as soon as possible to the employees of the State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33818-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u165	In this way, I will give Mrs Vermeij the opportunity to support this motion in favour of a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr. Chairman. I have no motions, but during this debate I actually had to think about one thing and that is the book I'm reading from former senator William Witteveen, entitled The Law as an artwork. We've all had it, and I'd advise everyone to read this book. In that book, Mr Witteveen's statement is that a law is not only an instrument of good governance. Legislation is actually a sort of bold search, he says. He also states that the law is primarily a social construction. In those words there is actually a lot of what we are discussing here, because a law is not the end of the discussion. In fact, I think we have noticed today that this is the beginning of the discussion. We do not regulate society for a while by putting something into a law and then thinking that it will all work that way. That does not relieve us of the duty to look for what the spirit of the law is and whether it is being acted upon. In this sense, I understand the Minister's comment on the need for cultural change; again, I do not understand the idea that we are going to steer the whole culture from above. That's something we have to do with each other. Hence my explicit question about the social partners. If we really want the Work and Security Act to be a success, in the sense that it will become clearer for workers and better for flex workers in the labour market, that is a joint responsibility of all of us. This debate will not be the end of the discussion either, but I fear it will begin. It is a debate that we have to engage in with each other, but it is simply glowing to ensure that the practice changes a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mr. Chairman. This debate is actually about two things. The most important question is whether this law is going to do what it has to do. There's a lot of concern about that. Is there a start-up problem or a structural problem? The Minister has also indicated in this debate that he will keep his finger on the pulse. The fact is, there's a lot of concern about that. Many employers and sectors approach the Chamber with the signal that this has the wrong effect in their sector. That the Minister chooses to make a moral appeal to ask for the good of employers instead of the wrong, is fine with me. That is a good thing. However, if you do that moral apple, it is important that you are consistent in that, because the power of expression of that moral apple depends on that. I was afraid that the Minister would defend here what seemed to be the case yesterday at RTL, namely that it was a very different matter for the government. The fact remains that he made that suggestion yesterday with the quote he gave "in the government it can happen once, but it's good that we learn from it" and that for all those employers where there is tension and anger about this law the effect of it can be that they act less to the spirit of the law and more to the letter, to the space that might be in it. That is why I have frequently asked the Minister in this debate to correct that picture. He started that, but it is also important that the government shows in action that it is at least as sharp for itself. That is why I have just co-signed Mr Van Weyenberg's motion in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u168	I know Mr Heerma as a sharp and fair debater. If the Minister has just said that he has not yet evaluated his own actions and does not want to double standards, why does Mr Heerma say so in Mr Van Weyenberg's motion, which he has co-signed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u169	The minister says he has to think first and then he has to do it. That's something my mom used to give me a lot of times. We note that this is not happening. When it comes to a law with so much tension, I think that we should also put it firmly in a motion and give it to the Minister as a Chamber as a way of supporting the idea that this should not happen again and that we should think about it before a private company is tackled hard in week one and a different signal will be sent to the government in week two. I think that fits in with this debate. What the motion requests to the cabinet is something that I believe the PvdA Group should be able to support. So I hope that the PvdA will be able to support this motion when it comes to voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u170	The motion is considering a great deal and is also asking for two things. I'm looking at that whole thing. If the motion had only consisted of the last paragraph, I could have understood her very well. But for that I see a number of other phrases which, in the light of this debate, also surprise me. I have to conclude that Mr Heerma really wants the Minister to stop responding at all to the government or to any company and any act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u171	I think that, on the basis of this motion, the Labour Party is drawing a very strange conclusion. By the way, the motion has just been tabled, so perhaps it would be a good idea to read it carefully before the votes. I think the motion is pretty clear. If the Minister makes a moral appeal, then I support him in saying that in all cases, especially when it comes to the government, you use the same edge, even in the image that you radiate to employers. It is very important to realise how much tension there is already in this discussion and how much resistance there is with employers. Mrs Vermeij knows that, too. That signal gives this motion. The motion does not give the signal to stop being sharp and not to give moral judgment. It doesn't say that, and it doesn't mean that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u172	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for saying again that he is keeping his finger on the wrist. That's very important. We are also pleased that the Minister has said that he is going to help the schools and that he wants to appeal to the trade unions at the same time. We're facing that. He has not yet said that he also wants to call on the trade unions to help companies if they want to act in the spirit of collective bargaining. Maybe he can still say that. We are pleased that this motion will receive a letter from the cabinet. So the letter comes not only from this minister, who of course is high-ranking, but also from the Minister for Housing and National Service. If there is a need, then there can be a debate on this. We assume that this letter contains the financial consequences, if there are any.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u173	This ended the second term of office. I see the Minister would like a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I agree with Mrs Schouten's fine speech, which refers to The Law as a work of art by Willem Witteveen. She says exactly that a law is never the only one. You shouldn't think that without laws you can change society, but with just a magazine mention you have no social development. I think everyone is very aware of that. That's part of the struggle we're going through right now. Some employers will say: it can't be done. Part of it is the resistance that passes when one sees that there is balance in it. That's one of the reasons I'm watching for premature conclusions. For this reason, I have again promised today that we will follow this closely and that we will continue to look closely at what is happening in society. It is precisely with this in mind that you should not jump to conclusions. You really need to see what it does in the long run. A law comes to maturity over the years and has effect over the years. I come to the motions, first of all those tabled by Mrs Vermeij and Mr Van Ojik in part No. 63. This motion calls on the government to ensure that the government sets an example. I see the motion as a policy support. I have also argued this in the debate. And I am certainly speaking on behalf of my colleague. In the motion in part No. Mrs Karabulut's 64 concerns the WW premium. I have already said in the debate that I think this is premature. I therefore advise against the motion. The question can be involved in the evaluation of the Work and Security Act. The law must be given a chance first. In the motion in part No. 65 Ms Karabulut asked the government to change the dismissal allowance. The introduced redundancy compensation, read: transition compensation, is the result of the agreements between employers and employees, both of which say there is balance in it. This balance has been incorporated into the Work and Security Act and accepted by a majority of the Second and First Chambers. I do not think that there is now reason, reason or justification to change the level of dismissal compensation as a matter of urgency. I have indeed proposed an amendment to the law by means of emergency legislation, which has been accepted by this Chamber, but it was the very specific issue of the retroactive effect of the transitional fee on temporary contracts in seasonal work. The Chamber, supported by large numbers of employers, had very explicitly asked for this. I have also tried to find a balance in what is real. I don't think that's appropriate here, so I'm deceiving the motion. Then the motion to part No. 66 by Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Heerma and Mr Mulder. The request to send a letter on how we are going to do this is fine with me. I just said that in the first place. In that respect, I would therefore say 'judge chamber'. I would also like to make a reservation on the deadline. The House is well aware that Minister Blok is primarily responsible for what needs to be done there. If I can see this as an effort commitment, then I can. The request not to double standards is a bit teasing, but that's fine. I wasn't going to. I have a little more difficulty with the observation that I would expect that such a practice, referring to ING, will really occur a few more times in the government. That gives me the feeling that, no matter how bad my media performance yesterday may have been, words are still being read in it that I really didn't use. I did not say there that the ING case will occur a few times in the government. Anyway, it is an observation and I can ignore it. I take note of the fact that this observation seems to be of importance to the applicants for the request that is being made. I always have to react like a grown man, and that's why I'm looking at the request that's being made. A letter is being requested, and I do not find that unreasonable. If I may explain the deadline as an effort since I have to agree with my colleague, I shall leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u175	That "such a practice" seems to strike at ING rather than at problems in the implementation of the law, I admit to the Minister. He didn't make that link. The aim was: problems with the implementation of the law or problems with flexwork. I will look at this wording with the other proposers. The motion says "around May." I have heard the Minister very well and I hope that we will have an extremely clear opinion when we make this decision on 1 June. The judgment of the Court of Justice was already clear, but I would like to respond to the Minister's concern about the timetable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u176	Let me express my appreciation for Mr Van Weyenberg's willingness to look at this observation in all fairness. I trust that he will do so in a faithful manner and I in turn feel no longer addressed by the first request. If he sets the motion for a date which I dare to walk to my colleague, I will leave the judgment to the Chamber. Thank you for this way of doing things. In the motion in part No. 67 is not a request to the government. Therefore, I do not think it would be appropriate to give a pre-advisation. If the Court wishes to give this ruling, we shall take note of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u177	So judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u178	That implies a more positive basic attitude in this house. I'm not gonna give you any pre-advisation on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u179	No government opinion: it is a special one, but it is possible. The Minister has explained it well and we are going to do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-3.u180	Next Tuesday we shall be voting on the motions tabled.
