ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. TNO, on behalf of the government, has selected and invented that a hybrid car like it will load on grey electricity about as much emissions as an ordinary petrol car over the entire life cycle. That's not big news. The CDA Group has long been calling for attention to be paid to the complete oversubsidisation of the purchase of new hybrid cars. I call the Volvo V60 and the Mitsubishi Outlander that you can sometimes buy for almost two thirds. This is not proportionate to any environmental gain. The Court of Auditors has already concluded that a thousand times more public subsidies are spent per tonne of CO savings compared to other environmental measures, i.e. an idiotic amount. The cabinet has taken a first step to tackle the over-subsidisation, but the Court of Auditors calculated this last year: EUR 5.2 billion has already been spent on grants and more than EUR 1 billion is being spent on tax subsidies per year. That money isn't always well spent. A number of things have been taken care of badly. Especially leasing car drivers have no incentive to drive electric. Despite the often announced covenants, they ride on petrol and that plug is just in it to actually fuel subsidy. The second-hand lease cars are exported massively. They've already burned down all the subsidies. This means that the problem is actually still underestimated in the TNO study. Already on 4 November last year the headline was: Wiebes is going to tackle abuse plug-in hybrids. Then the promise to come up with a new system of car taxes first in the summer of 2014, then in the fourth quarter and now before 1 June 2015. Expensive year, then. Is this Car Letter 2 really coming for June 1st? Are there plans to stop subsidising hybrid leased cars in such a way that you get all the subsidies, even if you are always driving on petrol; curbing the export of second-hand hybrid cars, and tackling their oversubsidisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. This conclusion is indeed not new. Not only has TNO picked this out before, but also the General Court, as Mr Omtzigt rightly says. I can add that I myself had an evaluation of car policy carried out, which went to the Chamber in 2014. PRC came to the conclusion together with TNO that it was inefficient policy in their words. They are responsible for the fact that actual consumption is indeed very different from standard consumption, but also for the fact that part of the effect is leaking away due to the waterbed effect, as it is called in Europe. I have promised that there will be a letter for the summer, as Mr Omtzigt knows. I just didn't want to complicate things by philosophizing here about what's in there. We do that with four rulers. I am talking about this with 12 parties in the industry and with the environmental movement. I hope to be one step further before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u3	I repeat my question as to whether these three matters are being dealt with, but I can imagine how they are being dealt with in that letter. Point one is to prevent you from getting all the subsidy on a hybrid leased car, even if you're driving on gasoline. Point two concerns the export of hybrid cars from the lease. If you were to lease this second-hand, you'd have to pay the full sum. No one does, so they all go to Norway and Poland. Point three is you're going to take the oversubsidisation further. Can the Secretary of State promise that this is in there? The Secretary of State says, before the summer, but we know it. The Chamber goes on 2 July with summer recess. That's at the beginning of the summer. It may well be that on 1 July we will receive such a stack of letters with policy intentions from the government that we can't get through anymore. It wasn't by accident that I cycled in it on June 1st. Then we can possibly hold a round table or invite an expert. Then we have three weeks to consider whether the proposed measures that the government has thought about for one and a half years are the right ones. Then the government can work these out for the Tax Plan, which they need to get into.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u4	What's in the letter and what's not, of course we're gonna see it before the summer. I can tell you that the government would be crazy if it didn't take into account all those outcomes. I shall therefore try to take into account Mr Omtzigt's request not to deliver him a large pile of mail on the day he goes on holiday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u5	On the first three points, I understand that, so I will not insist on it any further. However, I continue to insist on just mentioning a date on which that letter is here. I'm fine with it if that's June 1, 2 or 3. Then this can be treated properly. We have bad experiences with the fact that something was adopted very quickly in the past. The previous plan wasn't perfect either. That's why we've had a 5.2 billion leak. Then it would seem useful if we could talk about this for a few weeks before we approve, amend or reject it. Can the government promise that that letter will be here in the first week of June?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u6	I will do my utmost to take account of Mr Omtzigt's perfectly reasonable desires. To mention an exact date in this complex dossier goes a little too far. I made a promise at the time... before the summer. I'll do everything I can to make it work. Mr Omtzigt and I share the same views on what is orderly in a commitment to do so before the summer. I'll do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u7	It is clear that no substantive question will be answered, because reference is made to an Auto Letter. That's the way it's been in this room for years. Problems are being pushed forward. Mr Omtzigt has rightly said that billions are being wasted in inefficient environmental policies. Those billions are raised by all motorists. On behalf of the PVV, I would like to suggest to the government that we stop these ridiculous environmental subsidies and lower car taxes for everyone. Is the Secretary of State willing to take that with him in the Car Letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u8	I am opposed to the fact that we have been extending this for years and doing nothing about the content. For the year 2016 the subsidy, especially of the plug-ins, has already been greatly reduced; I even remember some discussion about this. The addition rate has gone from 7 to 15 for 2016 and the zero rate in the MRB has gone to half a rate. So very substantial steps have been taken. Furthermore, we have already greatly reduced the profession that owners of these cars can do on subsidies such as the MIA, the KIA and the Vamil. Mr Mansveld, together with the E-Team, is also very busy in the weather for this purpose being measured by TNO.................................................................................................................................................... So it is absolutely not that nothing happens, but what is in the Car Letter is read as soon as the Car Letter arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u9	Since 2007, it has been known that environmental policy is not effective, but it costs billions. Since 2007, EUR 5 billion has been involved. The cabinet also increased the diesel tax. The Dutch pay the highest car taxes in Europe. I ask the Minister who pays the EUR 5 billion in failed subsidies. They're the same drivers. Does the Secretary of State therefore wish to comment once again on the argument that all Dutch drivers pay for failing environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u10	Everyone chooses their own words here. I said that in 2016 we started a very significant reduction in the subsidy of plug-ins. This has led to more commotion in the sense that there would be too large a structure rather than too small a structure. I therefore note that this has been a firm step. Furthermore, I have promised that I will include all the conclusions that lie ahead, including that this policy would be inefficient, in writing the Car Letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-6.u11	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. That concludes Question Time.
