ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs in our midst.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. A monkey sandwich usually sells well; that goes well. A horse sandwich doesn't sell well at all, if you're honest about it. That's why there's massive fraud. Bullet steak turned out to be horse steak, beef balls were full of pony residue and croquettes and frikadels hanging from horse chips, without the croquettes salesman having to mention that. As with the consumption of actually all animals, there is a major problem with the consumption of horses. In fact, feeding horses to humans poses a major risk to public health. You don't know where the racehorses and sportshorses come from, but you do know that there's a good chance they've been given drugs you don't want in your bloodstream, let alone in your daughter's bloodstream of 6. In addition to the public health aspect, there has been serious abuse, the way horses are kept and transported, they have to be in auctions and they have to sit in trucks for hours before they arrive at the slaughterhouse. The animals are imported into Europe from Mexico, Uruguay, Argentina, the United States or Canada. In fact, the European audit bodies must check whether the conditions comply with European rules, but that is not so consistent. Thanks to a Dutch animal protection organisation, Eyes on Animals, it has come to light how terrible it is. Everyone in politics in The Hague actually agrees on that; fortunately, just once. Minister Schippers even said: I have looked at the images, and they are horrible, horrible to look at. Anyone with a bit of a heart for animals gets sick of that and we share that directly, she said on behalf of the cabinet. The Animal Party welcomes this, but we do wonder what the government is going to do to put an end to the sale of these seriously abused animals in Europe. Of course, it cannot be that we like Jumbo and Albert Heijn say: we are shocked but then do nothing. There are some rules. Abattoirs must comply with European standards, but they are therefore not complied with. As far as the Party for Animals is concerned, the measure is full. We want a Dutch and European ban on imports of all horse meat from the countries mentioned and other countries. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if she agrees with us. Does she agree that the standards we set here should also apply to imports of producers outside the EU? The same applies to the slaughter, transport and use of the Secretary of State for this purpose. If the Secretary of State is committed to a European import ban, I would also like to ask her what she is doing in the meantime for the Netherlands. The Party for Animals would like all the horse meat to go out of the Dutch shelves. If the Secretary of State does not do so, at least we want a clear warning on the packaging of products that may contain traces of the dangerous phenylbutazone. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State the promise that imports of this type of meat from heavily abused animals will cease. The conversion of horse meat to beef and other products must really be over. I want her to stand up for her commitment to raising animal welfare to the standard at European level as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u3	Mr. Chairman. Soon we'll be back here again. Then it's about the news that commercial food laboratories are overlooking horse meat. We are also going to talk again about a report by the Research Council for Security on the risks. As far as I am concerned, we are bringing these debates together, but that is a suggestion for the authors. I'm restricting myself today to the March broadcast of Radar last year. As far as I am concerned, the subject of the debate is the monitoring and the situation in slaughterhouses for horses in countries outside the European Union. My CDA colleague in the European Parliament Esther de Lange presented a comprehensive report in the European Parliament as food fraud rapporteur in 2013. The report mentioned, among other things, the large differences between countries in the control and enforcement and the non-binding nature of cross-border cooperation and data exchange. The CDA considered that supervision should be more risk-oriented. We see this coming back in the progress report of the NVWA of July. Whether the European Food and Veterinary Office, the FVO, is also risk-oriented is difficult to assess. In the Minister's letter of 15 July last year, I read that the Secretary of State will inform the FVO and the European Commission about the problem. We have a few questions about that. Does it mean the animal welfare problem that would exist in these countries? What is the current state of affairs? I wonder whether, given the possible fraud involving horse meat, the FVO controls more risk-oriented outside the EU. Have the controls been intensified? Is there a plan of action to improve the functioning of the FVO? If there is no such plan of action, does the Secretary of State intend to argue to the Commission? Mr President, I made it in two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u4	Mr. Chairman. In July we received a letter from the Secretary of State containing an overview of the findings of the EU Food and Veterinary Office. Six inspections over the last five years have revealed the necessary abuses. We find six inspections in the last five years a little thin. Uruguay promised to improve the fixing of slaughter horses, but the abuses go beyond that, of course. Will the Secretary of State please inform us what's going on? We don't understand the findings of the Food and Veterinary Office very well. The FVO does not come to check whether it has been refurbished. Why is it that exports aren't shut down until they're proven to be better? The report on Mexico is more recent. On this basis, it has been concluded that the meat should not enter the EU, because it cannot be verified where it comes from and what substances are in the meat. However, that meat will end up in the shelves of the Albert Heijn. Think of horse smoke that is consumed raw. I'm worried about that. I ask the Secretary of State to ask the EU Food and Veterinary Office to revisit this matter and to step up its action: do not promise and get away with it. The traceability of the meat should be improved. My colleagues have already mentioned this. Whether you buy the Albert Heijn or the C1000 horse smoke meat or order a bitterball in the pub from Beckers, you don't know what kind of horse meat is in it. However, that is what we want to know. I don't understand these supermarkets. The Secretary of State is going to talk to them soon about the kilo-bulls and maybe it's good to see what they want with them. If, in Argentina or Uruguay, they have to have the Dutch or European control over their own regulations and compliance with European regulations, and there is always a problem, supermarkets have to scratch behind their ears and think that the meat from South America may not end up in the Dutch shelves. Would the Secretary of State wish to make a commitment in Brussels to the correct indication of the origin of the meat on the labels of the products? In this way, as consumers, we can choose whether or not to eat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u5	Fortunately, Mrs Dikkers came to the end with an explanation of how she wants to deal with the origin of meat. I was afraid that every bitterball we eat in the pub would have to be flagged with information on the origin of the meat. I would like a response from Mrs Dikkers. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u6	There's a flag like that all the time on the bitterball. I don't know where Mrs. Lodder buys the bitterballs, but when you get them in the pub, there's a flag on it. I really want us to just make it traceable and that if you order bitterballs here on the Square at your drink, you can ask: gosh, what kind of meat is in it and where does that come from? I'd like that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u7	Mrs Dikkers makes a wonderful plea, but let us focus on the feasibility. I hope, however, that Mrs Dikkers agrees with me that it is impossible for an individual entrepreneur to shape the traceability of meat or other products in this way. Let us talk about the serious issues that we can actually do something about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u8	I would not call the Albert Heijn an individual entrepreneur. It's a big player. So is Becker's croquettes. These farms are perfectly capable of tracking where the meat comes from. They also know where they bought it. I therefore believe that this could simply be on the label.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u9	I actually think it's a good proposal from the VVD. I've been brooding a little bit on that myself. I see a bowl like that in front of me with all kinds of snacks. In one there's a little stick that says "this was a pony" and in the other it says "this was a chick." Actually, I think it's a good idea. That's what we're gonna think about. My question to Mrs Dikkers is the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u10	I'm afraid the motions already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u11	It's still raging in my head, but at least I have vivid images on my retina. My question to Mrs Dikkers is the following. I have heard her voice of justified criticism and serious concern, and I would like to thank her for that on the control of European standards for meat from outside Europe. It's five checks in six years or six in five years or something. She's not satisfied with that. I wonder whether the Labour Party will be on our side if we say that we should at least have a moratorium on imports of these meat products until we can ensure that European requirements are in any case met and that our standards also apply to imports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u12	Yeah, I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u13	Thank you very much. As far as Mrs Dikkers is concerned, does this also apply to the standards that we apply here, but which have not yet been explicitly imposed on exporters, or to importers if we look at them from this point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u14	I find it extremely difficult to meet no explicit requirements. I find that very difficult in daily traffic. So it seems to me to be very complicated for exporters of meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u15	I would like to ask a brief final question. Is that okay, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u16	You've already put three or four. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u17	I've been talking for a while. I apologize for that. I'll get to the transport requirements. Should we also impose the standards we apply in Europe for the transport of animals as a requirement for the import of meat? It's all about abattoirs now. Actually, I think that's too skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u18	I think that's too skinny. I would very much like the transport requirements to be used in the import. We understand that there are legal obstacles. We are very keen to see what legal obstacles are involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u19	Mr Bashir of the SP would like to speak. Anything else you'd like to say about a special kind of bitterball picker?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u20	No, I've heard good news. I have heard that the PvdA Group is in favour of a moratorium. Will it table a motion or at least a proposal on this in the second term? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u21	We have to wait and see what the Secretary of State has to say about it. Then we'll see in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u22	That'd be great. I am also curious to hear the answer from the Secretary of State, but if she does not agree, I expect action from the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u23	I didn't hear a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u24	Very good. Thank you very much. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bashir, who is now giving his light to matters from another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u25	Mr. Chairman. Horses traveling thousands of miles without drinking water. Horses going on transport for days. Horses so broken they can literally no longer stand on their feet. Dying and wounded horses. In March 2014 there was a broadcast by Radar about the strange way in which horses were treated in Mexico, Canada, Argentina and Uruguay. The whole of the Netherlands was shocked. Eyes on Animals revealed that horse meat lands on the plate of Dutch consumers, consumers who do not want it this way. Two days after the publication of the research report, more than 65,000 people had already made their call to Dutch snack producers and supermarkets to stop selling this kind of horse meat. The European Food and Veterinary Office, the FVO, has now investigated malpractice in Mexico, following which an import ban has been imposed on horse meat from that country. Way to go! But in Canada, Argentina and Uruguay, it's just as bad. I therefore ask the Secretary of State why horse meat can be imported from these countries. For example, the FVO has said about Canada that the situation at Canadian horse slaughter is unacceptable. Is the cabinet sufficiently aware of the facts, as laid down by the FVO? After all, the letters of the cabinet do not correspond at all to what the FVO says. Is the cabinet prepared to argue in Europe for a moratorium on imports of meat from these countries? Would the cabinet like to set this up for the next LNV Council? Dutch horse meat is subject to a lifetime registration of drug use. In the case of the import horses this need only be kept for the last six months. Is there not an uneven playing field here? This is not only detrimental to European entrepreneurs, but it is also a risk to public health because horses are regularly injected with phenylbutazone. This medicine is dangerous for people's health and can cause leukaemia. There is a zero tolerance policy in Europe. Why should meat be imported which may contain phenylbutazone? Why can it not be established that horses cannot be imported if the use of drugs has not been kept for life? Dutch and European entrepreneurs suffer from competition from meat importers who have poorer animal welfare and food safety standards. Our entrepreneurs are under pressure to lower their standards. What is the Secretary of State doing to create a level playing field? In practice, trade agreements are all too often liberalised and standards of food safety, the environment and animal welfare are abandoned. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this is a bad thing? Will the government put non-trade groups, such as animal welfare and the environment, on the agenda for WTO negotiations? Is the government prepared to get matters such as food safety, consumer interests, the environment and animal welfare into trade agreements? For example, there will be a free trade agreement with Canada. Eyes on Animals reported that animal welfare and food safety in Canada are not as good as horse meat. What has been the government's commitment to this? Will the Secretary of State promise that the government will now work in free trade agreements to maintain European standards and raise foreign standards? In this context, I would also ask the Secretary of State to update the TTIP negotiations with the United States. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u26	Mr. Chairman. This is a debate that goes in all directions if we are not careful. It will be a great challenge for the Secretary of State to respond to this. The debate on the admissibility of horse meat on the Dutch market was requested at the beginning of last year in response to reports on the unclear origin of horse meat and the manner in which horses are kept in the countries concerned. It concerns horse meat from North and South America exported to Europe and which is mainly found in the Netherlands, Belgium and France in the food chain. For the VVD it is clear: food should be safe. The origin of food and the way food is produced must be transparent. In this case, that is how the horses are slaughtered and the meat is processed. I therefore have a number of questions to the Secretary of State on this matter. In the report it was stated at the time that the European Food and Veterinary Office, the FVO, has only announced checks at slaughterhouses once a year and also in advance. In a reaction from the cabinet, we have read that this is correct. Does the Secretary of State consider that the FVO is carrying out its task as a European Food and Veterinary Office in a good and responsible manner? To what extent does this affect food safety? How much attention is paid to this within the European Commission? Where are the responsibilities for managing this service? Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss with her European colleagues the checks and the way in which they are carried out and the risks to public health? I ask these questions particularly in the light of NVWA and the Dutch controls. In addition to food safety, my group believes that a level playing field is important. Companies that can produce under much less stringent conditions can do this more advantageously and put our Dutch but also our European entrepreneurs at a disadvantage in this case. As an individual country, the Netherlands cannot impose animal welfare requirements and a number of other rules. How can the Secretary of State influence the level playing field for entrepreneurs, both within and outside Europe? I cannot leave it in this debate to dwell briefly on fraud. If meat or other food is not placed on the market properly, or if another product is sold, it must be fought hard. We have rightly talked about the Dutch market a number of times, but to what extent does the European service have sufficient instruments available to tackle countries or slaughterhouses that are failing to comply with European rules? My group wholeheartedly supports Mr Geurts' suggestion. I think it would be good to bring together a number of debates to discuss the issue in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u27	I hear Mrs Lodder's fine words about the consumer's freedom of choice. We need to be able to choose what we eat. We must also be well informed about this. That is what Mrs Lodder said, above all: the consumer must be informed about where the meat comes from. Does this mean that I find Mrs Lodders on my side in extending the labelling obligation so that we know where the meat comes from and that the consumer can actually make a balanced choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u28	I have said the exact words that the origin and the way in which food is produced must be transparent in this case how the meat is slaughtered and processed. This should be clear, particularly for the control bodies. We have spoken before and more often in the Chamber about extending labelling. We've had these interrupting debates with each other. If we are not careful, we will have either a fold-out label with the different products or those ridiculous pricks in the bitterballs in the pub. My group is not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u29	So I understand that the VVD Group believes that the origins should be made clear, but that we as consumers should not know that. That's actually what I can conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u30	When we see how things are organized in our own country, we can trace back meat. Meat can be traced very quickly. That transparency is there. I believe that this should also be done abroad. In this context, I have also raised the issue. So it has to be clear and traceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u31	The VVD and the Party for Animals do not agree very often, but they do agree that when you set standards, everyone has to comply with them. If we abolish the batteries here, we do not think it fair for producers from other countries to be able to enter the European market. That's not fair to the entrepreneurs. Does the VVD think that we should also set the standards for slaughter and transport in Europe at the border? Otherwise we will be flooded by meat from producers who do not have to comply with those rules. That is simply not fair from the point of view of a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u32	I have responded to this in my text. I have indicated that the Netherlands cannot impose additional requirements individually. I assume that, given all the other questions that have been asked, the Secretary of State will respond to this. We call for a level playing field. We've had this debate with each other before. My group believes that we are making very high demands in the Netherlands, also in relation to fellow countries around us. We would like to see that level playing field. Whatever's in our power should be addressed. However, it must be possible, once again. Mrs Ouwehand proposes that the Netherlands opt for a moratorium individually. If that is not legally feasible, it cannot be done anyway. If one individual country does so, there are still all kinds of other roads along which that meat comes on the market in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u33	We can go a long way with each other. The VVD sees difficulties where the Party for Animals still sees opportunities, but if I call on the Secretary of State to commit to a European import ban, if we cannot ensure that imports of these products meet the same requirements as the requirements we impose on our own entrepreneurs, the VVD can support us in that. That's what I'm deriving from Mrs. Lodder's story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u34	I have mentioned two points. I have asked questions about controls by the European service of the slaughter process and processing in such countries and about the level playing field. I suggest that we await the answer to these questions by the Secretary of State first. I would also like to see how she responds to the other questions that have been asked. Then we'll see each other again in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u35	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing an important issue here today, because if you go a little wider than horse meat, you will see how complicated our food chain is currently organised. We regularly eat a bitterball in the Netherlands, at least some of us, but we do not realize that this bitterball was created by treating horses horribly in a very far country. This case shows that very well. Many people were shocked when the broadcast of Radar appeared on television at the end of March. We have asked this Secretary of State and the Minister of VWS for clarification: how can this be done, what about the controls and so on? In addition, I noticed the following, which you also read back in the letter in so many words. The checks, the structures, the schedules and the certifications are all extremely sound on paper, but the practice is very different from the paper reality. That's what the broadcast showed. The cabinet itself wrote that on page 5 of the letter: "The images shown in the media would show that horses are not treated in slaughterhouses of third countries in accordance with European legal requirements for animal welfare. However, this picture is not confirmed by the official reports of the latest inspection missions of the European Commission Audit Service, the FVO." In my view, there is only one reality, the reality we have seen in the images on television. The paper reality is very different. Does the Secretary of State share that view? If we share that view, another key question will emerge. Mrs Lodders already asked this question in so many words: what on earth is the control of the FVO? Quantitatively, the controls do not impress me. They're being announced, for God's sake. Always reminds me of my college days. If my mother called with the announcement that she was coming by again on Sunday, the student house was of course spic and span that Sunday, while Saturday was still a relatively mess. That's what it must have been like here. How does the Secretary of State view these controls? Aren't they too skinny? Does it need a tooth or does it have to be completely different? Is the Secretary of State also prepared to find supporters of this in a European context? Finally, I would like to raise a third issue. I think it would be good to show from the Netherlands that we are serious. Of course, this cannot be done by declaring an import ban, because this leads to all kinds of legal issues. However, the Dutch Government could make an effort to explore the contours of a European import ban. That is an important threat. In this way, we could take a step towards reducing this kind of miserable situation. So, very simple: three questions. One, the paper tiger versus reality: what is the position of the Secretary of State? Two, the controls that actually have nothing to do with really hard controls, and three, the exploration of a contour for a European import ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u36	I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes to allow the Secretary of State to prepare her response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u37	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. This debate was requested a long time ago. Nevertheless, I will try to answer in three blocks. It should be noted, however, that some of the questions you have asked are the responsibility of other rulers, who have not been invited today. The issue of labelling and everything related to imports are in the VWS field. The TTIP negotiations are the prime responsibility of the Minister of BHOS, but I will try to say something about them. I hope that the Chamber will forgive me for referring in part to these rulers, with whom the debate can continue. The first point of my three blocks is the relationship between horse meat and food safety. The second point concerns the issue of animal welfare and the third part of my response is specifically about control and enforcement. The first questions asked by Mrs Ouwehand were about how to prevent the consumption of horse meat from creating a risk to public health. Meat and also horse meat sold in supermarkets must comply with food safety regulations. These are rules that we have agreed on in the European Union, and NVWA is monitoring them. We have had the horse meat affair and we will undoubtedly talk about it again in some time. Mr Geurts already recalled that. The NVWA considered in 2013 that the public health risk due to the consumption of that horse meat is nil. That is different than that we agreed, because fraud involving meat is unacceptable; let that be absolutely clear. The subsequent monitoring carried out in many EU countries found no traces or risks of certain resources. We didn't find any major forms of drug residue. As I have said, fraud involving meat is unacceptable and I am committed to it. We have the NVWA's improvement plan and we are strengthening cooperation at European level. We will also, together with VWS, look forward to an extensive debate with you on the approval and supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u38	Madam Secretary of State, there are people watching this debate at home. May I invite you to say every abbreviation once in full? The NVWA is the Dutch Food and Waren Authority. I've also heard BHOS and TTIP coming by. I'll leave that for what it is. However, I would ask you to pay a little attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u39	You're absolutely right. I'll do my best. Mrs Ouwehand has asked for a Dutch or European ban on imports of horse meat. She would like to hear a promise. Horsemeat from third countries, i.e. countries outside the European Union, must comply with European rules on food safety and animal welfare in the slaughterhouse. I'm just saying it's very specific. This is monitored by the regulators at the external borders. Horse meat, for example, must not contain phenylbutazone, which is a prohibited product. It has already been said that Dutch and European investigations have given no reason to believe that there is a major problem at this point. Mrs Dikkers asked whether we in the European Union would like to make a commitment to the origin labelling of horse meat. The VWS Minister had the debate on this with the Chamber earlier and found that from 1 January of this year compulsory origin labelling applies to meat; pig, chicken and I also believe goat. That doesn't apply to horse. The VWS Minister said about the labelling of meat as an ingredient, that she is in favour of labelling on her own but also calls for attention to be paid to its practical feasibility. The debate on this is still in progress in Brussels. I therefore ask the House to hold that debate at another time. It's just not finished yet. We have had some of this discussion in the Chamber. Mrs Dikkers also asked me if I would like to talk to the supermarkets about abuses of meat coming from South America, for example. Last year, supermarket chain Jumbo took action and even inspected slaughterhouses in South America. It is really up to private parties to talk about purchasing conditions, especially when it comes to requirements that are not part of the legal European import requirements. I'll say something about that later. The tricky thing is that in terms of food safety it is really much better possible to sail sharply than in terms of animal welfare requirements. This is one of the reasons why the Dutch Government is calling on the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, to make animal welfare requirements part of the requirements imposed on other countries. However, that is not the case at the moment. Mrs Dikkers says that traceability of meat needs to be improved. That is indeed very important. Under the General Food Law, companies must be able to trace the meat back and a link forward. That's how we arranged it. In the Netherlands, the NVWA pays much more attention to the monitoring of traceability as a result of the horse meat affair. That is also included in the improvement plan. I come to the issue of animal welfare. I would like to begin by echoing what Minister Schippers said in connection with the images we could see on television of the horses slaughtered in Mexico. In this context, Mrs Ouwehand has asked: what has actually happened and how can we eliminate such practices? Once again, imports of meat into Europe are controlled from the European Union. That control shall be carried out in slaughterhouses exporting meat. The route before slaughterhouses, in particular everything related to animal welfare, including transport, is excluded from those controls. That is something of the World Trade Organisation and animal welfare is not part of it. It is therefore important that private parties also make bilateral agreements to take responsibility in this area. The European Commission does appeal to third countries, for example, to the welfare of horses in transport, although the European Commission cannot legally enforce this. Mr Geurts asked about the current state of animal welfare in so-called third countries. Animal welfare in slaughterhouses and the surrounding parcels in third countries is being investigated by the controlling food authority, the FVO, that is to say the European NVWA. I mentioned just now that the EU Commissioner has suggested that we should focus on animal welfare outside, but there is no power to make demands. Mr Bashir referred to free trade agreements. The European Commission will always raise these animal welfare issues there. It does so, inter alia, at the request of Member States such as the Netherlands. The Netherlands insists on this. The agreement with Canada agreed that the European Union and Canada would cooperate in the field of animal welfare. And several ministers of our cabinet have said several times in this Chamber that, for example, in the negotiations on the treaty with the United States, sustainability and animal welfare are very important values for us, which we want to maintain. The discussions on that free trade agreement are still ongoing. As soon as news is available, Minister Ploumen will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mrs Lodders noted that a level playing field for entrepreneurs within Europe, but also between European entrepreneurs and those outside it, was important. It also indicated that the Netherlands, as an individual country, cannot impose requirements, for example, on animal welfare standards elsewhere, in third countries. This also applies to the European Union as such. In any case, we are trying to make the same demands on animal welfare within the European Union or, where we are at the forefront, we have seen this recently with the summit on which we have drawn attention to what we are doing in the Netherlands to see how we can give it a place in the rest of Europe. For example, intervention in animals. Then I'll come to control and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u40	The Secretary of State is actually saying that we are not dealing with animal welfare policy in other countries, and I am not getting involved in that either. I get that. I just think the Secretary of State also understands that this leads to distortions of competition. Cheap kilo shots are easier to get through cheaply produced horse meat. I was thinking that it would help to look at what procurement requirements industry is making in relation to animal welfare. Actually, we don't have a visual on that at all. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it would be helpful if we could get a little more insight and transparency into what kind of procurement requirements companies impose in relation to the relationship between meat from far away and animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u41	Yes, but that is clearly a task that companies themselves must take on. I used the example of a large supermarket doing inspections in third countries. That shows that this is being taken on board. However, this is clearly a matter of values or demands for which we ourselves do not have a legal title to deal with them. It seems to me that supermarkets can show themselves what their demands are. They are absolutely free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u42	Now I happen to know from a conversation in the Chamber with this Secretary of State that one of these days she's sitting with the supermarkets to talk about the kilo-bullers. Is it prepared to ask how they do that and what purchasing requirements they impose on animal welfare? Is she willing to make a small inventory? Then it can be included in the already promised letter about the course of the conversation about the kilo-bullers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u43	I do have a conversation with the supermarkets about stunting meat. We have also voted extensively on this today, you might say. However, I think it would be wise to concentrate the conversation on that too. That is an issue on which we have a view in the Netherlands. I do not think it is wise to add this topic to that conversation again on this route. I'm sure that conversation will be exciting enough. I do agree with Mr Schouw that it is of course fine if supermarkets would like to show that. But I do not think that we should put the issue of these demands on the table, even though we do not even have a start to be able to enforce anything legally, even within the European Union. I do not want to go beyond the observation that it is very important, including for our Dutch farmers, to have a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u44	On that last point, I am a little disappointed that the Secretary of State says that it will be very difficult to make those animal welfare demands. I would like to ask her whether she believes, in principle, that the European requirements and the commitment should apply to products we import. That it can't be arranged tomorrow, I get it. This is also about her commitment in the field of transport, for example. My second question concerns the existing rules which must in any case be complied with in the abattoirs. We see that these agreements are not being kept. Is the Secretary of State prepared to use this information under the arms of Europe to say that a moratorium is appropriate until European requirements are met? Does she want to see if she can find support for that, if she can get the legal options in order? I ask this because she herself says that the level playing field is so important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u45	These are a few questions in one. Yes, it is very important that we put pressure on third countries, where that meat comes from, to get their animal welfare agenda in order. What we are doing is to advocate, within the World Trade Organisation, that animal welfare should become a so-called non-trade group. That is indeed a long-term issue, but that does indicate where we stand in principle. That is the first answer to your question. Then you say that a number of things are not in order and that is why you want a moratorium to be advocated. I will explain in a moment how this works with supervision and control. I agree with the Chamber that there are still a number of achievements that can be made to improve this. But it is not feasible to ask for a moratorium, because you see that it is not an easy matter to get an import ban, even if there are residues in the meat, as was the case in Mexico, and you can actually get them on food safety. Countries in the system always have time to put things in order. Starting with a moratorium, when you cannot prove that it is not in order, is therefore an impossible route with the current European rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u46	That is very acidic, because we do see that the ban...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u47	Any comprehensive political conclusions can be drawn in the second term. Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u48	Yeah, I have a question. I want to know from the Secretary of State whether she really says here that the European rules are working as follows. We make agreements with third countries and tell them what slaughter conditions must be met and what food safety standards are. However, if they are not achieved, we can hardly perform. And if we do it already, as in the case of Mexico, where we already see that production is moving to Brazil, from which there is no import ban, then we have to run after it with our enforcement authorities; then we have to let these guys, so to speak, constantly check whether they are complying with the commitments that have been made with Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u49	I have a whole set of answers to all kinds of questions about how it works exactly. I suspect that I can answer these questions from Mrs Ouwehand and a number of others, such as: what can we do to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u50	Then I suggest we wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u51	I would like to return to the interrupting debate that the Secretary of State had with my colleague from D66. She said: I do not have a legal title to talk to retail, because we do not yet have a policy on it. But, of course, we do have policies in Europe on the transport of slaughter cattle. Couldn't that be a topic of conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u52	Yes, but it is very far-fetched to link that back to purchasing conditions for third-country slaughtered cattle, where the discussion is not so much about how the cattle were slaughtered as about how it was treated before it was slaughtered. It is precisely on that last route that we in Europe have no influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u53	I would like to see that changed, because I find it extremely unsatisfactory. Since the Eyes on Animals report shows that there are abuses there, I would very much like us to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u54	This means that animal welfare in the World Trade Organisation must become a non-trade group, because that also allows Europe to make more demands on the route prior to slaughter, for example on transport. There is no such possibility now. Nevertheless, the European Commission has the opportunity to make a point of this in its discussions with these countries. So does she. The last block was control and surveillance. A lot of questions have been asked about that. What's the deal, exactly? What are the barriers to an import stop? That was a question from Mrs Dikkers. The FVO checks that countries comply and enforce the regulations properly. Upon non-compliance, improvement actions will follow. In the event of persistent problems, measures may also be taken, i.e. an export ban for companies where problems have been identified or an export ban from certain countries. Then you see that at the border the NVWA from the Netherlands controls parties that enter here. If necessary, parties can be stopped. It's not possible to just close the border. Mr Geurts asked whether the FVO's controls have been stepped up as a result of the images we saw last year. There is indeed extra attention to these problems in North and South America. The next year will be Uruguay and Brazil's turn for controls. Mostly residues monitoring is in full focus. Mexico was deleted in 2014 for exports to the European Union for horse meat. This was done on the basis of FVO's findings, and it was possible to do so because residues had been found in the meat. That was a title to organize such a ban. Audits are therefore carried out in slaughterhouses in third countries. They are intended to organise the proper implementation and enforcement of European import requirements. If there is no improvement in irregularities, a country can be removed from the list of countries, as happened with Mexico. The FVO aligns audits with expected risks. Some MPs have asked for risk-based checks. That is the case. Mr Geurts has asked whether there is a plan for improvement. A work programme shall be drawn up annually by the FVO and a schedule of missions to Member States and third countries. That must be announced in advance. They usually spend a week there. It may be announced that they will be there for a week, but that much more unannounced checks will be carried out during that week. That's a possibility the organization has. Specific controls on horse meat may be carried out. Mr Schouw asked whether it was not a paper reality. The fact that Mexico has been deleted shows that this is not the case. At the same time, the images that come along show that the situation is not always in order and that this calls for more unannounced checks. I therefore say to Mr Schouw and Mrs Lodders, and others who undoubtedly agree, that they support raising this particular issue with the European Commission. I agree that you can change a paper reality by doing some unexpected things once in a while. After all, you'd have a better chance of getting onto business. I think that is a valid point. I think it would be excellent not only to urge the European Commission, but also to seek support from the Member States and from my colleagues in the Agriculture Council. The results of all these inspections are on FVO's website, as well as the missions planned this year. For 2015, there are a total of 56 missions in third countries and 2 inspection missions specific to horse meat and residues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u55	Mr Schouw said about the announced checks: that's just like when my mother called me when I was in college. I want to check with Mr Schouw if he would think that the risk of his mother coming by is not present when she calls and says: I'm in your city for a week, but I'm not saying if I'm coming by.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u56	That is not entirely a valid point, because it is not a single room. She'll have to check half a town. Then the moment when you come along or not becomes less predictable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u57	It's a little less predictable than a letter saying I'll be on your doorstep at 10:00 on Tuesday morning. But still, if you know the inspection authorities are around for a week, you're gonna make sure you do it right in that week, right? It's not so hard for a company to last a week, is it? I'm not very impressed by this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u58	In Mexico, it seems that it did not succeed. I suppose, on such a mission, if you become much more unpredictable in exactly where you come from, you'll increase your chances of catching those who want evil. By the way, in the Netherlands too, we manage to check whether certain things are in order, not always to do it exactly the way others want it to be. Fortunately, this is not usually about food safety or animal welfare issues. And we are a rather organized country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u59	Not only the unexpectedness is a point, but also the amount of controls that take place. The Secretary of State says, for example, that in response to my questions about phenylbutazone, this medicine can cause leukaemia in humans, and that in what has been sampled, no substances have been found that cannot be tolerated. However, if you only check 0.4% of the meat, then I don't think you can find anything that quickly. If you're not looking, you won't find anything. Is the Secretary of State prepared to ensure that a level playing field is created between Dutch and foreign entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u60	It seems fine in itself, but it is precisely in this case in which this means is sought that we have deliberately investigated much more in the Netherlands than the European Commission asked of us. We tried to increase the chance that we would find something by doing much more research than the European Commission prescribed to the Netherlands at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u61	The Secretary of State said that's fine. Did she mean that she would now argue that there should be a level playing field? After all, Dutch entrepreneurs have to keep track of the use of a horse throughout their life, while someone who wants to export meat to the Netherlands, to Europe, from abroad only has to do so for six months. So you don't have a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u62	The European Commission is also considering new policies on this point, as I know. The discussion is still ongoing. This means that we are also assessing from that point of view what new, heavier demands we could make to ensure that controls but also the quality of what is coming to Europe's imports are even better. This debate is therefore being held in Brussels. Once again, Minister Schippers, of course, takes the lead. With that I seem to have answered almost all the questions, because I see a lot of repetitions in my folder. I therefore suspect that this would allow me to decide on my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u63	You never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u64	It's an attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u65	I still have a legal point. In the Minister's letter I read the conditions that the FVO lays down for exporting meat from third countries to Europe. That letter mentions three of them. What is against adding a fourth criterion relating to animal welfare in a given country? The Secretary of State has just said that this cannot be done for legal reasons. But why can't it be for legal reasons?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u66	Because animal welfare is not part of what we in the World Trade Organisation have agreed to make demands on third countries. The Dutch Government's struggle to turn animal welfare into a so-called non-trade group must deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u67	But Europe is about its own rules and is not subordinate to those of the WTO, as I know, because there is no kind of higher government. Can the Secretary of State go into more detail on the question of the legal autonomy of the European Commission and one of its organisations, which can simply make demands, in relation to the position of the WTO?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u68	Once again, Mr Schouwen should have this discussion much more specific with Minister Ploumen. However, I can say that it has everything to do with the fact that we are within the rules of the WTO. We want to meet that, because that also benefits the Netherlands. As long as animal welfare is not a non-trade group, therefore, as far as I am aware, sustainability is not possible for the European Union, except for slaughter, because that is what it is all about. So we cannot make demands on transport, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u69	Mr Schouw may respond to this briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u70	I think that's the way it is. Maybe it's not desirable to do this, but when it's legally impossible, I'm not gonna lie down so soon, you know. I understand the reference to other rulers, but the government is one and indivisible. Is the Secretary of State prepared to record this again with Mrs Ploumen and write in a note about this legal impossibility? I'm really curious about the basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u71	I think we have had this particular debate many times. We are members of the WTO from the European Union. That means that we are also bound by WTO rules. This means that our regulations must comply with WTO rules. Food safety is, however, part of this WTO regime. Animal welfare and also sustainability I have just made a mistake about this, but it is not yet part of the WTO regime. If you don't want to do that anymore, you have to leave the WTO with the European Union, but that doesn't seem to me to be the option Mr Schouw is aiming for. I do see him shaking his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u72	Mrs. Ouwehand, this is really going to be your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u73	I would like to ask the Secretary of State about the free trade agreements for which Minister Ploumen is the first responsible. In view of the Secretary of State's commitment to making animal welfare a non-trade group, and in order to make the requirements that we impose on our own producers also apply to imports, I wonder how, at the moment, the government's juice valuation of the present agreement with Canada is. If I read her correctly, it says, "import restrictions? Forget it." How does this relate to the State Secretary's commitment to at least apply animal welfare requirements as a condition in which a level playing field should apply? What we consider normal in Europe should also apply to imports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u74	Once again, our commitment will always be to have this issue on the agenda, including the American treaty with Europe, and to make as little concessions as possible. After all, we think our standards are important. I hope that Mrs Ouwehand will forgive me if I do not shake a whole appreciation of the free trade agreement with Canada. I don't have that here right now. I also think that I should not be the first to report to the Chamber on this matter on behalf of the cabinet. I really think that is on the way of my colleague. I appreciate that the Chamber has everything and everything to do with the debate with me, even far beyond my portfolio. I like that and it is tempting to go into it, but that does not seem sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u75	Those seem like nice last words to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u76	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u77	No, Mrs Ouwehand, I had just given you the floor for one last question. Does the Chamber need a second term? That's the case. I am happy to give the floor first to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u78	Then you'll have to wait, because I still have my motions to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u79	I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u80	I have no contribution for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u81	Then I give the floor to Mrs Dikkers. Oh, you've already made your motions, Mrs. Ouwehand? Then I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u82	It's my turn, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u83	Yes, you don't make the order here. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u84	Mr. Chairman. It is an unsatisfactory debate, and I see that you yourself are a little irritated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u85	I'm not irritated at all, but I'm maintaining order here. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u86	Oh, is that what you do? Mr. Chairman. It's unsatisfying. The Chamber and even the Cabinet believe that the images we have seen confirm the fact that animals are being seriously abused and that we simply allow that meat in Europe. This debate actually leads to the conclusion that the Secretary of State says that it cannot do so much. That's a discrepancy in our values. We have European rules for a reason. We support that, but we think that producers outside the EU are much more good. In an attempt to change that, I submit a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Food and Veterinary Office has carried out recent audits at equine abattoirs in Mexico and Canada and concluded that the circumstances were unacceptable;]] [[noting that these conclusions confirm what European inspection services and international animal welfare organisations have been warning against for years;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to a European moratorium on horsemeat from Canada and North and South America,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the find of phenylbutazone in horse meat in Belgium, the United Kingdom and Switzerland indicates that this banned substance is more common in horse meat than would be suspected;]] [[noting that scientific research has shown that phenylbutazone can lead to a decrease in white blood cells, liver failure and leukaemia in humans;]] [[calls on the Government to require a horse meat warning label to inform consumers of the possible presence of phenylbutazone in horse meat,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that audits carried out by the Food and Veterinary Office (FVO) have been sporadic and announced;]] [[noting that third countries often fail to comply with the recommendations of the FVO and that this could call into question the authority of the FVO;]] [[calls on the Government, at European level, to promote the strengthening of the Food and Veterinary Office authority in which audits are to be carried out unannounced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-452]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-453]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-454]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u87	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u88	Thank you very much. Then I can give the floor to Mrs Dikkers of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u89	Mr. Chairman. I continue to be amazed at the fact that we are able to impose animal welfare requirements during the slaughter process and the short period during which the animals are on the premises of a slaughterhouse, but that we would suddenly encounter all kinds of WTO barriers in the period before that. I'd like to see these obstacles mapped out. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas horses whose meat is sold in the Netherlands must be properly treated;]] [[noting that the EU has a regulatory framework for this;]] [[noting that EU rules on slaughter in North and South America apply to horses whose meat is exported to the Netherlands;]] [[noting that this does not apply to the rules governing the transport of horses for slaughter;]] [[noting that this is not possible due to WTO barriers;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the legal obstacles to demand that horses for slaughter be transported to the Dutch market in accordance with EU standards in North and South America,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dikkers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-455]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u90	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recent imports of horse meat from Mexico have been suspended due to poor animal welfare conditions;]] [[Whereas different sources show that the animal welfare situation in Canada, Argentina and Uruguay is equally poor;]] [[calls on the Government to promote in Europe a moratorium on imports of horse meat from Canada, Argentina and Uruguay and other countries where animal welfare or food safety has been shown to be of comparable poor quality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that animal welfare may be a consideration in order not to allow imports of products such as seal fur;]] [[whereas the WTO does not explicitly recognise animal welfare as a consideration;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that animal welfare is recognised at the WTO as a non-trade-related consideration by including it as an exception in the World Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that animal welfare, food safety and transparency for consumers are important achievements in the Netherlands and in Europe that should not be undermined by trade agreements;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt policies to promote the inclusion of animal welfare, consumer and food safety issues in any relevant multilateral or bilateral trade agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-456]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-457]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-458]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u91	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive reply. In my first term, I made a comparison between the Dutch control of NVWA, the rules we lay down and the FVO. I can tell a difference between that and that. I heard the Secretary of State say that, too. At the same time, she also said that two countries have been added to check extra and that this is being announced. As backup, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the European Commission's European Food and Veterinary Service (FVO) is carrying out generally announced controls in third countries;]] [[calls on the Government to work with the European Commission for (more) unannounced controls by the FVO,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Dikkers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26991-459]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u92	I realize that this motion may be in line with Mrs Ouwehand's, but I could not compare it so quickly. A number of motions have been tabled to impose additional conditions. I will advise my group not to support these motions, because we must first have a look at the legal implications and have a debate on what animal welfare requirements we are going to apply, whether in the Netherlands or in Europe. How do we deal with the level playing field for our entrepreneurs in the Netherlands? This is crucial for the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u93	Mr. Chairman. We thought for a moment this week: it's actually an old issue that we need to discuss here. However, there are very interesting development points in it. They have to do with the question of what animal welfare requirements can be imposed on imports of our meat, whether it be horse meat or other types of meat. On the one hand, this debate has led to the conclusion that this is not yet possible and that the world is full of obstacles. On the one hand, as Mrs Lodder also said, you must ensure a little level playing field. If we try to increase the demands in the Netherlands, the rest of the world will have to go left or right. Otherwise we will put ourselves in a disadvantage. We have therefore raised very interesting issues here. I'm not filing any motions. I just want to highlight two of the motions that have been tabled. The first motion I have raised has been tabled by Mrs Dikkers. It is actually looking for a way forward by asking about the legal possibilities and obstacles. After all, we cannot think of Columbus' egg to make demands on animal welfare today, but we do need to identify these issues. The second motion I wish to highlight is the motion by Mrs Lodders and Mrs Dikkers. That motion calls on the government to ensure that controls become more effective. If these two motions have been passed, I think we have been doing a very good job in the last two hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u94	I have found that the Secretary of State can reply almost immediately. She wants to get the last of these things straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u95	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to get the motions settled quickly. First of all, I come to the motion on part No. 452. That is Mrs Ouwehand's motion calling for a European moratorium. I have just explained in detail why that is not possible. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 453 by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Thieme. The operative part says that we should require a label on horse meat to warn about the medicine phenylbutazone. I also advise against that motion. According to the regulations, the product must not be present in the meat. The checks that have been carried out have not actually given the picture that it is present in the meat. It is therefore not desirable to do so in advance. Otherwise, we are suggesting that we do not take our own regulations seriously. In Mrs Ouwehand's third motion, that is the motion in part No. It calls on the government to strengthen FVO and to carry out more announced audits. I want to strengthen the authority and organise more unannounced audits, but I want to do so in a way that also fits within the system that is now being chosen for the missions. In view of the fact that another motion has been tabled on this point, namely the motion by Mr Lodders and Mr Dikkers, I would prefer Mrs Ouwehand to support that motion. That is why I would advise against this motion. Sometimes it's very important how you put it, but that's important to me. Then I come to Mrs Dikkers' motion on part No. 455. I should also advise against this motion, because we have the legal obstacles in our sights. It is not possible in the context of the WTO; Mr Bashir also made that statement in one of his motions. I believe that the Minister of the United States of America has also stated this in detail in her letter to the Chamber. So we can now stack research on research, but I am not in favour of it; I think it would be better if, with perhaps even more energy, we could actually do what we have said, namely to ensure that animal welfare and sustainability become a non-trade group within the WTO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u96	The Secretary of State says with such aplomb that the letter from the Minister of the United States states that it is not allowed by the WTO. I have just asked in the case of interruption to explain why and on the basis of which articles this should not be done and why Europe has no independent competence in this matter. I think that's what the motion is asking for. I cannot find in the letter from the Minister of VWS what the legal basis for that position is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u97	It's a question of another's motion. It's not so common.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u98	That is not so common, but you have just heard me speak a lot of warm words about this motion in my second term, so I will allow myself to have that freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u99	Yes, but that's not a freedom you automatically coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u100	I just tried to explain. We can put it in a letter one more time, I do not think that is a problem, but that is not in this motion. This motion states that a whole new investigation must be carried out into what we already know. I'm not really in favour of investigating something you already know. Mr Schouw now asks me, following Mr Dikkers' motion, whether the cabinet can rewrite exactly how it works with the WTO and with animal welfare. We already know that, but I would like to ask for a letter before the Chamber one more time from my colleagues who have the lead. In my view, however, that is really different from what this motion is intended to do. The motion aims to re-examine and investigate what you already know, I find superfluous. That's why I advise against this motion. I would, of course, like to make a commitment to the letter, if it is appreciated by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u101	Let's do the piece by piece. We shall first go to the petitioner, Mrs Dikkers, to hear what she thinks of what the Secretary of State said about her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u102	I would like to amend the motion so that it is a letter. I do not care very much how the information comes to us, but I do want it to be stated in the letter in which articles it says that we should not do so. That's what the motion intended. I want to know where I can read back that we cannot meet the requirements for giving slaughter horses the same rights as those horses now have in the EU when they are transported to the slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u103	Perhaps the petitioner can hold her motion; then I will see to it that my colleagues send that letter to the Chamber. On the basis of the letter, Mrs Dikkers will then be able to assess whether she still wants an investigation, or whether the letter describes the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u104	I'm fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u105	At the request of Mrs Dikkers, I propose her motion (26991, No. 455). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u106	I assume that Mr Schouw will not then be in favour of a letter which leads to the provision of services in the departments; that is just as disrespectful as it is. I am referring to that further letter in which one more detailed explanation is given as to why something cannot be done. As the Secretary of State puts it, there will be a letter in which it will be very specific as to why what you want cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u107	I distance myself from your qualification that it is a question of providing employment, because the Chamber simply wants to know exactly what the legal obstacles are. I'm glad the Secretary of State is over the bridge and says she'll write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u108	Once again, I am very much prepared to have information that has already been sent to the Chamber at various times in all kinds of letters re-assessed and sent to the Chamber again. If Mr Schouw qualifies that as 'coming over the bridge', I am fine with that; then I am very happy to cross that bridge. The Bashir motion in part No. 456 for the same reason as the Old-Hand motion in part No. 452, which also called for a moratorium. Then I come to the motion for a resolution, Mr Bashir, on part No. 457. I would like to ask the author whether he means by his motion to say that animal welfare as a non-trade group should be recognised by the WTO, or whether he wants something other than what the government actually wants. I see from Mr Bashir that he means the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u109	Mr Bashir, would you like to use the microphone for posterity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u110	My answer via the microphone is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u111	That has been our intention for some time now, so I can only conclude that we do not need a motion for a resolution in itself. If the motion is to be interpreted in this way, I simply consider it to support policy. In that case, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. This is indeed our intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u112	I have one more question about the previous motion. The Secretary of State does not recommend this motion, but it is clear from the recital that sources show that it is a poor animal welfare situation. If this is apparent from sources, including the FVO, can we argue for it at European level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u113	No, because it also needs to be established whether this poses a direct risk to public health and therefore food safety, or whether it takes place in those slaughterhouses. To this end, additional checks will be carried out. Then there is the possibility to remove countries from the export list so that the meat can no longer be imported. That's what happened to Mexico. However, you will have to establish that. That is different from a moratorium, in which you say in advance: I am not going to investigate first, but I am going to start banning and then I will see if that has been right. That is exactly what Mr Bashir's motion calls for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u114	The FVO itself said in a hearing that the situation in Canada is very serious. At the moment when the FVO, which is the watchdog of the European Commission, says something like that, I think it is laid down. If not, what are the criteria for establishing it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u115	If the FVO determines that, the FVO will also have to act. We have the opportunity to end up with sanctions. This can be done if the situation is serious enough and there are, that is important, infringements on which the FVO can act. That's what they did in Mexico. So it has to be done by that route. However, that is a different route from that of a moratorium. This will always be done per individual country, but it may also be an individual slaughterhouse in a country. Because they can also be taken off the list. We all have these possibilities, and they must also be taken into account. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 458, which calls on the Government to take as a starting point any relevant multilateral or bilateral trade agreement to promote the inclusion of animal welfare, consumer and food safety issues. That's state-of-the-art policy. What does Mr Bashir ask more than we already do? If he doesn't ask for any more, but if he wants this recorded again, I'll leave it to the Chamber, because then it's just what we're doing. However, I wonder why Mr Bashir will then table the motion. If he wants more than that, he should write it down more precisely. Then we'll know what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u116	I am not the author of this motion, but I do have a question. I hear the Secretary of State say a number of times now: what are you asking for more than the current policy? The motion could therefore be superfluous. Of course, we keep each other a bit busy by recording everything again for all subjects. I can imagine that Mr Bashir would like to table a motion for a resolution once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u117	Yes, the verdict is therefore up to the Chamber. Again, I don't need this motion to do what it says. Mrs Lodders is absolutely right about that. I would like to say once again to the author that we are already doing what he advocates. If he wants more, he should write it down. I can then provide the motion with a value judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u118	I think there are some pretty important negotiations going on right now, including on TTIP. At the moment when the Chamber makes an important statement, as stated in the motion, the Secretary of State also has something to put on the table and can say that Parliament has requested it. This is an important subject for us; we can work with it! It is a point in the negotiations that it can put very hard on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u119	Of course, that's something we know about each other a long time ago. That's true. It's not the first time it's come out here in the Chamber. So it's rather unnecessary. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u120	So the final verdict is: Judgement Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u121	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Lodders and Mr Dikkers have tabled a motion on more unannounced controls by FVO. I have said that I want to do so and I want to raise it with the Commission, but I also need to ensure that I get more support from my colleagues in the Agriculture Council. In doing so, I would like to qualify this motion as support, as Mrs Lodder said. I think that's excellent: Judgement Room. Mr. Chairman. That puts me at the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u122	I don't see anyone jumping up protesting, so that's probably really the case. Thank you very much for coming and for the answers given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-20-tweedekamer-19.u123	The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 7.15 p.m. Why, subject to reservation? We are supposed to start with the VAO on the Ecofin Council, but the general consultation is still ongoing and could take a little longer than the initial time I mentioned.
