ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular Mrs Rebel of the PvdA, Mrs Van Ark of the VVD, Mrs Kooiman of the SP, Mrs Berndsen-Jansen of D66 and Mr Van Helvert of the CDA. I would then like to welcome the special delegates appointed by the States of Aruba, namely Mr Dammers of the AVP, also Vice-President of the States, Mr Sneek of the AVP, Mrs Ruiz-Madero of the MEP, Mr Thijsen of the MEP and Mr Bikker of the PDR. Behind the government table have taken place the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and the Minister responsible for Aruba, Mr. I would like to welcome you all. I would also like to welcome anyone who follows this debate in a way other than by physical presence. I have a few practical communications because this is a debate of a different nature than the debates we hold here. The States of Aruba have appointed five special delegates to speak this evening. I welcomed them in the beginning. With regard to the order, I have had a list of speakers on which the Dutch Members of Parliament will take the floor alternately with the Members of Aruba. In accordance with Article 17 of the Statute, contributions from the special delegates of the States of Aruba shall have the character of providing information. I would ask everyone to put the questions and interruptions briefly, in so far as there are questions and interruptions. I call Mrs Rebel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I too find this constellation special. I would like to welcome the delegates from Aruba and the Minister Plenipotentiary; you stayed longer after the IPKO (Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation), especially for the examination of this state law. I would like to express my appreciation for that. It won't stop, not by itself. I know them, the women who are victims of violence, violence that is usually inevitable, behind the front door, which we then call euphemist 'home'. I don't only know them from work as a general practitioner. I can remind them: their grief, their injuries, their fear, their self-blaming and their worries about the children. I realize that only those women I see dare to tell their story, but we all know women who are victims of violence. If you think you don't know them, it only indicates how important it is for us to talk about this today. We need to know them, because the numbers don't lie. Violence against women is endemic. Let me say first of all that my party is pleased that we are finally discussing the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and combating of violence against women and domestic violence. The Convention is unique in nature and constitutes an international legally binding and comprehensive instrument for active action in the areas of prevention, victim support and prosecution of offenders. A strong approach to violence against women and domestic violence is and remains necessary. For this reason, the Member States of the Council of Europe must address each other on the importance of early ratification. The Istanbul Convention is not just a European variant of the UN Women's Convention, but it captures the developments that have taken place at international level and is a comprehensive treaty with important tools for the various types of action that a government should take. Most of the obligations arising from the Treaty are in line with the Dutch policy on combating violence against women and domestic violence and the provision for that purpose in the Netherlands. There are only a few points that need to be adjusted. Above all, the Treaty of Istanbul creates obligations. It's not a non-binding signature that we put as a country. We are already well on the right track, but there are also concerns. First of all, I would like to mention the situation in the Caribbean Netherlands. Addressing domestic violence and violence against women there is a concern. Research shows that the Caribbean Netherlands does not yet fulfil its obligations under the Convention. The Labour Party is concerned about the nature and extent of domestic violence and sexual violence against women in the Caribbean Netherlands. The taboo on violence is high and there is no specific policy on tackling violence against women and domestic violence. The Labour Party finds it unacceptable that victims in the Caribbean Netherlands cannot receive the help they need and to which they are entitled. The aim of the Netherlands is to apply the Treaty there too, but as far as we are concerned this is still too non-binding. We are obliged to deal with domestic violence and other forms of violence that women become disproportionate victims of in the Caribbean Netherlands. That is why my party wants the National Representative for the Caribbean Netherlands to take a firm approach to domestic and sexual violence on the islands as a matter of urgency. The PvdA wants the necessary implementing legislation to be launched within a year to prevent and tackle violence. Can the Cabinet promise that it will make arrangements on this matter? We also want the Damage Fund Violent Crimes to apply to the Caribbean Netherlands. At the request of the PvdA, a prior consultation on victim policy was undertaken to examine the extension of the Fund's operation to the Caribbean Netherlands. There is still no concrete commitment that this will be dealt with, but I expect to get it today. The PvdA also wants the temporary home ban to be introduced as soon as possible in the BES islands. With that, a perpetrator of domestic violence can't be temporarily in or in her home anymore. During this period, no contact should be made with the partner or the children. The measure allows for an emergency to be provided with a cooling-off period during which the necessary assistance can be triggered and can be prevented from escalating. The ban may also be imposed in the event of child abuse or a serious suspicion thereof. We now have good experiences with this here in the Netherlands. We see that it is being expanded and we would like to have a study of the possibilities of shaping this in this way in the Caribbean Netherlands. Another important point is the registration of incidents of violence. It is currently fragmented, which is an obstacle to a good understanding of the nature and extent of the problem and can therefore, if it is done properly, provide a good basis for effective policies. Can the cabinet promise that an improvement path of registration will be deployed? This year research is also being carried out on the prevalence of domestic violence and child abuse in order to gain insight into nature and extent. I have already indicated in a consultation that this study should also look at the social costs of domestic violence and child abuse. Investing in vulnerable families and early warning to avoid violence as much as possible is not yet a reality. Understanding the overall social costs is important for a real cost-benefit analysis in view of the same prevention, regardless of the indication of social impact. My party is concerned about the specific problem of women with a dependent residence permit and of women without a residence permit. These women are in an extremely vulnerable situation when faced with violence. It is important that they are given better protection. Can the Cabinet indicate to what extent the justice chain pays attention to these vulnerable groups? Is the police sufficiently trained in problem recognition? Are all the declarations recorded? Last year we received signals from the action group She is here, about which I asked written questions. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he interpreted this signal and whether he recognizes it? How is asylum procedures handled with this vulnerable group? The ratification of the Convention and its new impetus coincide with important developments at municipal level. That is precisely where my party is concerned. Are there sufficient specialised care and care facilities for women and children who are victims of violence, such as for the victims of loverboys, with decentralisation? I refer here to a concern expressed yesterday by Fier Fryslân about the provision of shelter to this particular group. Precisely this very vulnerable group should not suffer from misprioritisation of local procurement policies. No woman, no girl, no child in danger should be placed in front of a closed door of the shelter. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether he is receiving such signals and, if so, what steps he is taking to prevent closed doors? Then I'd like to draw attention to female genital mutilation. Female genital mutilation cannot be changed as a cultural phenomenon by external pressure alone. Self-organisations and key people from ethnic groups of countries at risk play an important role in prevention. They make house visits and organise information meetings. From this year on, there will be no financial guarantee of the role of key players. That seems undesirable to our party. I'd like to get a reaction to this. In addition, doctors have a key role in signaling: you don't see it until you look at it. The willingness of doctors and youth assistance to cooperate with the judicial authorities to identify and report is an indispensable factor for successful law enforcement. The PvdA wants to know to what extent use is made of the possibility to periodically check the appearance of the genitals within the jgz controls, for example in young people from at-risk groups. Does the cabinet have numbers of this and how often has a prosecution in relation to female genital mutilation taken place in the past period? Just as the influx of refugees is increasing from areas where female genital mutilation occurs as a cultural phenomenon, good screening in reception is needed. Can the cabinet indicate to what extent there are data on this and is this seen as an additional focus in the reception? The English actress Emma Watson, known as Hermione in the Harry Potter movies, has given quite recently a high-profile speech to the United Nations. She said, among other things, "We want to try and galvanize as many men and boys as possible to be lawyers for gender equality. And we don't just want to talk about it, but make sure it's tangible." So Emma Watson formally invites all men to participate in the development of gender equality, because gender is also their problem. Why? It is actually very simple: so that your daughters, sisters and mothers can be free from prejudice, but also so that your sons may be vulnerable and human, she formulated it very beautifully. I assume that the men here in trade union K will act as champions of gender equality. I would call on them to involve their male colleagues, sons, brothers, all men and boys, too, in the importance of a world without violence against women, in which men and women may not be equal but equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u3	I shall now give the floor to Mr Dammers of the AVP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u4	Madam President, on behalf of the Delegation of the States of Aruba, I would like to thank you for planning the examination of this state law at the time when we are present in the Netherlands for consultations between the parliaments of the Kingdom. You have also been able to adjust the agenda in such a way that we are able to speak as special delegates on this important state law. We appreciate your efforts. We have previously gained experience with the direct participation in debates here in the House of Representatives. The last time was when the national laws of Curaçao and Sint-Maarten came into being in 2010. The good experiences of that time have led to an increase in the existing need to reduce the democratic deficit of the Kingdom. Last week, in a consultation between the parliaments of the countries of the Kingdom, the motion on the establishment of a settlement of disputes for the Kingdom, which was adopted by a large majority in this Chamber in 2010. As a result, a joint proposal from the four parliaments went to the government of the countries in which the four parliaments wished to see the settlement of disputes clarified. Even if it's been five years, our consultations have come to fruition. Proposals from both the House of Representatives and the parliaments of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten to further reduce the existing deficit need to be re-examined. The direct participation in the debate and the creation of laws directly affecting the Aruban community increase the acceptance of the Kingdom's community and strengthen the commitment of common interests, such as today the importance of protecting against violence. The legislative proposals under discussion are of great importance in all four countries of the Kingdom. The intensity or scope of the issue may vary from country to country, but unfortunately none of the countries can explain that the problem does not arise. However, this joint approach strengthens the strength with which we can strengthen the fight against violence in our communities, especially against women. I regret to note that the Aruban legislation in this area is not yet in order. From the Parliament, every effort will be made once again to encourage the government to give priority to the drafting of necessary legislation and the adoption of relevant policies. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you, Mr Dammers. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Ark of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. Behind the words of this law of approval and implementation lies a whole world, a very sad world, because so many women and girls have to deal with violence. In the Netherlands alone, a third of women have to deal with physical sexual violence at least once in their lives. There are around 100,000 reports of domestic violence every year, often involving children. And there are many more forms of violence. That means we're all involved, women and men. Even if it didn't happen to you, given these figures, we all have people in our immediate vicinity who have to deal with it, at home, in the family and friends circle and at work. The VVD has a long tradition in securing personal freedom and in ensuring the integrity of your own body. That is why we support the objective and ambitions of this law. The Treaty of Istanbul ensures that this issue is high on the political agenda, which is unfortunately urgently needed. We welcome the fact that countries make agreements on violence against women and can address each other. We also welcome the fact that the Treaty has made certain provisions in our own laws more stringent. The VVD welcomes the fact that individuals who are guilty of coercion or forced abortion can continue to be prosecuted and dealt with after a long time. We recognise and endorse the government's arguments on these points. In writing, we asked a number of questions. I thank the government for the answers. Most of the questions have been answered, but in general I would like to say a few things, for example about direct provisions in international treaties. We would like the government to show great restraint in this matter. Because no matter how good the intentions are, we would like to keep the primacy of political decision-making in the Netherlands. We are not in favour of braiding national and international legislation. In this treaty international agreements and Dutch legislation are in line with each other, but it is clear that we want the Dutch legislator to retain the political primacy. As has been said, the legislative changes that the government is making here have our approval. The explanatory memorandum and the note following the report indicate how the laws and agreements in the Netherlands have been shaped. There's a lot going on already. That is a good thing. We're taking the victim's side, not the unsub's. There are many forms of violence that rightly receive attention in the laws: forced marriages, female circumcision, domestic violence. In recent years, efforts have been made to take both preventive and repressive measures. Here a compliment fits all those people who work in organizations, from the DA to the police, from the welfare worker to the teacher. Because, in the end, all these agencies, telephone numbers, training and policy objectives are just a prerequisite. The most important thing is that the people behind and in all these organizations are willing to really look, really listen and really do what is needed. Awareness and procedures may be a necessary condition, but not a sufficient condition. I am thinking of the civil servant of the municipality who has doubts about a passport application from a young girl to a faraway country, and who contacts the school to discuss whether there is a possible wedding incentive. That takes space. The fact that people are leading and not systems is one of the characteristics of decentralisation. We therefore see decentralisation as a great opportunity for an effective approach to violence. It is also necessary for women to call the bell themselves or help them to do so, for themselves, for others in their environment and for their children. I would also like to draw attention to the digital security component. Because violence also develops and takes on other forms through the digital revolution. A lot is warned of shady figures on dating sites; men who know exactly which women are vulnerable and easy to pack. Catfishing is called it, in policy jargon: dating fraud. Once you're in love with it, the first euros have been deposited because his wallet has been stolen and he's so eager to buy that ticket to Schiphol to be with you, then there's often a downward spiral of shame and bankruptcy due to ingenious communication technology and sometimes flat blackmail. There are often organized gangs from distant countries behind them, who work very professionally on social media and dating sites. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether there are any known numbers and whether the authorities involved in violence are equipped for this purpose? Of course, it is primarily important for women to think carefully about who they are in digital contact with. Because if it's too good to be true, then it's too good to be true. The environment can also help to raise awareness. If you've been fooled, is there any way to address false identities? After all, they are people who say online that they are quite different from what they really are. What can we do about it? Is the legislation equipped with these practices? Do we have control over international networks that are working on this? What would that take? The aim of this Convention is to combat violence against women and girls. A world in which you grow up safely and in which no really means no and in which you have an equal relationship of your choice, with the guarantee that your body is not affected or mutilated. Yes, I do. I'd love to. But the rights of women and girls are not compared for nothing with those of the canary in the mine: when the oxygen runs out, the canary is the first to die. In Western societies, too, the rights of women and girls remain more than worth fighting for. Civilisation is measured by the way in which a society deals with these issues. Still there is, sometimes unspoken, blame to a girl who is raped that she should have changed her clothes. However, the reproach should be that a man should take no for no as well. A social debate and strong legislation fit in here. It is also necessary for people in organisations to look beyond their checklist if there is a victim in front of them. As the employee of the social service who, after talking to a couple, has doubts about domestic violence and brings women back under the heading of a training course and talks to her about assistance. Like the dentist who, during a regular half-yearly check, has confirmed her suspicions that a child is being abused and is sending in AMK. Like the group of friends guarding that one of the girlfriends doesn't cross the line by sending money to an Internet love. The elimination of violence may be an illusion, but we cannot stop the ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u7	I call Mr Tijsen of the MEP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u8	Madam President. It is a pleasure to be here in the Lower House of the States-General. It reminds me of April 2010, when we were present as special delegates for the amendment of the Staff Regulations. Today we are talking about the legislative proposal Adoption of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, adopted in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. Pursuant to Article 1 of the Bill, the Convention is approved for the whole of the Kingdom. The Treaty is an important contribution to the pan-European fight against violence against women and domestic violence. Violence against women and girls and domestic violence are a problem, not only in the Netherlands, but also elsewhere in Europe and beyond. This means that this also applies to us in Aruba and in the other countries within the Kingdom. We are talking about serious forms of violence and lighter forms of violence, but they remain serious acts of violence. Unfortunately, we are also experiencing these forms of violence in our country. We are also talking about trafficking in human beings. Many women and children are victims of trafficking in human beings and female victims are exploited in the sex industry. Aruba is located in the Caribbean region of Latin America. In that region we are dealing with cases of trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. We're concerned about the situation in Venezuela. In recent years, many Venezuelan citizens have taken the step to get to Aruba by sea. Many large groups of people have come to Aruba. There have been cases where people have been drowned in the sea in a strange way. We don't have any numbers, but that's what happened. UNICEF reports on children's rights indicate that domestic violence is a major problem in the Caribbean countries within the Kingdom. The Convention is comprehensive and multidisciplinary in nature. It has a number of objectives, as Article 1 shows. They are all important, but I would like to emphasise the objective of providing support and assistance to organisations and law enforcement bodies in order to work effectively together to adopt an integrated approach to eradicate violence against women and domestic violence. So it's about cooperation. Cooperation is essential, especially because we still need implementing legislation. We want cooperation in the Kingdom and we will therefore table a motion in the second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u9	Mr. Chairman. In particular, I would like to welcome our five guests to Parliament. It is a very beautiful and special opportunity to have another country in our kingdom among us who is debating with us. In particular, welcome to the Minister responsible for Aruba. I am very curious to see how he views this treaty and how he sees the effect of this treaty on Aruba. Everything, everything is there to prevent violence against women and domestic violence. In the Netherlands, 45% of men and women aged between 18 and 70 have been victims of domestic violence. The victims are mostly female. Domestic violence is also the most common cause of murder and manslaughter. So we're talking about a very big problem. It is therefore very good that better agreements are made and measures are taken. The SP naturally supports the intentions as described in the treaty. But, of course, everything stands and falls with the elaboration of the Treaty. Our group does have a number of questions about this. Providing safe care remains crucial in providing protection for women fleeing domestic violence. Article 23 of the Treaty obliges Member States, including the Netherlands and Aruba, to provide adequate safe reception places in situations of serious domestic violence. However, the question is whether the Netherlands can comply with the Treaty, as the new national distribution model ensures that center municipalities suddenly have to reduce shelters. Two months ago, I mentioned the example of the municipality of Tilburg, where Kompaan and De Bocht have a nationally recognised function in the care of victims of honour-related violence and youth prostitution. But the money they got for this nationwide task was then cut off. I raised this with the U.S. Secretary of State. He said he'd like to look at this. I am very curious to see how this consultation has gone and whether a solution has now been found. Then, for example, we are talking about a solution in Flevoland. That is where the worrying reports came from that the crisis response is often full. I also mention the problem of Fier Fryslân, which the Labour Party has just raised. This institution reported two days ago that there is a shortage of specialised shelters and treatment sites for victims of loverboys. That's impossible, isn't it? I therefore ask the Secretary of State of the United States of America and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, who is jointly responsible, to limit this situation and to ensure adequate reception places. The Federation Opvang also pulls the bell at the State Secretary of VWS to take another look at the new distribution model. Can the U.S. Secretary of State guarantee that there is and will be a nationwide coverage system of women's care? How's he gonna take care of this? Not only for adults, access to good care and guidance is a problem. That's what it is for children who are victims of abuse. For a year now, the SP, like the Labour Party, has been calling for attention to the problem that many children who were victims of abuse do not receive treatment. You want these kids treated as soon as possible to avoid worse. Three quarters of that group of children have no disorder at the start of the treatment. You often want them to get the treatment, to prevent a disorder. I deliberately say "treatment," because a few conversations with social work are often not enough for these children. We can't wait for these kids to develop a post-traumatic stress disorder. They must be entitled to treatment so that this can be prevented. Unfortunately, municipalities have agreed that no more ggz treatment should take place than the years before. But in the years before, of course, three-quarters of the number of children was not treated either. Some children who are victims of abuse or who were involved have not yet developed any disorder. But they have to get that treatment. Is the Secretary of State gonna make sure those kids get this treatment? Then I come to the next topic. Only 28% of the number of reports of domestic violence reported to the police, for example, is reported. In 18% of the cases, the unsub of the incident was apprehended. Why are these percentages so low? This is actually a question for the Minister, but I assume the Secretary of State for Security and Justice can also answer him. Moreover, the figures are old; there may be newer figures. However, it is the figures that have come to my attention. The National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children says that there is not enough expertise among the public prosecutors and the police. She points out that training is extremely important for a successful approach. How does this Secretary of State intend to deal with this? I can see him nodding, but I hope he means yes and so comes up with a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u10	You say, "I see him nodding." I can see why the Secretary of State does that. This question is very much outside the scope of the debate. Otherwise, the minister should have been invited here. It's not his wallet for nothing. As always in such a case, I ask the members of the cabinet to try to answer the question. Otherwise, they always have the opportunity to pass on the question. Then we'll get back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u11	I thought the Secretary of State was wise enough to solve it like this. However, I also assume that the cabinet always talks with one mouth. I am therefore very pleased that the Secretary of State is at least taking the trouble to answer this question. The promotion of expertise also applies, of course, to the legal profession. When registering, the Legal Assistance Board applies a number of general expertise requirements for lawyers assisting victims of violence and sexual crimes. However, there are no specific registration conditions for lawyers assisting victims of trafficking in human beings. Why is this not the case with trafficking in human beings? In what way will domestic violence and human trafficking be addressed during the training of attorney-trainees? Mr President, this is the same problem. I'm aware of it. Oh, the same goes for the following points!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u12	You may also skip those points and raise them in written questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u13	Well, I guess I'll do that. The probation is my next topic. Fortunately, that's what the Secretary of State is about. If perpetrators are brought to justice, there will be probation surveillance. We have already had a brief debate on this subject, and that was the VAO Reclassification in which we pointed out to the Secretary of State that parole supervision of of offenders is also very important. I hope the Secretary of State will state that this monitoring will continue and we will not be given waiting lists. I hope he will make a great effort to prevent this from disappearing. Finally, I would like to mention another point: marriage imprisonment. That's a big problem, too. Last January, 25-year-old Yasmeen was strangled by her husband. She was the victim of marriage imprisonment. In many cases, authorities do not identify what is going on or do not know how to deal with it. Here, too, the question was raised: have instances picked up previous signals and concerns sufficiently? In September, Minister Asscher, in reply to Parliamentary questions, said that any girl who is a victim of this should be helped. I ask the directors what measures they have taken in the meantime. There are a lot of points to be raised in this treaty. This is mainly due to the fact that everything stands for a good effect. I wish the directors every success in replying later, even if the questions are a little out of order in this debate. I thank them in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u14	I call Mr Sneek of the AVP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u15	Madam President. I would like to begin my contribution by saying a word of thanks to you. Violence against women and domestic violence has now become an international problem, as witnessed by the present treaty. Many studies and studies show that a difference in training can play an important role in this and can be an important cause. Girls and young women take their chances and get the best out of their education and opportunities. Boys tend to hang out strongly in macho behavior, especially focused on indifference, power and strength. In finding a life partner, this difference is proving to be a major problem. For men, strength is often an ultimate outlet. The Aruban society was traditionally a society in which the man earned a living and the wife cared for the children. That situation has changed. In the meantime, there is much more talk of a society in which women take care of everything. The Aruban woman is the strong sex. She raises the children, mostly without the father's practical and financial help. It earns its living and follows studies and training. However, it has to be said that a large proportion of women are still financially dependent on men who, in turn, take advantage of this opportunity. Education seems to be one of the ways in which it can be used to combat this phenomenon. We believe that, if we read the answers correctly, there is a lot of material that can be used to combat this violence. We in Aruba believe that these materials can certainly be of use to us. That is why we will also table a motion in the second round to ask the Secretary of State if we can use those materials in Article 15, or if at least the countries can obtain this information and materials in order to make this process a better process. The Netherlands is farther away in the various legislation on this issue. We still have a long way to go. The idea is to ensure that by the end of this year everything is in order to be able to implement this treaty. That's the idea. We will therefore be able to use the materials in Article 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we can have this debate with the participation of the special delegates and the Minister responsible for the Caribbean Netherlands. After all, this is a subject that affects all of us. Every year, 220,000 adults are victims of severe structural violence in the home and 1 million adults are victims of occasional domestic violence. The complexity of domestic violence requires a coordinated and comprehensive approach. Domestic violence involves both male and female offenders and victims. We must continue to realise that tonight's other topic, violence against women, is more than domestic violence alone. This includes revenge, genital mutilation, marriage coercion, trafficking in human beings and sexual violence. For D66 it's clear. We signed this treaty in 2012, but it has still not been ratified. We support the strengthening of the position of butcher sacrifices, the detection and handling of perpetrators and the prevention of intergenerational transfer. D66 is pleased to see how few adjustments we really need to make in order to implement the Convention. As a spokesman for the judiciary, it will not surprise anyone that it is important that the rights and interests of suspects should also be taken into account in the implementation of this Convention. My group remains concerned about the coordination of this treaty. It's currently in VWS. I do not see the mayors in the proposals at all, while they play such an important role in domestic violence. The imposition of a temporary ban on housekeeping falls within their competence. The police, too, have long had a national program of domestic violence. The police are now conducting biennial analyses and OCW is further investigating the intergenerational transfer. These are important instruments to be used. Tonight's topics mainly concern criminal law. This doesn't really fit VWS. It is therefore a good thing that there are two State Secretarys present. D66 calls for a proper infrastructure for the implementation of this Convention. Isn't it more logical that the coordination lies with V and J and not with VWS? Domestic violence is not just physical or psychological violence between marriage partners. It also happens that one partner steals or extorts another. Money is also being embezzled and property is being destroyed. This can have a major impact on economic independence, especially on women. In our modern society, we want women to stand on their own feet as much as possible. We want them to be economically independent and participate in the labour market. Then we cannot look away if, within the marriage or registered partnership, women's ability to stand on their own feet is undermined and undermined. D66 therefore believes it is right that the Convention should explicitly also make economic violence within marriage criminal; see Article 3 of the Convention. It is an omission that the Netherlands, for one thing, legally excludes the prosecution of economic violence within marriage. The Council of State has already pointed this out, but the cabinet has barely touched on this point. That surprises us very much, because this is the opportunity to settle this important issue now. As a society, we are beyond the point of looking away from what is happening behind the front door, aren't we? We want to make it easier for women to participate fully. It is high time to modernise Article 316 (1) and Article 90c of the Criminal Code and to criminalise and open up property offences within the marriage and registered partnership. How's the cabinet in there? Does it share this plea from the D66 Group? Is the cabinet willing to take care of this? We have another question about Article 12. This article states that culture, custom, religion, tradition or so-called "honour" must not be used to justify acts of violence. The Dutch Bar Association states that this article should be waived, because it would be too general and too definite. According to the order, the article does not allow for the social context of events. I would like to hear a reflection of the Secretary of State for Security and Justice on these two contradictions. A gender-neutral formulation and a gender-sensitive approach to violence can reinforce each other. D66 agrees. As the police indicated, it is not insignificant to recognise female perpetratorship in this context. In the case of honour-related violence, more men than women are killed. D66 likes to see this included in the policy. We need to understand the role that gender plays in the emergence and continuation of partner violence. Does the Secretary of State agree with us and can he indicate how he is going to implement this? It is clear to us that information is important. The treaty requires us to do the same. Awareness campaigns ensure that topics are discussed. "It doesn't stop, not by itself" was a visible campaign. Mr Rebel mentioned it as well. The campaign is probably still in the minds of many: it was so intrusive that you could hardly let it go. But the campaign only ran until 2014. We believe it is very important that such campaigns are repeated at regular intervals. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he can indicate whether there are any campaigns going on at the moment. If not, what campaigns are still coming to bring domestic violence to the fore? Guaranteed anonymity in reporting violence is extremely important for reporting readiness. For D66 it is very important that the phone number of the AMHK can be called anonymously and at a normal rate. Since this is still unclear after reading the letters, I ask the Secretary of State if the phone number of the AMHK can be called anonymously and at a normal rate and if the number also appears on the account. Hopefully, I'll get a positive reaction to this. Finally, the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. In the coming years, it will be examined with the partners how a sound basic approach to violence against women and domestic violence can be achieved there too. D66 is pressing the Secretary of State to speed this up. There's a great treaty in front of us. In many respects, the Netherlands meets the requirements for implementation. That is why I would say: get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u17	I call Mr Bikker of the PDR.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u18	Madam President. Today we are discussing the Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. It's a pleasure to be standing here. This gives both pleasure and cause for reflection. I'll tell you why it gives rise to reflection in a moment. We accept all kinds of treaties, but we also have to implement them. According to page 10 of the explanatory memorandum, the Netherlands is obliged to condemn all forms of discrimination against women and to take measures to prevent discrimination. See Article 4 (2) of the Convention. In the Netherlands all kinds of lectures are charged with this, such as the College of Human Rights. Aruba has a very modern constitution, the state regime, which is the first article to contain a ban on discrimination, but does not have a specific High College of State in charge of its review or implementation. One must end up with the "residual judge," as it is called in legal terms, the bourgeois judge. As a result, last week, we adopted a tripartite resolution in which we said that, in view of the fact that Saint Martin already has a constitutional court, we would also like to establish a constitutional court in cooperation with Saint Martin and the countries of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom, in particular for the implementation in the light of Article 4 (2) of the Treaty. I shall come back to the reflection that gives me reason for this moment. We are special delegates on the basis of Article 17 of the Statute. Unfortunately, it is more than five years ago that we stood here. It can't be that we're here on average every five years. I shall be tabling a motion on this in a moment, because I would like to avoid having to wait another five years for us to be able to participate in and participate in an issue as important as the adoption of a treaty. But I am also thinking here of the national laws that are still commuting, for example the registration of sea-going vessels, and other national laws that govern our jurisdictions. I think we should adopt this motion so that we can get together more structuredly and more often to deal with such national laws in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert from the CDA, but not after I have perhaps pointed out to everyone that an amendment has come from his hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome the authorised minister and the special delegates. Welcome to the House of Representatives! The first decade of the 21st century I was a teacher in secondary education and mentor of a second and a third and later of a fourth and a fifth grade. As a teacher and mentor in secondary education, you can often watch literally and figuratively behind the front door. This topic is common to all sections of the population. When you talk to students and mothers, you see the pain and fear and especially the impossible loyalty crisis or the impossible loyalty conflict. The look in these people's eyes is heartbreaking. Although I am not the permanent spokesman on this dossier, I would like to say that, like Mrs Keijzer, I have an intrinsic motivation to take care of these matters as well as possible. From that point of view, we are looking at this treaty today, but from that point too, like one of my predecessors, I would like to draw attention to the article in the newspaper that says that victims of loverboys are nowhere to go at the moment. That is something we certainly should not want in the Netherlands. I would like to see the cabinet pay more attention to this. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals: the legislative proposal for the adoption of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence and the Implementing Act to this Convention. My introduction has probably already shown that on behalf of the CDA I can be brief about the treaty itself: violence against women and children and domestic violence are unacceptable. It is therefore a good thing that the Council of Europe also pays attention to preventing and combating this. The treaty can therefore count on the approval of my group. I do have a single question about the Treaty and the Caribbean Netherlands. The treaty will not apply to Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba for the time being, because the Caribbean part of the Netherlands lacks specific policies against violence against women and domestic violence. In reply to the written questions, the government writes that a basic approach has been established there and that, on the basis of its experience, it will be considered in 2016 which implementing law is necessary. What is the status of this basic approach and in what time does the government think it is realistic to accept this agreement for the Caribbean part of the Netherlands? The same goes for Aruba. The government there is working on an implementation plan. Is there any more information on the state of this and is it known when Aruba will also be able to accept the Convention? I come to the implementation of the Convention. Only a few elements require additional regulation. The statute of limitations in the Criminal Code should be amended and the Extradition Act supplemented. Finally, the preparation of marriage coercion is punishable. That is a good thing. On this last point, criminalising the preparation of marriage coercion, the CDA has a question. Marriage coercion usually takes place in the closeness of the family circle and is sometimes committed in the country of origin. Victims are in an isolated position and do not dare or want to press charges out of shame, loyalty to the family or fear of violence. Sometimes they are children who are left in the country of origin during a holiday and are forced to marry. It is clear that the consequences of marriage coercion are great and profound. In 2013, the possibilities for the criminal approach to marriage coercion were extended. For example, the maximum sentence for marriage coercion that can be imposed at the time has been increased to two years in prison. At the time, it was also included in the Code of Criminal Law that pre-trial detention could be imposed for wedlock in order, for example, to prevent escalation and to ensure the safety of the victim. The draft law we are discussing today not only makes it possible to enforce marriage law, but also to make preparations for marriage law punishable by penalties of up to one year's imprisonment. Can the Secretary of State indicate how this will be maintained? How do you prove that, of course, it's hard to know that someone's in the process of preparing marriage coercion? Do the National Police and the Public Prosecutor have sufficient knowledge and skills and, perhaps even more importantly, sufficient capacity to maintain them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u21	You can finish the part of your speech on marriage law before I give Mrs. Rebel an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u22	There is a second point in relation to marriage coercion on which the CDA wishes to make a comment. I am referring to the amendment that we have tabled. As the bill now states, the preparation of premarital detention would not be possible. But is it not wiser to include the possibility of detention in the preparation of marriage coercion, where victims are lured abroad in some cases? Why does the government believe that marriage coercion itself should avoid the risk of escalation, but not the presumption of prep for marriage coercion? We have tabled an amendment to this effect. I would like to invite the Cabinet to consider how it could embrace this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u23	It sounds very good what Mr Van Helvert says about preparatory actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u25	In this respect, therefore, I would like to congratulate him on the option he wishes to include in the amendment. It's an important point, though. It may be possible to indicate in the reply why this has not been included. I'm sure there's a very legitimate reason for that. It won't have happened without good motivation. I am particularly concerned about the following. How should we appoint preparatory actions in this respect, and who is involved in this? I can imagine that we would all have to take fathers, brothers, cousins, mothers or aunts into remand. Can Mr Van Helvert explain how he sees this, with a concrete example? Otherwise, I would like to support his question to the cabinet as to how the cabinet sees it and why it has not been elected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u26	I think this is a fair question. I indicated this myself in my speech. How do you show that there is such preparation? The evidence is already very difficult. The fact that we are going to make it a criminal offence makes me suspect, so I can pass on Mrs Rebel's question to the cabinet that the cabinet knows a way to prove this. If you can prove this and if you say it's a criminal offence, I'd say, let's take the possibility of remand. After all, you want to avoid escalation if it is already a fact, but we want to avoid this escalation as well as we know it is in preparation. Then we do not want the preparation to continue. However, I think Mrs Rebel's question of how to do that is a very good one, and I have just asked it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u27	I can only confirm that prevention is always better than cure. You should also be careful what the negative consequences may be, including for the victim, especially if you do apply pre-trial detention and the situation turns out to be very complicated afterwards or there is no marital coercion. It is an instrument that must be used carefully. If you'd bet it already, it shouldn't lead to negative effects. Let us indeed await the answer that the cabinet will give to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u28	Of course, it is right that we do not want to have any negative effects, especially for the victim. In cases like this, I think you should take the victim as a starting point. As soon as there is a suspicion and you can prove it, you will have to build in the possibility of pre-trial detention, with all the reservations that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u29	I wonder what reservations these are. It is not customary in our criminal law that when we suspect a crime or an act, we already place someone in remand. It is a very strict measure which is irreversible at that time. How is the CDA going to ensure that it is applied in a legitimate way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u30	Now it's gonna be exciting, because I'm gonna argue with a lawyer when I'm not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u31	For the Acts, I'm not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u32	Apologies. I understand you've just studied a little more law than I have. If this isn't the case...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u33	You can also know something about the law if you've worked with the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u34	That's right. The point is, the CDA wants to stand up for the victims. I'm sure that's what Mrs Berndsen wants. The fact that the cabinet itself says that it is going to criminalize the preparation for marriage coercion means, in my view, that the cabinet sees opportunities to prove it. My question was just right: how do you prove it? If we say that we can prove that, we must also draw the consequence that you should take the possibility of remand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u35	Then we're already talking about evidence, not suspicion. There's a big difference. I suggest we get the Secretary of State to answer this question, because he is a lawyer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u36	Yes, thank you. It's a good thing we're discussing this here. It is very important and I welcome the fact that we are debating it. I come back to the experience where my intrinsic motivation comes from to speak on this matter today. The worst part is when girls and women in situations like that think they're on their own and they're on their own. For them, I have the following announcement: it is not your fault and we can help. It is our moral obligation, together with the Cabinet, to ensure that this is always the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u37	I call Mrs Ruiz-Maduro of the MEP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. In Aruba, we are also dealing with violence against women and domestic violence. This has negative effects on the well-being of our women and, above all, on the healthy development of our children. We are receiving various signals from society that are related to domestic violence by various public and private bodies. For example, the teenage pregnancy, Aruba, is the leader in the region of..... and drop-outs. Domestic violence makes studying difficult and often leads to breakdown. These signals are of concern to us. This social problem is greater than what we read in the newspapers or could hear from police records. The investigation into the approach to domestic violence in Aruba in 2013 revealed that there is an under-registration of domestic violence and that police are sometimes called twice or three times in one day to mediate in a situation of domestic violence. A national study on domestic violence is lacking so far. Therefore, no body on Aruba has any idea of the seriousness of the situation in our country. However, I can mention that there is a proposal for a national inquiry on the subject from Mrs Merval of the Fundacion pa Estudio di Genero y Famia, a foundation dedicated to gender and family research, but unfortunately the funds for this research are not yet available. I would like to see such an investigation, whether or not in cooperation with the other countries in the Kingdom, carried out in Aruba in the short term. As far as legislation is concerned, we are currently working on an implementation path. It can be noted that the Land Regulation has not yet been concluded on a temporary basis, as we are not yet in a position to comply with a number of conditions for this purpose. In Aruba, for example, there are no reception facilities for men who are perpetrators, but sometimes also victims of violence. In short, much remains to be done in Aruba before we can comply with the present treaty, but in the interests of women and especially in the interests of all children in Aruba, I hope that this state law will give an impetus to all the countries of the Kingdom to assist each other with their knowledge and expertise, so that we can fight together against violence against women and against domestic violence. Finally, I have a question for the Secretary of State. What could the Netherlands do for Aruba in achieving concordance in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u39	This is of course a unique opportunity to talk not only about Aruba, but also to Aruba representatives. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mrs Ruiz-Maduro a question she has just asked the cabinet. Perhaps I can give her that question back and she can give the cabinet a move on how the government can help Aruba. How does Mrs Ruiz-Maduro see a possible contribution from the Netherlands to helping combat violence against women and domestic violence in Aruba?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thanks for asking. As I said in my speech, we in Aruba have indeed no idea of the whole. We do not know how serious it is. We do have bodies working on this, but we do not have a national investigation. In order to tackle this problem, not only help is needed for legislative consistency. As I said, an important piece of legislation such as the Land Regulation is not yet in place. This also has to do with the lack of legislative lawyers. This leads to higher priority laws. That's something concrete where you could get help. As I said, there is also a need for a national inquiry. That is urgently needed at the moment. Then you can also get a picture of the causes and consequences of the problem. Then you have cooperation from everyone in the field and that would help. Then it will also become clear that helping to register it is very important, for example in police registration. During an investigation into domestic violence in 2013, it was also found that the problem lies with the police registration, because the system is not user-friendly. The problem is not registered and then there is a domino effect in everything that can be done. Cooperation with the Netherlands and with the other countries in the Kingdom could certainly bear fruit in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u41	First, the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport will speak and then the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. The Minister responsible has indicated that he will not speak in this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the special delegates and the Minister responsible for their presence and their input. They have asked questions and made a number of suggestions, including to the Government of Aruba. I think it would be appropriate if I asked the Minister responsible to discuss these questions and comments, as well as the comments I will make in this debate, with his colleagues in Aruba. I very much appreciate the input and I will try to take this into account in my reply. The Treaty of Istanbul is an important mark in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence. The Netherlands has them high on the priority list, but it is also very important that international developments are also recorded in the fight against violence against women and domestic violence, as Mrs Rebel said. On behalf of my colleagues from OCW, Foreign Affairs and Security and Justice, I am pleased that there is such broad support in this Chamber for the proposal for a state law approving this treaty. Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Berndsen pointed out that violence against women and domestic violence is a major problem not only in the Netherlands but also elsewhere in Europe. Last year a European report was published with indeed shocking figures on violence against women. In the Netherlands, around 220,000 adults are victims of severe and structural violence in domestic circles every year. Mrs Berndsen also mentioned this figure in her contribution. That is why I think it is important, as an anchor point, for this treaty to come into force in the Netherlands. In doing so, we once again strongly stress the importance of tackling violence against women in the domestic sphere. The objectives of the Convention are: to protect women from violence, to contribute to the elimination of all forms of discrimination, to establish a framework with policies and measures to protect victims of violence, to cooperate internationally, and to provide support and assistance to organisations and law enforcement bodies in order to cooperate effectively to eradicate violence against women in the domestic sphere by means of an integrated approach. The objectives of the Convention and the resulting obligations are in line with the Dutch policy on tackling violence in dependency relationships and the provisions that have been made for this purpose in the Netherlands, as laid down for example in the Social Support Act. The Dutch legislation implementing the Convention needs to be adapted only on a limited number of points. This concerns the Code of Criminal Law and the Extradition Act. This is done by means of the implementing law. This law is dealt with in conjunction with the law on approval. My colleague from V and J will go into this in more detail. There has been talk of the Caribbean Netherlands. It is extremely important that the Treaty also applies to the Caribbean Netherlands. That is why, together with the Ministry of Security and Justice and the Ministry of Education, I have had an investigation conducted to determine what measures need to be taken in the Caribbean Netherlands to comply with that convention. This study, which was carried out last year, shows that the Caribbean Netherlands is not yet in a position to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty. That is why we are first working on establishing a basic approach to domestic violence in the Caribbean Netherlands, and then on to full implementation of the Convention. The Treaty can then also be accepted for this part of the Netherlands. In order not to delay the ratification process of the European Netherlands, it has been decided not to apply the Convention to the Caribbean Netherlands for the time being, but to take action to ensure that that basic approach is implemented. The public bodies and the government have now identified the approach to domestic violence and the safeguarding of children's rights in the Caribbean Netherlands as priority themes in the multi-annual Caribbean Netherlands programme. Mrs Rebel and Mr Van Helvert asked what is happening in this area. In June 2014, a Task Force on Children's Rights and Domestic Violence was set up in the Caribbean Netherlands to draw up a plan of approach to domestic violence by island. Under the direction of this task force, hard work has been done to draw up these plans. Next week, in the Caribbean Netherlands week of 2015, these plans will be decided. Furthermore, there is talk about the further development and the desired support from the European Netherlands. We will then examine, on the basis of the implementation, what additional measures and what implementing legislation are necessary and the time limit for the acceptance of the Caribbean Netherlands Convention. That will be in 2016. I intend to inform the Chamber regularly about the progress. I propose to do so in the already agreed reports on violence in dependency relationships, which will be sent regularly to the Chamber. A number of questions have also been asked about the situation in the Netherlands and the significance of ratification in its full breadth for all governments. In fact, this means that municipalities are bound, in principle, to the same extent as the government. Due to the Wmo 2015, municipalities are in a position to combat violence against women and violence in a domestic environment and to provide good help to the victims. Prevention, alerting, stopping violence and providing assistance can be tackled in a coherent manner under the direction of the municipality. They must take responsibility for this. I shall come back to this later on on the basis of a number of specific questions. Municipalities, of course, have freedom of policy, but must act in accordance with the Treaty when making use of that freedom of policy. From my responsibility, I want to give municipalities room to fulfil new responsibilities. That's what Mrs. Van Ark said. In this context, a number of support programmes are being implemented by the VNG with the funding of the Empire to tackle dependency violence. I call the Region Approach Safe Home. A further quality impulse has been agreed with the Federation Opvanging. I refer to the development of the Safe Home Organizations. I shall also inform the Chamber on this matter half-yearly by means of the progress reports on violence in dependency relationships. In the coming period, I will, of course in consultation with the VNG and the Federation Reception, work out how this can be further followed up and monitored in the system of tackling domestic violence. This also raises the question of how to best monitor compliance with the Convention by municipalities. In order to implement the convention on the part of the municipalities, I will also ask the VNG to draw up a factsheet for municipalities to inform them of the obligations arising from this convention. A number of specific questions have been asked about gender policy. Mrs Rebel and Mrs Berndsen drew attention to this. The Treaty requires the Netherlands to pursue a gender-sensitive policy. Dutch policy focuses on all victims and all forms of domestic violence, and is therefore, as it were, gender neutrally formulated. The cabinet takes the view that, in a gender-neutral policy framework, it may be necessary to make a gender-sensitive approach more effective, particularly in the area of domestic violence. It is clear that gender plays an important role in the emergence and survival of domestic violence. This means that gender-related factors, differences in male and female positions of power, relevant stereotypes, socio-cultural role patterns, role expectations and the impact of policies should be addressed in policy but also in implementation. Where necessary, these factors should be taken into account. In short, the importance of a gender-sensitive policy is endorsed by the Cabinet. In this context, my colleagues from Education and V and J are working with me on a project to increase expertise on gender among municipalities, police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and Safe Home organisations. Mrs Rebel spoke to us as men; of course I am touched by that. She said that, not only in education, but also in contacts and in our contacts in society, we must ensure that a world without violence against women may not be realized tomorrow, but at least remains an ambition for the day after tomorrow. I now come to the answer of a number of specific questions. Mrs Rebel and Mrs Kooiman have asked a number of questions about the effects of the distribution model and have referred to the situation in Tilburg. In the general consultation held on 15 April last, I promised the Chamber to discuss some of the issues relating to women's care during an aldermen's meeting with the central municipalities. Firstly, I asked the aldermen to take an early decision on the Council's opinion on the financial relations between the AWBZ funds added to the decentralisation allowance for women. I have also stressed the need for good agreements to be made on the capacity of women's care, particularly when it comes to crisis relief. I have also indicated that I will keep the center municipalities to the agreement that with regard to children in the women's shelter, the tried and tested methodology will be used. Finally, I drew the attention of the aldermen to the concerns expressed by the municipality of Tilburg and Kompaan and De Boch about the system of women's care. The aldermen have informed me that they will take a decision on the opinion of the Financial Relations Council in the Administrative Advisory Committee on Health and Wellness on 2 July. During that aldermen's meeting, the VNG, together with the Federation of Reception, called for the current system, which works with the so-called policy framework influx, to continue to be respected. All aldermen agreed to this. This means that municipalities will continue to jointly guarantee that in the event of an acute threat, reception must always be available. The aldermen have also informed me that with regard to the appointment of children in women's care, the proven methodology will be used and the UNG and the Federation of Reception will be involved in following these agreements. The aldermen also looked at the situation in Tilburg and found that good national agreements were made regarding the reception of victims of honour-related violence by Kompaan and De Bocht. For these victims, the municipality of Tilburg does not have to make agreements, because they were made jointly by the aldermen, among others. I note that the aldermen assume their responsibilities in ensuring good crisis management, that agreements have been made on this in the framework of the quality impulse and that the center municipalities will monitor the results of the quality impulse together with the Federation of Reception. I imagine that this issue will also be dealt with in the six-monthly report we are reporting on violence in dependency relationships. Mrs Rebel has asked a number of questions about the prevalence study on domestic violence. She asked whether a cost-benefit analysis would be included. I'm having a little trouble with that term. That is not because I am against costs and benefits, but because combating violence in dependency relationships is obviously not a cost-benefit analysis. I understand that Mrs Rebel means that this helps everyone to understand that there are high social costs associated with the existence of this violence. I will investigate how an adequate cost-benefit analysis on the prevention of domestic violence and child abuse can be developed. It is a difficult point, but I also understand Mrs Rebel's point. I do not want this to depend on costs and benefits. This has to be fought. I would like to see how we can design such a cost-benefit analysis for prevention. Mrs Rebel also asked a number of questions about the screening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mrs Rebel has an interruption on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u44	The Secretary of State is talking about a preliminary investigation. I think he's right to say that a cost-benefit analysis might sound a little harsh. Let me put it this way: the benefits that we could have in promoting effective, early prevention. We actually don't have enough insight into the costs. If you weigh the prevention and the cost of it, I suspect this is a hugely good investment. At what time and how will we be informed about this? A preliminary investigation is not exactly what I want. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u45	We have already spoken three times about reporting violence in dependency relationships, which the Chamber receives every six months. I can imagine that we are simply taking this point into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u46	I can also imagine that. Nor do I know the Secretary of State other than that this will indeed be taken into account in progress reports, which will therefore become very heavy. The research is already under way, but it seems to me that this point can still be taken into account. That seems to me to be the most effective. I therefore ask the Secretary of State if he thinks that the preliminary investigation and possibly an additional research question can still be included in the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u47	Now Mrs. Rebel is going very, very hard and far. I do not want to say that at the moment, because I would first like to see what is involved in such a cost-benefit analysis. I'm gonna need the preliminary investigation for that, too. Perhaps Mrs. Rebel can be patient, so I can get some insight into the question when that might be possible. I can take that with me in the reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u48	I'm guessing this has added value. If the Secretary of State wants to make an extreme effort to see if this can be taken, very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u49	We'll look into that. Mrs. Rebel also asked about the prevalence of genital mutilation. The latest research and the latest figures are from 2012. There is no central registration in youth health care. In 2012, however, extensive research was carried out by Erasmus MC. It shows how many girls are at risk of being circumcised. This led to the estimation that there is a prevalence of 29,000 women, with an incidence of 40 to 50 girls per year at risk. A number of risk countries were selected at the time. There is currently a key person network, including the Federation of Somali Associations Netherlands. This concerns 100 people from the community who within that community make the subject of genital mutilation possible to discuss behind the front door. That, too, ensures prevention. The key person network receives funding from VWS to do this work. We are discussing what is needed in the coming period. More generally, you can of course ask yourself how research into genital mutilation in girls is carried out by youth health care. That's what Mrs. Rebel asked. There is an action protocol genital mutilation. Professionals who have to deal with a suspicion of girl circumcision must act in accordance with that protocol. Pharos developed that protocol of action together with other organisations for the AMK. It provides insight into how to act from the moment of a notification or request for advice from the AMK. You can also hire professionals. The core is that a serious risk assessment is made on the basis of the following criteria: the country of origin, the question of whether family members have been circumcised, the attitude of the family towards circumcision, the presence of environmental pressures, family visits from abroad and the degree of integration of a family. In asylum seekers' centres there is a separate protocol for the health care of asylum seekers between 0 and 19 years old. That protocol requires all children to be seen by youth health care. There is therefore an action protocol to which, especially in the case of girls, a risk assessment is used. So I think we are doing this in a good way, but we must continue to follow this problem very closely to ensure that it does not disappear off the radar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u50	I think that the answer given by the Secretary of State also shows this vagueness. That's not personal, by the way. That's exactly what we want. We should have that. He mentions the latest figures on the risk. Those are from 2012. We are now living in 2015. If there is an action protocol, we should have a look at the number of questions at the AMK. So we need those numbers. My final point, as the Secretary of State calls it, is this. If the asylum-seekers' centres are indeed acting in accordance with the protocol, I know that protocol, and I know that protocol, then there should also be numbers of them. I think that's one of the essential things that's missing. We don't have any numbers. That is why, and this is perhaps also a request to the Secretary of State, doctors and nurses should once again be brought to the table both in the asylum-seekers' centres and in the youth health care sector in order to raise awareness of the importance of reporting, and thus the specific figures. Then much more comes to the nature and extent of the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u51	As I said, there is no central registration so far. I am very willing to consult with the organisations to see what the obstacles are to make them happen. There will undoubtedly be many aspects to it, but I agree with Mrs Rebel that we need to keep an eye on how often it happens in the Netherlands and that we need to see what we can do about it. Just because we have these protocols, we could do the same. I would be happy to consult with youth health care and the AMKs to see what we can do to further collect the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you. I think that is indeed a good step. It is possible to learn from the obstetricians, who are already doing so. Maybe it's good to see if we can use their methods. Furthermore, when awareness is increased, quite recently research has been carried out in an English hospital, where a factor of ten times more cases are found. Finally, under the reporting code, since this is also about child abuse, central registration should be possible, or an inventory of local registrations. In fact, it should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u53	I'm glad Mrs. Rebel estimates it's all very easy. I suggest I find out if it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u54	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u55	Mr Dammers made another comment on the importance of the dispute settlement and on the discussion that took place with the Minister for the Interior. I also know how important it is for him to get out of there in a good way. I am also pleased that the discussions are going well. Mrs Van Ark had two points in which she raised the point that, in my opinion, in her words, awareness and a procedure may be good conditions but not sufficient conditions. She said, I mentioned it just now as well, that decentralisation is a good opportunity to address an effective approach to violence and to move forward with it. In her view, it is also necessary for women themselves, or helped to do so, to ring the bell. I wholeheartedly endorse Mrs Van Ark's comments. Decentralisation, which brings domestic violence and child abuse into one hand with the municipality, does indeed offer huge opportunities to look much wider and more comprehensively at a family and to lower thresholds for reporting child abuse and mistreatment. And with the public campaign "A safe home, that's what makes you strong" women are also encouraged to seek help and advice. I think it is right to look at decentralisation in this way, to look at the opportunities that it offers on these very themes, where prevention is so incredibly important. Mrs Van Ark also made a number of comments on the direct effect of the Treaties. I think she said there's a need for restraint in treaties. I agree with that in general. It is, of course, ultimately up to the court to determine whether a provision has direct effect or not, but the legislator must be careful whether he does not provoke unnecessary direct effect at the time he would not want it, because he wants to deal with his own legislation. Sometimes there are provisions in other treaties that have a direct effect, such as the prohibition of discrimination or the protection of personal data. However, I agree in general with Mrs Van Ark that we should not come to an automatic interconnection and that we should look very consciously when this interconnection is and when it is not. Mr Thijsen of the MEP also made the right point that we should not only think of abuse of women and domestic violence, but that we should focus on trafficking in human beings and the criminal factors that play a major role in this. It's a good thing he asked for special attention to that. It is more common in some countries than in others. I imagine that, depending on the environment where you sit, you can suffer a lot from international crime that can play a role in this. I think it's very good not just to think about female abuse and domestic violence. We also need to highlight the issue of trafficking in human beings and its criminal aspects separately. I very much endorse his comments on UNICEF's reporting and the importance of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Mrs Kooiman asked for a response to the signal from Fier Fryslân that there would be waiting lists for victims of loverboys. I would remind her that it is a responsibility of the municipalities to do this properly. Mrs. Van Ark said the same thing. At this very point I have made agreements with the center municipalities about a quality impulse for the women's shelter. Structurally, 10 million extra is available. One part of the agreement is that specific groups, in relation to the required expertise or safety, can best be taken into account above regional or national level. Victims of loverboys fall into this category. Municipalities have made a financing arrangement and buy shelters centrally in. If Fier Fryslân has the idea that waiting lists are being created or that there is not enough money I haven't gotten those signals yet, it would be a good idea for that centre to turn to the VNG to address these bottlenecks. However, I would point out that extra money has been made available and that a nationwide agreement has been made, a nationwide financing arrangement. This is precisely how it is ensured that this form of support does not fall between shore and ship. Mrs Kooiman also drew attention to the fact that children who are victims are entitled to treatment. I would like to endorse this in the sense that municipalities have a duty to provide youth assistance. It is up to the municipalities to make agreements with providers. We need to monitor how that goes with each other. Mrs Kooiman has also asked specific questions on this point. The answers will be sent to the Chamber on 19 June in the context of the progress report on long-term care. I assume that we can look again at whether there has been an adequate response to the questions. Mrs Kooiman also asked if I could indicate what the police and assistance are doing to track and provide assistance to isolated and oppressed women, such as Yasmeen Dad from Rotterdam. Maybe the colleague from V and J is still going into the investigation side of this issue, but I'm not entirely sure. At least I will talk about the aid. Yasmeen Dad came from Rotterdam as said and therefore I want to indicate what the municipality of Rotterdam is doing. A forced life in isolation is a very, very serious form of domestic violence. In addition, it is also a criminal offence. This requires a very active commitment of municipalities. It is very important that professionals have knowledge of signals and report them according to the code of domestic violence and child abuse. The municipality of Rotterdam has gained experience in dealing with "hidden women," as they are called, in a pilot of a year in Delfshaven. This can be seen as a best practice in the current situation. The municipality of Rotterdam works together with auxiliary institutions and trained professionals and key individuals to further roll this out in various cultural community groups. They can play an active role. They can use this in the neighborhood, pick up signals and refer them to the right authorities, especially to Safe Home or, in the event of an acute situation, to the police. Mr Sneek stressed the importance of education. This is not only a place for the first signals of domestic violence and child abuse, but also a place to share information about possible effective approaches. Knowledge has been gained in several countries, including the European Netherlands. Through education, we could also make that information available to the other countries of our Kingdom. I very much support this remark. For our part, I am also very willing to consider whether the information used in our schools is applicable to the other parts of the Kingdom. I'm very willing to see if we can share that information. Mrs Berndsen asked me about the phone numbers of Safe Home. That phone number's free. I don't know by heart how it got into the account. Mrs. Berndsen asked if it's anonymous enough in the account someone gets. We will look into this and take it into account in the report I mentioned earlier. It also raised the interesting question of where to coordinate this policy. I can imagine that, in this debate, which deals with an approval law, the emphasis is very much on safety and justice in terms of legislation. I have also experienced many debates in which the balance was a bit the other way round. I am therefore pleased to see that sometimes it can also go this way. Until 2011, Security and Justice had the coordination. Afterwards, VWS became a coordinating department, especially in the central role of municipalities in an integrated approach to domestic violence and child abuse. In practice, we act shoulder to shoulder. A few months ago, we sent a further letter to the Chamber explaining our division of labour. I can only say that we work very successfully and closely together in tackling domestic violence, child abuse and violence in dependency relationships to ensure that this issue remains high on the agenda not only in the political sense, but above all in implementation and in cooperation with municipalities. We need them to ensure that this issue is constantly on our agenda. The campaign "It doesn't stop" doesn't stop. Maybe that's the shortest answer I can give at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u56	That's kind of short. I have another question about the previous point. The Secretary of State mentioned hidden women. That is also a very important point in the integration agenda of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. So there are so many aspects of the issues we are discussing tonight that we need to be clear about who is in charge. That is a better question than who is coordinating. It's about directing. Of course, there's a lot in the municipalities. That is also very good, but there is also something like a national interest. And for that, it's good to know who's in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u57	It's at VWS. We also informed the Chamber of this in a letter a few months ago. We have also reported in what way we have divided the tasks and how we are shaping the direction. For Mrs Berndsen is right; other departments are also involved. It is important, for example, that dialogue be conducted in the communities, particularly from an integration point of view. The Ministry of Social Affairs also supports people from closed communities to engage in the conversation in their own circle. Safety and Justice as well as Social Affairs as the educational component as well as the component of municipal policy, prevention and support is given great attention. Mr Bikker quite rightly pointed out that there is still much to be done in...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u58	Still a follow-up question!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u59	Yes, because the answer to the campaign was very short! Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us a little bit more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u60	We see that the campaign has made a very important contribution, not only to raising awareness on the subject, but also to the willingness to raise issues, to report on matters, to take action itself and to look into where action should be taken. We are getting positive signals about this. These are reasons for us to at least say otherwise, let me say, for the time being, not to stop the campaign. We shall therefore continue to do so in the event of a success which has already been demonstrated. Mr Bikker pointed out that much remains to be done in Aruba. He also said that there were many discussions about what the other countries in the Kingdom could do together to keep this issue high on the agenda. I have already said that I very much appreciate those remarks and give them to the Minister responsible to discuss them with his colleagues in the Aruban Government. Finally, I come to Mrs Ruiz-Maduro, who quite rightly highlighted the importance of good registration. This has already been discussed in this debate. You can develop policies based on international research into the best methods, but you also need to know how often it occurs and what the nature of domestic violence and child abuse is in the context of your own country, region or city. I think it is very important to continue to seek this cooperation so that the exchange of expertise can and will continue to take place. In the Netherlands, we now have a rather comprehensive approach to violence in dependency relationships, in which all the public authorities involved together take a multitude of actions to ensure that prevention, care, aftercare and punishment are on the agenda and that action is taken. Maybe it's a good idea, I can imagine that very well, to have a more detailed discussion on whether parts of the approach to violence in dependency relationships can be applicable in other parts of the Kingdom. I'm very willing to share that information. It might also be good to recall that the World Conference on Women's Reception will take place in The Hague in November of this year. I would ask you to invite the Caribbean part of the Kingdom to take part in this conference. As far as I'm concerned, welcome!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the special delegates of the States of Aruba and the members of the House of Representatives for their contribution to the first term. This is an important issue and an important treaty. Violence against women and domestic violence is still widespread and at least there is too much. Worldwide, this is certainly still a huge problem that we cannot look away from. But also in the Netherlands, these are often serious offences. We must all be involved in reducing it. The Secretary of State for VWS is a coordinating executive; to answer that question immediately. I have not felt any challenge in the last few weeks to take that coordination out of his hands. I'm fine. Nor do I have the idea that our department would be less involved in dealing with the problem. Also within the police and the prosecution, the problem is well on the map. It is a high-impact crime that is explicitly mentioned in the 2015 - 2018 Security Agenda that has been established for police, OM and regional mayors. Criminal intervention supports other interventions such as the ban on housing. In cases like this, the problem often needs to be solved first, and then the unsub needs to be dealt with. That must go hand in hand, and that is why we are in favour of taking this together. The current Istanbul Convention makes a strong contribution to the fight against domestic violence and violence against women worldwide. It also has some legal consequences for the Netherlands. There are not many, because there were many approaches, measures and laws in the Netherlands. They are well in line with the obligations of the Convention. In the implementing law that we are also discussing today, we have taken three additional criminal measures to fully implement the obligations of the Convention. All this further strengthens the position of victims of domestic violence. In addition, the possibility of detecting and prosecuting offenders is extended. I now turn to the questions that have been asked. Mrs Rebel mentioned the introduction of a compensation fund for violent crimes in the Caribbean Netherlands. An initial reconnaissance has now been carried out. The Minister of Security and Justice will inform the Chamber by letter, as promised, before the summer. Mrs Rebel also mentioned the application of the ban on housing to the Caribbean Netherlands. In the context of the basic approach, which my colleague from VWS also mentioned, it will be considered whether a house ban can be introduced and, if so, how. There are, of course, other structures in the Caribbean Netherlands. In the end, if you want to include it in the implementing legislation, very practical matters are somewhat different. In the Netherlands, the ban on housing is also a restraining order. That's easier to do when the physical distances in a country are slightly larger. On an island, it's a little harder to shape because of its limited size. This makes enforcement more difficult, so that needs to be looked at carefully before it can be fully implemented. Mrs Rebel also had a question about the attention paid by the Justice Department to women with a dependent residence permit. How do you deal with this vulnerable group? Is the police equipped for this and are the declarations recorded? It is quite clear that this is a vulnerable group. It seems to me a diabolical dilemma to stand up for your physical safety while at the same time fearing that your residence status will be at stake. Dutch policy is that victims with a dependent right of residence can claim continued residence if it is indeed likely that there is violence within the relationship. Then a report to the police is enough. It doesn't even have to be a report. It's about the combination of a report and a medical statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u62	In theory, it is. However, the foundation Zij Is Here has several cases of women with initial residence status who are heard by the police, I quote that they are not blue enough and that therefore no report is made. In the direction of a possible residence status, they do not go any further. What the Secretary of State says is theory. I wonder how, in practice, we can ensure that these vulnerable people know what their rights are and that the police know how to deal with reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u63	It's part of initial training with the police. It's a solid element in that. I do not rule out the possibility that something may go wrong or that there is a difference in the perception of a particular case, but no declaration is required. A medical background report is, of course, required in order to obtain an independent right of residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u64	One of the problems of this group is that one doesn't go to a doctor so easily, for example because one doesn't have one's own insurance or comes out difficult at all. Can the Secretary of State still raise this issue again and possibly have a conversation with Zij Is Here? Again, this group had several cases showing that the police often have a bottleneck. Can the Secretary of State then inform us about this so that we can see if we can streamline it better? I think the practice is still uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u65	I cannot, of course, ignore signals from practice, so we will look into them and, if necessary, inform the Chamber further. The police have a crucial role to play. She's the first point of contact. I promise I'll dive closer into it. I can explain how policy works, but I take to heart the signal that practice deviates too much from it in too many cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u66	Maybe I can help the Secretary of State a little bit to make it more explicit. It's in the initial training course, it's in the curriculum of police officers, but when people get to the station, they end up with desk service staff. And I think that's where the bottleneck is. Bartenders should immediately refer these kinds of people to sex detectives, who are well trained to handle such reports properly. These people need to get beyond the window. That's where the big problem lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u67	It is indeed the intention that advice should be sought immediately from the National Expertise Centre Eer Related Violence. It's got to go further than the front desk. I will also take this signal to heart. I need to know my formal place, so I'll take this up with the minister. Mrs Rebel has also asked for a genital mutilation complaint and prosecution. We were just discussing stage one, the report. Then the declaration comes, so that filters one step further into the process. Seven cases were dealt with by the D.A. in 2014. It has not been possible to obtain the burden of proof in such a way that a conviction has been passed. Mrs. Van Ark asked about digital security, catfishing and dating fraud. It's a topical subject. The term is mainly known for a light program, in which people chat for a long time and build relationships with someone who doesn't exist. However, there are also other forms, which clearly come within the scope of coercion, psychic violence and abuse of positions. Cons are trying to get people who are looking for a partner off their money in a sophisticated way, not least by building a relationship. Physical contact is not necessary. It can cause a lot of damage, certainly emotionally, but often also financially. Everyone probably knows the easy-to-identify spam call from someone from another country who says: I still have a lot of money, but I just need your bank account and then I get that inheritance. We often call that "Nigerian Prince Scandals." These are similar princes in white; in reality they are not at all. In our view, this is fully covered by the comprehensive comprehensive approach to horizontal fraud. Prevention is part of this approach and so we try to create barriers through awareness among those who do not want to do so, but facilitate it. I am thinking of channels in the social media whose account is known, because they must also play a role in prevention. The Fraud Help Desk also plays an important role. Finally, in the May letter, we worked out what else is involved. To give an image: only at the Fraudhelpdesk last year 250 reports of scams or attempted scams were received via specific dating sites. Of those 250 people, 134 have been scammed for a total of 2.5 million. So it's not child's play! 77 women and 57 men have been deceived and seduced in a sophisticated way, which ultimately has led them to lose not only their hearts but also their money. This is certainly a worrying problem. The Fraud Help Desk is available and equipped to address this problem. Mrs Kooiman spoke about the percentage of domestic violence reports. Is there a lack of expertise? It's a difficult step to report. That's the first obstacle. Above all, we can exert a great deal of influence on the process afterwards. I can inform Mrs Kooiman that the police are working in various ways to improve that process and to ensure an even more careful and victim-oriented reporting process, so that the threshold is at least as low as possible. That is what we can do on the organisational side to make the mental threshold as low as possible, but of course it always remains an obstacle. Following on from this and following the distress call of the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, Mrs Kooiman asked about the training of professionals. Is the expertise in order? A good approach to violence in the domestic sphere stands or falls with expert professionals who can recognise such problems. I fully agree with Mrs Kooiman. It's not quite the same, but I recently attended a training for medical specialists in recognizing abused children. I saw with my own eyes that this requires real expertise, expertise that you also have to keep up with. It really requires a special eye to recognise this violence at an early stage. That is why we pay a great deal of attention to this issue, and in particular to cooperation between professionals and the police detective. As I said before, the probation training has been incorporated into its modules. The District Attorneys, the judges and their supporters are following training at the SSR. It is not currently a specific part of the training for lawyers, but it is possible to take such training within the wider range of training. The trainings of the SSR are also open to the legal profession. Mrs Kooiman has not missed a moment to warn that she is following the possible development of the waiting lists. She did that three hours ago, but I'm glad she reminds me of that now. However, my answer is the same and I can refer to what I said three hours ago. That also prevents me from contradicting myself in one day. Mrs Berndsen asked about economic violence. Why is this not being followed up? The treaty doesn't require it, but it defines it. If the treaty had committed itself to it, we would of course have taken it over. The Advisory Section has also pointed out that economic violence is also included and refers to the Code of Criminal Law Article 316, first paragraph. It stipulates that property offences are excluded from prosecution if committed by perpetrator or accomplice in marriage to the victim. That is the article that Mrs Berndsen would like to see changed. We have also been asked how the Treaty and its definitions relate to this. In our view, a definition of terms is something other than that which results from the fact that it must be punishable. That doesn't come naturally from that. That is why we did not follow up on the opinion. Earlier, in February, when Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned this, it was already discussed in detail. Marriage rights are already extremely complex in civil matters. Its definition is linked to the personal relationships of those involved. In criminal law, it is already quite difficult to prove this. There's been contact with the D.A.'s office about this. We have noted, however, that abolishing the grounds for exclusion does not contribute to a practice as we see it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u68	This is quite a story to say that the cabinet doesn't want to settle it. However, this fits very well into this time, I would like to say. If you look at the initiative proposal Modernisation of matrimonial property law of D66, VVD and PvdA, you will find that it fits in extremely well. This is the time to settle it, and I would like to add it to the cabinet, particularly because the Council of State is also making this point in connection with the ratification of these treaties. So my question is really very brief: does the government want to take care of it or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u69	I tried for a long time because the short answers didn't work until recently. Right now, under the current matrimonial property law, we're not planning to settle this. The will is missing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u70	The will is lacking: then, of course, it stops altogether. But within the current matrimonial property right, I honestly don't understand why it couldn't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u71	It is well known that there has been a difference of opinion on this matter for a long time. We have also had an exchange of views on this in previous debates. In our view, the persistence of this possible criminalisation is currently so complex that we do not think it would contribute to a clear legal system to change it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u72	Finally, Mrs Berndsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u73	Then I'd like to give you the following. We are currently looking at the adaptation of the Criminal Code: superfluous articles from it and modernisation. I see the Secretary of State laughs; I do hope that a lot of it goes out, then it gets a little more convenient. This would be such an excellent opportunity to bring along such a modernisation point. Perhaps the Secretary of State says he will discuss this with the Minister; I will try again. If you don't, I'm gonna come up with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u74	If the Chamber orders this, we'll do it anyway. We would like to take another look at it, but I certainly do not dare to promise that the answer will be different. But I certainly trust that Mrs Berndsen will come back to it again. Mrs Berndsen also asked about cultural justifications. The Dutch Bar Association has expressed the fear that certain social actions may be punishable by the Convention. I don't share that fear. The interpretation of the articles concerned, in particular Articles 12 and 42 of the Convention, which eliminate those cultural justifications, should take into account the scope of the Convention. The NOvA mentioned examples of boys' circumcision and women's boxing. I can imagine how one can say creatively: there are women boxing, there are physical damage, and that is not culturally justified. However, it does not have to be, because it does not fit within the framework of domestic violence or violence against women as envisaged in the Treaty. The Dutch criminal law itself has no justification in the sphere of cultural motives or the honour that should now be removed on the basis of this treaty. In addition to what Mr van VWS has already said about gender policy, I would say that, of course, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and Reclassification Netherlands are also involved in the process and the gender-sensitive approach he has described, as we believe it to be, will tend within the organisation. Mr Van Helvert referred to the use of criminal law. He had a very nice reasoning: it will prove it, otherwise the cabinet would not bring it forward or the cabinet would not propose to criminalise the preparatory actions. I'm gonna have to nuance this a little bit. The flat reason that we are now proposing to criminalize it is because the treaty says it has to. There's also a reason we chose not to do it before the treaty came into force. That wasn't because we don't think it's miserable when people do preparatory acts for marriage coercion, but because the evidence is difficult for this. It's not gonna be the easiest crime to prove in our criminal justice system. You're very dependent on the testimonies and the context. Of course, you can distill things out of expressions you can find, apart from the person, but it won't be easy in practice. The signaling effect will be strong and the practical effect will be a challenge. Of course, there are always cases where you want to make a case of marriage coercion that just doesn't work out, but which can be overcome with this. That's good. However, given the criminalisation of one year, that is not what you are after in the first instance. We do not think that we can solve the whole problem, but we do not think that this will be a problem in criminal law. It is also the case that we are increasingly seeing newer and unpredictable forms, we have already talked about catfishing, where it may become a little easier, because traces are being left and the steps to it can be proved. It could then provide a solution. Mr Van Helvert asked how I am going to embrace it. Mrs Berndsen asked me how I could make a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr Van Helvert, I think it would be useful for the Secretary of State to finish his response first. Then you can debate his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u76	In order to reduce the difference between the two questions, I think that in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment the word'suspects' should be read as'suspects'. The other question is why we didn't choose it. We could have thought we'd do it ourselves. The treaty doesn't require it. This is the first reason why we didn't add it to it. In addition, the starting point of the system of criminal proceedings is that we only apply pre-trial detention in the case of suspected offences involving a penalty of four years or more. Within the system of criminal proceedings this would not fit, because this is a one-year fact, so to speak. The D.A. has given a positive opinion on the enforcement law and has not shown that it needs to allow for that pre-trial detention. This does not mean that criminal proceedings will fall if the amendment is adopted. It can support policy, it can send a signal and it can be useful in practice. It was rather mockingly asked whether half the family should be placed in remand. It may be a bit much, but it may help to find the truth and investigate the issue if the persons to whom a suspicion has been expressed are equally out of the picture. In that sense, I shall pass the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Materially, I can see why it was inserted. In formal terms, it is a bit more difficult to relate to the system of criminal proceedings and the general rules of procedure that we have in it. It would be an exception. It is up to the Chamber whether it wishes to allow it in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thanks for the response. First of all, I would like to respond to Mrs Berndsen's interruption and the reaction of the cabinet to it. Mrs Berndsen was right. The word "suspecting" in the explanatory statement must be "spoken" so that it says: detention can be imposed if there is preparation for marriage coercion. In that sense, I can say that right away. It's nice that a non-lawyer gave it to me that way, isn't it? I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his response to the amendment. I understand that he would not normally want to include this in the law, but that it would not be a major flaw if we were to accept the amendment in order to meet the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u78	I have already explained why, as a cabinet, we have not chosen to propose this, but not every choice other than the choices made by the cabinet will be a disaster, and certainly not this one. Finally, Mrs Rebel made an appeal in response to Emma Watson's speech, which is indeed impressive. I looked into it to make sure that I wouldn't preach any falsehood and on October 13, 2014, I called all men on my Facebook page mentioning the speech and the HeForShe campaign to sign the petition. I did the same thing myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you. Mr Van Helvert, for the sake of completeness, it would be wise for you to pass on the textual change you have already mentioned in an amended amendment. Is there a need for a second term? I see "yes" getting nodded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the two Secretary of State, and I assume the Minister responsible, for their response to my appeal. It is fantastic to hear that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice spread the campaign to his friends last year. The Secretary of State of VWS will also speak on behalf of all male colleagues in the cabinet when he says that he is picking up this glove and that he wants to fight for a world without violence against women and domestic violence. I have heard a number of commitments that I am very pleased with, including the consultation with the jgz and the field on female genital mutilation. As far as my party is concerned, the vagueness on this subject can be seen. Knowing the Secretary of State of VWS, I assume he can inform us on the next progress report. The Secretary of State has also promised to look into the possibilities of including research into the social costs of violence in dependent relationships and violence against women in the research already announced. That makes me optimistic. I really assume that the preliminary study will show that this will have absolute added value. This little hiccup will undoubtedly lead to this being taken away. I'd like to give the Secretary of State the following suggestion. We have already mentioned three possibilities for accelerating the approach to domestic violence in the Caribbean Netherlands. I would like to give him my suggestion about the National Representative as a driver when he talks to the task force next week. Following on from what Mr Sneek said about trafficking in human beings, perhaps we could ask the national rapporteur to share her expertise with the Caribbean Netherlands. She has a huge track record and we in the Chamber are also grateful to use her expertise. So we could do that; perhaps the Secretary of State can answer that. Of course, I am very pleased with the consultation and the UNG's desire to respect the funding system. We will await the letters of the Secretary of State on the compensation fund and the implementation of the temporary house ban, with, of course, understanding the limitations of a small area. Fourteen cases of female genital mutilation in which no prosecution has taken place under any circumstances, I find worrying. This Secretary of State may be able to join the discussions that his colleague from VWS will have on this matter. I think there is a profit to be made in this area. I welcome this Secretary of State's commitment to consult on good help for women in vulnerable situations with dependent residence status. I think this is a nice action. I expect this Secretary of State to inform us as a Chamber in the next progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u81	I see that Mr Dammers of the AVP also needs a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u82	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the possibility that we, as special delegates, can make our contribution to the state law. We also thank Secretary of State of Rhine for wanting to share his expertise in the Kingdom. The Netherlands has been working on this for four years. In the explanatory statement you can see very comprehensive, article for article, which the Netherlands is already working on, whether with regulations or with policies. Maybe there's a bigger matrix, a crossreference, which can do better. The Caribbean countries can certainly use this as a roadmap to get legislation and policies in our area as quickly as possible, so that we can meet the requirements of this state law. A Kingdom Conference will be held in two weeks' time, and perhaps we can do something there. Colleagues will table motions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u83	I call Mrs Van Ark of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we have talked today about the broad-based ambition to eradicate domestic violence against women and girls and domestic violence. Clear and strict laws mark the norm. That standard is that the victim's side is taken. We also need a resilient society, a society with an outstretched hand to victims who cannot take such an important first step towards aid themselves. That outstretched hand comes from your surroundings, hopefully. Hopefully you can see that, too. That outstretched hand must also be the norm for the authorities. I would specifically like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers on dating fraud, which is indeed a victim and where there is a great deal of suffering, including in the families and surroundings of these women who are often divorced or newly widowed. In fact, here are the three levels that I have tried to indicate in my speech. Then it's all about what you can do yourself. For example, you have to make sure you're not crazy enough to transfer money to someone abroad you've never seen before. It may also be very nice to visit a dating site, but you also need to make sure of the dangers. The environment has a responsibility, for example, to monitor whether money is not suddenly transferred through banks known to be engaged in such networks. And if it's happened to you and you're past the shame... that plays a role very often... you have to see if you can track these figures and maybe find some of them. This discussion is currently being conducted mainly in magazines that are widely read by women. That's good. It is also good that many of these subjects come back there, because it is important not only to talk about them in politics, but also in society. As far as I am concerned, it should be dealt with in as many television programmes as possible and as many magazines as possible, because it occurs in all sections of the population, in all ages and throughout all professions. We need to talk a lot about it here in politics too, because in the end we all want the same thing, and that is the elimination of violence against women and girls and domestic violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u85	Then I give the floor to Mr Thijsen of the MEP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u86	Madam President. As I mentioned earlier, this subject has our full attention. Aruba is in the process of implementing an implementation plan under the implementing legislation of this Convention. We are not ready yet, but we believe that cooperation within the Kingdom is very important in order to achieve our common objectives. Within the framework of one Kingdom, living together, working together, taking decisions together, we are tabling a motion which reads as follows. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas: that the relevant Convention is essential for the countries of the Kingdom; that the fight against domestic violence is also a spearhead for Aruban policy; the possible need for implementing legislation in Aruba and an implementation plan; that Article 62 of the Convention requires contracting parties to cooperate as widely as possible; cooperation within the Kingdom is desirable; that the Statute of the Kingdom of the Netherlands also contains a principle of concordance; that a Kingdom Conference will be held on 16 June a.s.; calls on the Kingdom Government, within the framework of the Kingdom Conference, to establish a protocol of cooperation in the field of the Convention, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was proposed by the special delegates Thijsen, Bikker, Dammers, Sneek and Ruiz-Maduro. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 8 (34038 (R2039)).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mr. Chairman. As you can see, there have been a lot of changes today and we have all asked questions to directors who may not be here, but who also have to do with this issue. I myself asked questions to the Minister for Security and Justice, but the Secretary of State answered them well. I also asked questions to the Minister for Social Affairs, who is involved in matters such as marriage control. These are all responsible ministers. It is good, as Mrs Berndsen also said, to know who is taking action and who is the ultimate responsible person. I think that is a fair point. My concern at the moment is whether there are sufficient safe shelters in situations of serious domestic violence. We have been having a debate on this with the Secretary of State of the United States of America for a long time. Article 23 of this Convention obliges this Secretary of State to organise sufficiently safe places. I'd like to help the Secretary of State with a number of motions. I'm just gonna read them to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there will be a new key for tackling violence in dependency relationships;]] [[considers that it would be undesirable for the new distribution key to result in a large shift in reception places;]] [[believes that caregivers should always be able to access a shelter if they cannot be accommodated in their own environment due to imminent danger;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the continued existence of a national social protection system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34038(R2039)-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u88	The Secretary of State may say that municipalities are responsible, but he is system responsible. As Article 23 of the Treaty obliges him to do so, I assume he can embrace this motion. Then I'll file my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the increase in the number of loverboy victims has resulted in a shortage of specialised care and treatment facilities for these victims;]] [[Whereas waiting lists may lead to repeated victimisation;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an action plan to remove the waiting lists for the specialised reception and treatment sites of victims of domestic violence, loverboys and trafficking in human beings as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34038(R2039)-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u89	Finally, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas municipalities have agreed that no more ggz treatment should take place than in previous years, while three-quarters of children who were victims of abuse have not been treated in previous years;]] [[considers that children who are victims of abuse should be treated as soon as possible in order to avoid post-traumatic disorders;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that children who are victims of abuse, but have not yet developed a disorder, are entitled to treatment in mental health care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34038(R2039)-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u90	Those were my three motions. I refer to Mrs Berndsen's proposal of D66 on property offences in marriages. I think it is a bit of an easy answer from the Secretary of State. Because I find it very strange that stealing is punishable if you live together, but not when you're married. I think that's really weird. That is exactly what Mrs Berndsen is calling for: let us remove that inequality and also criminalise the stealing of each other in marriages. I think it is a very nice suggestion, and that is why I want a better explanation from the Secretary of State. Finally, of course, I would like to thank the special delegates very much for their arrival and their input. I have listened with interest and I hope that we do not have to wait five years before we have another special moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u91	I can tell you there's still something in the pipeline. I call Mr Sneek of the AVP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u92	Madam President, on behalf of the special delegates from Aruba, I would like to table the next motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas: that the relevant Convention is essential for the countries of the Kingdom; that the fight against violence against women and domestic violence is also a spearhead for Aruban policy; the possible need for implementing legislation in Aruba and an implementation plan; that Article 15 of the Convention requires contracting parties to provide training for relevant professionals dealing with victims or perpetrators of violence against women and domestic violence; which, pursuant to the second paragraph of that Article, 15 Contracting Parties shall exercise co-ordinated cooperation in the context of the training; that Article 62 of the Convention requires contracting parties to cooperate as widely as possible; that cooperation is also desirable within kingdoms in the field reported; invites the Kingdom Government, within the framework of that cooperation, to share with the other countries in the Kingdom the training material developed by the Minister of VWS on the basis of Article 15 of the Convention, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was proposed by the special delegates Sneek and Bikker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 12 (34038 (R2039)).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u93	Madam President, I would like to thank you once again for this opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both Secretary of State for answering the questions. It is indeed a complex dossier with a large number of directors who manage a part of this dossier. That is why a throbbing infrastructure is of course extremely important. The U.S. Secretary of State said he's in charge, so we'll be happy to hold him to that. Then I am very sorry that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice does not want to do anything about this economic violence. I really think it's a missed opportunity. At this very moment there would be an opportunity under this treaty to take it up. Then there is nothing left for me but to make a motion. I had a more commissioned motion in mind. I have modified the motion slightly and hope that the Secretary of State will agree that he can submit it to the Chamber with a positive opinion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Control of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence has been signed by the Netherlands and needs to be implemented;]] [[noting that the aim of the Convention is to give a strong impetus to preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence and to regulate not only protection against physical violence but also economic violence;]] [[Whereas property offences committed within the marriage or registered partnership are currently legally excluded from prosecution;]] [[Whereas criminalisation and prosecution of property offences committed within marriage or registered partnership can make an important contribution to the economic independence of women in particular;]] [[calls on the Government, when modernising the Code of Criminal Law, taking into account the modernisation of matrimonial property law, to examine the possibility of criminalising property offences committed within the marriage or registered partnership and to allow legal prosecution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34038 (R2093)-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u95	We also talked about the direction. I ask the Secretary of State of VWS to take as much account as possible of the complex infrastructure in the reports. I think it is important that members of the V&J Committee feel responsible for this complex issue, particularly in relation to trafficking in human beings. This is often discussed in committee. It's all touching like crazy. It should not therefore be the case that only VWS is talking about this, but it should also be explicitly addressed to the V&J Committee. I can see why we're responsible for that ourselves. This could perhaps be taken into account in the report. Mrs Ruiz-Maduro asked for support on parts from the Netherlands on the basis of questions from Mr Rebel. I think that was a very good question, because we have expertise. I told you, our police force has had the domestic violence program since the beginning of 2000. There is a lot of expertise in this and there is a lot of documentation about it. It may also be possible for them to be made available to the Caribbean Netherlands. I could imagine that the rapporteur, Human Trafficking and Sexual Violence against Children, is also taking care of the Caribbean Netherlands. We could, of course, ask the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u96	For the sake of certainty and for the sake of the Acts, I would like to point out that this is not just about the Caribbean Netherlands, but also about the countries of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u97	Madam President. I shall confine myself to tabling a motion in the second round. The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas: that the undersigned attend the examination of the present draft national law as special delegates pursuant to Article 17 of the Statute; that, in view of the geographical location of the countries, the States of the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom are not often able to issue special delegates; that, therefore, more than five years have elapsed since the last special delegates were appointed to deal with a draft national law referred to in Article 17, second paragraph, of the Staff Regulations; that the special delegate's contribution to the examination of such a draft national law has produced many concrete joint results, including, but not limited to, the creation of a legal basis for tax cassation under Article 15a of the Rijkswet cassationrechts and the further elaboration and interpretation of a dispute settlement under Article 12a of the Staff Regulations; that, in view of the above, it is desirable to make an annual effort to ensure that the plenary treatment of national laws can be linked as far as possible to either the Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation or clustered in another specific coherent period; decides to make every effort to ensure that the plenary treatment of national laws will be linked as much as possible to either the Interparliamentary Kingdom consultation or clustered over a different specific period of time; invites the Kingdom Government, where appropriate, to cooperate with the notified objective, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was proposed by the special delegates Bikker, Dammers, Sneek, Ruiz-Maduro and Thijsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 14 (34038 (R2039)).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u98	Madam President, thank you for your attention and for the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u99	I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert of the CDA. I would remind Members that an amended amendment has now been tabled by Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u100	Madam President. I would like to thank both Secretary of State for their reply. I very much appreciate that the Secretary of State for Security and Justice has responded to my invitation to consider how the amendment could be embraced. Thank you for that. I appreciate that very much. I would like to share my thoughts on the answers with the Chamber. I was stuck with that tip of the system. The Secretary of State said that the system actually says that we would not do so, but on the other hand it does not raise any major objections. The Secretary of State himself put forward the argument that it could help with the truth finding and that it could also have an important signal effect. Well, it's hard to maintain. That was clear in his answer. I can imagine that, too. Knowing that this amendment does no harm to anyone and nothing, and bearing in mind the young victims who threaten to be married out, I say: if we could help one victim with this amendment in the future, it is worth submitting it. I also welcome the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State himself as to how it could work positively. That encourages me to submit the amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mr. Chairman. It is important to be aware of the fact that violence against women and domestic violence are not normal for the concrete implementation of this law. But above all, it must be remembered that violence against women also includes mocking, belittleing, threatening to hurt someone, forbid someone from going out, dancing, talking at parties, etcetera, etc. Maybe it sounds weird, but many on Aruba, including among the young, are not aware that these are forms of violence. The fact that we have had the opportunity to have a debate on this subject in the House of Representatives today also helps to raise awareness and make this topic discussable on Aruba. I would like to thank you, President and all those present, for this special occasion and express the hope that we can discuss issues that concern us all several times in the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u102	Mr. Chairman. I will answer a few specific points first. I shall then make a statement on the motions that have been tabled. Mrs Rebel asked me to check whether the National Representative and the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children could play a role in the transfer of knowledge. I think Mrs Berndsen mentioned that point. I am very willing to discuss this with them. I will therefore examine with the National Representative whether there is a willingness to do so. I will also talk to the national rapporteur to see if she is prepared to share the expertise. I trust she will be prepared to do so. Mrs Berndsen made another comment about reporting Violence in dependency relationships. We always do that report together with all departments. That's why it's often such a sturdy piece. This also applies to the reporting of trafficking in human beings. The consultation on the violence in dependency relations is usually held by your Chamber in such a way that both directors can be present. In dealing with trafficking in human beings, this is something else, but I trust that you will be able to agree on a good arrangement for the documents. For our part, we will ensure that it is an integrated report from all departments. Then I'll come to the motions. I'll take care of some. In the motion in part No. 8 The Kingdom Government is invited to establish a protocol of cooperation in the field of the Convention. I have already indicated in the debate that we are in favour of closer cooperation. However, I would like to make the point that the Kingdom Conference is already on 16 June. It is very brave to assume that there will already be a cooperation protocol. Next week, delegations will be sitting together to see what the next steps might be. Then an agenda could also be created for the preparation of the cooperation protocol. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. I also have to make the point that, in consultation with the governments, we will look at the best way of preparing and planning data. In the motion in part No. 9 by Mrs Kooiman, the government is asked to ensure that a national social welfare system remains in place. That is what we discussed in the debate. I talked to the municipalities about that. They have promised me that the national shelter, the national protection system, will continue to exist. That's their responsibility, too. It's my responsibility to see to that. The Chamber can hold me to that, too. That is why I would like to declare the motion superfluous and dissuade it. However, I would like to make the point that I too believe that there should be a national system of social protection. However, I have that promise from the aldermen. Mrs Kooiman can count on me to see that this happens. In the motion in part No. 10 The government is invited to draw up an action plan to eliminate the waiting lists for specialised reception and treatment sites of victims. I would also advise against this motion. Reception institutions must consult their client. In this case, this is the Association of Dutch Municipalities. When there are waiting lists, the VNG must come to another purchase. But when there are unnecessary waiting lists, here too, I will see to it from my system responsibility that this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u103	This is too easy for me. The Secretary of State is system responsible. Then I think he should stick to that, too. Article 23 of the Treaty we are discussing today states that the Secretary of State is keen to ensure that there are sufficient reception places. I read on Fier Fryslân's website that there are seven weeks waiting and in Flevoland there are no more crisis shelters. Can the Secretary of State take action now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u104	For pure relations: the municipalities have the task of providing suitable facilities, including for young people. That's their legal job. This means that they have to buy enough care. That too is legally guaranteed. If there is any question of the creation of waiting lists with all the wrong consequences, it is primarily up to those responsible to be called upon to do so. I will do that for my part, but that responsibility lies with the municipalities. For this reason, I continue to dissuade the motion, with the remark that I will use my responsibility to appeal to the municipalities to ensure that there will be no unnecessary waiting lists here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u105	You stand for tackling domestic violence or not. You stand for enough shelters or not. You're system responsible or not. We passed a law at the time stating that this State Secretary system is responsible. We are discussing today a treaty calling for adequate reception places to be guaranteed. Well, then I don't understand why this Secretary of State is still deceiving this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u106	In my speech, I indicated that the Treaty applies not only to the government, but also to the public authorities as a whole, including the municipalities. This means that municipalities must also assume their responsibilities in this area. Those appointments were made, too. They're buying care too. It is my responsibility to ensure that they carry out their legal duties properly. This includes: sufficient procurement of care for this kind of specific places. That is the place where the debate should be held in the first place. So Mrs Kooiman can appeal to my role to see that it is done, but the responsibility to realize it really lies with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u108	I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u109	I come to Mrs Kooiman's motion on item No. 11. I would like to make a proposal to the applicant. I would ask her to hold this motion. In previous debates, the question has been raised a number of times as to what treatment is and what is not treatment and how we can provide adequate support to children who are victims of abuse if necessary. As I said, we are making a separate progress report on long-term care. I will specifically take this point into account. Mrs Kooiman has also asked a number of questions about this. I would therefore ask her to hold the motion until the report arrives. Then we can go into that in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u110	I have two questions. I'd be happy to hold the motion. That's what I want to do...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u111	At the request of Mrs Kooiman, I propose her motion (34038(R2039), No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u112	... but I've been thinking for a while and something has been whispered to me as well. Now, if I had my motion to part no. 10 adapt to: does the government ask to see to it that the waiting lists are removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u113	Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u114	Then, of course, I'll amend my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u115	Then we move on to the motion in part no. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u116	In that motion, of the special delegates Sneek and Bikker, the Kingdom Government is asked to share the training material of the Ministry of VWS with other countries in the Kingdom. It is clear that it is extremely important to share knowledge and expertise with each other. I consider this motion to be a policy support and I would like to leave it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 13 will be done by my colleague from V and J. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 14, of highly delegated Bikker c.s. It calls on Parliaments to make every effort, when it comes to dealing with national laws, to link the plenary session as much as possible to the Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation. It's actually an appeal to the Chamber to plan it that way. I can imagine that it is up to this Chamber to decide. We are also being asked to cooperate, as the Kingdom Government, where necessary, with the declared objective. If this Chamber considers that this should be streamlined as far as possible, the Kingdom Government will be happy to cooperate with it in consultation. However, it is initially an appeal to this Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u117	And the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u118	Then it's up to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u119	Mr. Chairman. I would like to comment on a number of questions and motions and on an amendment. Mrs Rebel asked whether we could share the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, or at least point out to the rapporteur that there is good work to be done in other parts of the Kingdom. It is going to be a bit of an indirect story, but I will ask the Minister to consult with the rapporteur on whether this can be done. The answer to the request for the progress report to reflect the low rate of persecution in female genital mutilation is yes. That's what we're gonna do. Then go into Mrs Berndsen's motion and Mrs Kooiman's comment. Mrs Kooiman found the reasons why I was not really charmed by the request to investigate whether property offences within matrimonial property law could be punishable, as Mrs Berndsen suggested, not a good explanation. Now, seriously. I have already said that this is related to enforcement at the moment. It also depends on the current arrangement of matrimonial property law. That is inspired by the principle of the community, which makes stealing from the community something different from each other. That's an exception to the rest. Now I can see that there are many developments. Mrs Berndsen mentioned an initiative which she herself is involved in. Do you still have to settle this in the old system, where this is hard to fit? Or should you consider whether it fits better with the change and modernisation of the matrimonial property law determined by the Chamber? I can imagine that we are also going through a development in this area. I think it is a logical order to first look at what the civilian side will look like and then look at how criminal law could fit in with it. If I am very faint, I say now only 'judge Chamber' on Mrs Berndsen's motion on item No. 13. The faintness is in him that it may take a very long time for me to take the motion very literally. We are not really in the process of modernising the Code of Criminal Law, but, above all, modernising the Code of Criminal Procedure. So in two years' time, I'll be asked what I'm doing with it and I'll say, "I'll come back to this when I modernise criminal law." That would be very lame. I can imagine that we will involve it in the modernisation of civil matrimonial property law. If we crystallize what this will look like, we can see if there are more possibilities to join it from a criminal point of view. On the understanding that it does not really fit in with the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but rather with the modernisation of civil matrimonial property law, I leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u120	I will amend my motion accordingly. It was my wish that the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Law should be dealt with at the same time. That's why I kind of lost it. However, I will amend my motion accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u121	We don't take advantage of that. I think we heard each other right. In the new matrimonial property law, we will also look at the criminal law side that fits in with it. Mr Van Helvert himself has already said a great deal about the amendment. We don't care. It's a bit of a choice between the signaling effect and the legal, formal, procedural side. It is up to the Chamber to decide. If the House accepts this amendment, I will do my best to convince the Senate that the legal procedure is sufficiently guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-9.u122	The vote on the Treaty and on the motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank all those present for their participation in the debate, in particular the Minister responsible for Aruba and the special delegates who have come here from Aruba. I hope I may welcome them more often in the treatment of national laws.
