ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u1	I would again like to welcome those present in the Chamber. The same goes for the Foreign Minister. The debate has been requested by Mr Bontes. Eight speakers have spoken for it. Seven speakers have five minutes, Mr Bontes has a little less. I propose that we do two-way interruptions: a question and possibly a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. Vladimir Putin is a dangerous man. His policy of aggression is a threat to European security. The evil empire is back. Russia acquires dozens of new nuclear missiles, annexes Crimea and threatens the Baltic States, Scandinavia and Poland. Despite the Minsk agreement, it continues to support the rebels in eastern Ukraine with tanks and soldiers. Several European parliamentarians were banned from entering. Me, too. I see that, frankly, as a compliment. It shows that criticism from abroad comes hard in the Kremlin. I would like to thank the Minister for expressing his indignation at this in Moscow, but why are we not taking a firmer stand against it? Why do we not call our ambassador back and sanctions will not be tightened further? Putin must be held accountable. Russia must be isolated internationally. The Netherlands must never become dependent on Russian gas either. We would also like the chairman of the Lower House to condemn the President of the Duma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u3	It is proposed that you, Madam President, protest to the colleague, the President of Parliament in Russia. But that same chairman of parliament is again on the European Union's penalty list, which the Netherlands is so keenly in favour of. So that man is not allowed in the Netherlands and Mr Bontes is not allowed in Russia. Does he not agree with me that we should actually ensure that parliamentarians, when they only give an opinion on a political issue, are by definition excluded from travel restrictions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u4	No, I don't. We are not the aggressor in this matter. We have not annexed Crimea. We have not interfered in the military struggle in Eastern Ukraine. It is very strange that Mr Van Bommel aligns the position of Dutch parliamentarians with that of the Russians. Actually, it's absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u5	I think parliamentarians have been hired to give their views. They're not on the border. They can approve something, just as Dutch parliamentarians once approved an illegal raid in Iraq. These are political views. In a situation where people and even countries are confronted, it is very important that their representatives continue to talk to each other. Does Mr Bontes share my view that we should strive for him to go to Russia to talk to the President of the Duma there and that the President of the Duma can come to the Netherlands to talk to Mr Bontes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u6	No, I do not want to be aligned with people from Russia who are on a penalty list. That's like comparing apples to pears. We're not going to compare ourselves to the aggressor, are we? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr Bontes experiences it as a compliment that he is on that list. I can imagine. At the same time, I see it as an insult to our Parliament. I wish that Mr Bontes could simply travel to Russia, not only to vent his criticism of Russia here but also there. The same applies to other officials on behalf of the Netherlands, for example our ambassador or perhaps the foreign minister when he visits his colleague Lavrov. Mr Bontes felt that his criticism had arrived in Moscow very hard. How wise is it then to remove the Dutch ambassador, who is not only able to criticise but can also handle other matters, from the Dutch and Dutch companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u8	That seems very possible to me. A sanction is a sanction. You have to play the game hard. That's what we know. With Putin, you shouldn't blink and you should be able to get your ambassador back. Putin will laugh at our trade interests and our weak knees when it comes to trade. He knows that he has a problem with this, among other things, Mr Ten Broeke. If you really want to play it sharp, you have to be able to do this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u9	If you want to play it hard, you can do it by making a very serious offense in the first minute of the game, and then you can think that this will have an effect. However, I think you need to operate a little smarter and you need to play it smart. Mr Bontes himself believes that the criticism he makes can also be made at other levels. He is also of the opinion that this criticism arrives in the Kremlin. Then how clever is it to withdraw our ambassador? Isn't that kind of the same as a serious offense in the first minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u10	No, I don't. I think it's very appropriate. Look at the number of incidents that have occurred from Russia. I call the annexation of Crimea. That is the first annexation since the Second War on the European continent. It had never happened before, but now it just happens. Mr Ten Broeke would like to continue trading. I'll go into the overdrive, without losing sight of reality. Imagine if the involvement of the Russians in bringing down the MH17 becomes even clearer, that that involvement is proven and established. Are we going to trade with Russia? What is the view of Mr Ten Broeke and the VVD? Are we still gonna have a chat with the ambassador and have a tea party? Then what's gonna happen? What if it is? It's very likely that's the case. So what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u11	You are very strongly asked to respond. I give you that opportunity, Mr Ten Broeke, even if it is the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u12	We will continue to trade with Russia. That's one thing for sure. Trade relations with Russia are such that they cannot be taken from today to tomorrow. It is an illusion to think that this will happen. It is also an illusion to think that one way or another you are punishing Russia with that. I would also like Mr Bontes to know that it can be effective to adjust your trade, as is the case with economic sanctions. But Russia just stays there. We must cleverly squeeze the regime, because that is responsible for the things that Mr Bontes and I are very critical of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u13	Shame on you, Mr. Chairman. Let's say that Russia has been involved in the murder of 200 countrymen. Are we gonna keep trading it? Terribly lame! Terribly weak. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u14	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u15	No, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u16	If I have to be ashamed of myself, I'll be addressed in person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u17	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u18	I am going to let you react, Mr Ten Broeke, but do not try to challenge Mr Bontes again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u19	I am very consciously not going to comment on Mr Bontes' claim that he already knows who is responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u20	I'm not saying that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u21	You just said that. You think I should be ashamed of myself because I do not want to take that conclusion from you already. I think that Mr Bontes should take a good look at what he thinks he can and does not say here and in whose interest that is. In whose interest do you act the moment you say this? I think we all represent these interests. If you want me to be ashamed, perhaps you should think about what your colleagues are throwing at you. There is no one in this Chamber, including yourself, who would not want to defend these interests or would not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u22	You are suggesting that you will continue to trade with Russia at all costs. Continue trading, no matter, no sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u23	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u24	Everything must be done to get the perpetrators of the murder of nearly 200 countrymen locked up. Russia's involvement in the attack on the MH17 seems more likely every day. According to Russian opposition leader Jashin, the West is too soft and Putin will never hand over the potential perpetrators. Does the Minister believe that Moscow will cooperate in a UN tribunal? Ronald Reagan was right when he talked about peace by force. We must invest in NATO and in our defence. Then I'm not talking about that symbolic tip from the cabinet or the couple hundred million from the VVD. We say 5 billion more. The naive policy of the cabinet must be brought to an end. As far as we are concerned, the installation of new American cruise missiles in Europe should not be excluded. We would like to hear a response from the Minister. We cannot afford idealist left-wing politics, especially against Putin and Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u25	Mr. Chairman. Ukraine literally means: the border country. A border country between the European Union and NATO on the one hand and Russia on the other. A border country between democracy, peace and security on the one hand and autocracy, repression, censorship and human rights violations on the other. And a border country whose borders have been trampled on for a year and a half since the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia. I will come back to that situation in a moment, but first I want to talk about 89 Europeans who are no longer allowed to enter Russia, including three Dutch people: Mr Servaes, Mr Bontes and Mr Van Baalen. I am pleased that the response of the Netherlands, the European Union and this Minister was firm. The issue was immediately raised with the colleague of this minister, Lavrov. We saw Lavrov's reaction publicly: this was a counter-reaction. Is there any indication from the Russian side of what the international legal ground was, or, if necessary, a land that originates in Russian law, for this list? Is there any possibility for colleagues to object to inclusion in this list? I'm going back to the bilateral relationship between the Netherlands and Russia. Back to the water separation moment on which the course of the Netherlands has been adjusted. The Secretary of Defense already speaks of an aggressive Russia. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was recently irritated and angry about Russia's attitude and does not call it business as usual. Yet a newspaper wrote that it is of all things. Could the Minister perhaps explain what has changed substantially since the water separation moment, other than the sanctions, with the Minister? I will explain later why I am asking. The discord in the policy is visible to everyone. Last week we saw Minister Koenders' colleague, Minister Kamp, in Nieuwsuur. So we're seeing this discord on the energy file. The cabinet doesn't seem to speak with one voice. The Foreign Minister says he does not want to be dependent on Russian gas, but the Minister for Economic Affairs says that we are likely to become more dependent on Russian gas. Surely that would undermine the credibility of our foreign policy at the moment? Can the Minister clarify this? What's the line now? Is it geopolitics or gas politics? Already a year ago D66 said that the Netherlands should become less dependent on Russian gas. Sustainable alternatives are the solutions. We are therefore asking what concrete steps this cabinet is taking to reduce Russia's energy dependence, without, of course, allowing Groningen to pay for it. Is the Minister prepared to send a letter to the Chamber on this subject together with his associate in office of Economic Affairs? How is the energy relationship with Russia now being shaped? How will this dependency be reduced within the Dutch framework? Then Ukraine, the border country where the tensions between NATO and Russia are increasing. Russia wants to place 40 intercontinental ballistic missiles and the Americans want to place cruise missiles in Eastern Europe. They are going to make a big contribution to the flashpower and station weapons in Poland. My group supports the commitment of the European Union and NATO to this, but still has questions about sanctions. The European Union has imposed sanctions against Russia in response to the annexation of Crimea and the Russian role in Eastern Ukraine. My group fully agrees with these sanctions. Can the Minister explain what the effects of these sanctions have been so far? The cabinet does not exclude new sanctions in the event of renewed escalation, but I would also like to ask out loud today whether these new sanctions are in fact already on the agenda when 6,500 people have died in Eastern Ukraine, NATO warns of massive amounts of Russian weapons in Eastern Ukraine, the Minsk agreement is still being trampled on and we do not actually see any Russian expression to de-escalate. I would like a response from the Minister and an explanation of what the European force field is like at the moment. We all know, of course, that the situation with Greece also plays an important role in this. To what extent can the Minister guarantee that we will be able to count on what we have seen in recent weeks, namely consensus within the European Union and the extension of sanctions? My group encourages it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u26	Mr. Chairman. More than a year after the outbreak of the war in eastern Ukraine and more than four months after a political agreement was reached, Minsk II is still not in sight of a lasting solution to the conflict. The state-fire achieved in February continues to be violated by both sides. That is a serious matter. It means that the death toll, which is already at 6,500, rises even further. It is the view of the SP that all efforts by the international community should focus on de-escalation of tension and implementation of the agreement reached in Minsk. Unfortunately, that is not what is happening now. Too many parties seem to see an advantage in further increasing tensions, with Cold War steel not being shunned. From the United States there are reports of heavy weapons stationing, including cruise missiles and tanks on European territory, also near the Russian border. There are also ongoing calls for further strengthening of military aid to Kiev, including through arms supplies and the scaling up of sanctions against Russia, sanctions that are already causing serious damage, including to European economies. Last week there was a great military exercise by NATO near the Russian border. Does the Minister agree with me that this is all oil on the fire? Russia is doing exactly the same thing: large-scale exercises are being carried out and military and weapons are being sent to the border and across the border with Ukraine. Last week, President Putin also announced that more than 40 intercontinental ballistic missiles will be added to the Russian nuclear arsenal this year. There is more and more talk in the media of a new arms race between East and West. Does the Minister share the concerns of the SP Group on this point? Russia responds by also imposing sanctions. Two MPs and a member of the European Parliament from the Netherlands are no longer allowed to enter Russia. This also does not contribute to the much-needed de-escalation. It is precisely parliamentarians who should be able to travel freely. This also applies to Russian parliamentarians who are on EU sanction lists. Does the Minister agree with that principle? Is he prepared to promote that both the European Union and Russia no longer impose travel restrictions on parliamentarians? Also in the parliamentary assemblies of which we are members, we should not agree to exclude the participation of Russian parliamentarians in consultations. We don't have much to talk about. Moreover, sanctions go beyond travel restrictions. They also affect the West and Russia in economic terms. The European Commission recently stated in a confidential report that the economic sanctions against Russia are successful, because Moscow is considerably worse off than the European Union. I think that's an odd argument. First of all, I would like to hear from the Minister whether these messages can be confirmed. However, there is a lot to be done. It seems to me that economic sanctions against Russia have an impact on the economy. Economic problems for the Russians, however, were not the purpose of the sanctions. That objective is political. This is a different attitude of Russia in the conflict in Ukraine. This does not seem to be the case, in fact, because of his attitude to the conflict in Ukraine and to the West, President Putin can count on very broad and, moreover, growing support from his own people. This is evident from the recent opinion poll of the Pew Research Center. Can the Minister respond to this? Does this mean that the sanctions are, at least in part, counterproductive? Moreover, it must be borne in mind that the willingness to suffer from sanctions in Russia is much greater than in the Netherlands and in Europe, and that the impact of sanctions on support for the own government is quite different from that here. We are also taking these sanctions into our own hands, not only economically but also politically. The best hope for Ukraine is the implementation of the Minsk Agreement. I ask the Minister to comment on the latest state of affairs. Is it possible to exert more pressure on all parties in Ukraine to find a solution to the political conflict in the eastern part of the country? Can the Minister specifically comment on the difference of opinion between Kiev and the rebels on the implementation of the decentralisation plans for the eastern regions? What is the state of play with regard to the economic blockade by Kiev of the Eastern regions? Are pensions still not paid, among other things? Is it also true that humanitarian aid barely reaches the area? Are the parties called upon to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u27	Mr Van Bommel says that the European Union is firing its own sanctions. Can Mr Van Bommel explain to me whether he is in favour or opposed of extending these sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u28	The sanctions aimed at Russia's actions around Crimea have supported my group. I will continue to support these sanctions. However, I would like to add that I do not have very high expectations that Crimea will return to Ukraine. I think we will have to ask ourselves whether we are going to continue with the same sanctions for a period of days, when we know that they have no result. I want that question open on the table. Or do we say at some point: we are going to see whether we can make progress in Ukraine itself or in Russia's actions? There could be room for this, especially with regard to the decentralisation plans. The current sanctions in respect of Crimea are therefore supported. Further sanctions do not support my party at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u29	However, let me be clear: Mr Van Bommel therefore supports all the sanctions currently in place. They all result from the annexation of Crimea, directly or indirectly. The question now is when are we going to apply these sanctions? Of this, the Cabinet and, in my view, the vast majority say of this Chamber: full implementation of Minsk. Does Mr Van Bommel distance himself from that? Does he have other standards for reducing these sanctions, and if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u30	To be quite precise, I would like to repeat my comment on the parliamentarians. Let's park that for a second. I said: we support the sanctions in respect of Crimea. Then you could say, "Yeah, go ahead with that." However, if these sanctions do not appear to have the effect that we want, namely that there should be political movement, then I think we should consider whether we can make progress in a way other than sanctions. In case this is the implication of your question, I do not want to wait until there is a full implementation of Minsk II before we take a critical look at the sanctions and reduce them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u31	I'd like to build on that. Mr Van Bommel says: I support all sanctions relating to annexation of Crimea. The sanctions associated with the situation in eastern Ukraine and with them the two Minsk agreements are now in Minsk II, he supports, but he would prefer to scale them down. Does he support them now, does he want to scale them down, or does he want to replace them with something else? And what would that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u32	My story is that I don't want to wait to think about the sanctions and continue with those sanctions. In fact, there is already a debate on the further scaling up of these sanctions. I am very clear about this: you do not have to knock on my door to scale up. I say that we should take a critical look at these sanctions already. Apparently we are not going to be able to manage, even though we all want to get movement, including in the Russians' attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u33	Mr Van Bommel rightly said that the Russians' stamina in terms of sanctions should not be underestimated. But that also means something for the stamina of hoarse Western democracies, who are generally used to asking for something new the day. The sanctions, combined with lower oil prices, are at present bringing Russia in a form of breathlessness. The question is: how much patience can Mr Van Bommel bear if he is already speculating about scaling and about other forms and 'thinking'? He can think here, and I invite him to do so. I'd say do that out loud. He has already rejected any form of military flag. So what is Mr Van Bommel's alternative to achieving these political results?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u34	There is no military flag in these sanctions. Nor have I heard anyone claim that there is a military solution to this conflict. I do not think that we differ in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u35	For the clarity...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u36	No, no, I don't want any further interruption right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u37	This is about sanctions. I think we need to think out loud about, for example, alleviating sanctions, when these decentralisation plans are being implemented, when we are going to take steps towards resolving this conflict and when we are getting Russia moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u38	Mr Van Bommel has already almost given up sanctions for Crimea, I understand. But he's already making an exception for East Ukraine. I wonder whether he will recognize that it is more or less possible to establish that Russian units and Russian equipment are still active in Eastern Ukraine at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u39	I said it myself: on the border and on the border. We are not different in this respect from perception and we are not different in our view. It is illegal and we must do something about it. We cannot, from our own security perspective, shrug our shoulders on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u40	I fully agree that we cannot raise our shoulders on this. But I get the impression that Mr Van Bommel does. If international law is violated, I know him on other dossiers as a warm advocate for taking action against that injustice. We are dealing here not only with a breach that has been going on for more than a year, but with a breach that continues to this day. Then why is he speculating about lifting these sanctions? You can't understand that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u41	The word "removal" is not in my text and I did not use it either. I just want to prevent both sides from saying that we are on our side and the Russians on their side: we have to go one step further and further in the sanctions, because we do not see any movement on the other side. I think that is an extremely dangerous development. The Dutch Government, I have praised it for this, has always said in Europe: we must work on de-escalation rather than escalation. In practice, however, I see only escalation: it must take longer, we must build further, we must bring soldiers into the region and bring weapons into the region. I think this is an extremely dangerous escalation, and I would therefore like to see it on my own side too, that we are finding instruments to stop this further escalation. That's my bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u42	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u43	Finally, the gas. I want to ask the government a simple question. The starting point is to bring the energy independence of the Netherlands closer. The question is whether we can realise this so quickly that we can afford an attitude whereby we and no longer extract gas from Groningen and close the tap in Russia. I think that question is on the table. It goes beyond just the instrument towards Russia, because it is also about interests in the Netherlands. When we talk big about Russia, we must also be able to explain this in Groningen. I hear too many voices now that want to serve all goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u44	Mr. Chairman. The PVV deeply regrets that Russia has imposed an entry ban on three Dutch representatives without making it clear what that is based on and without explaining how the persons affected could challenge the entry ban in law. Minister Lavrov's press conference shows that this is merely a retribution to the European list of persons denied access to European countries because of their actions against Ukraine's territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence. The PVV sees this retaliation as a weakness on the Russian side and does not have a good word for it. Is it true that this issue is settled after the Netherlands has expressed its displeasure and after the EU has done so? Is it stuck now or is there still room for movement? Can the Minister indicate whether there are any legal possibilities, even if Russia itself does not want to explain this to the injured Dutch representatives in order to challenge the restrained entry ban in law in Russia? Is the Dutch Government then prepared to support them in this? What is the scope for further discussion of this issue in international fora? What I would also like to know from the Minister is whether the EU sanctions on denying access from the Russian side are also being challenged in law. The developments in Ukraine itself are worrying. The OSCE notes that more and more fighting is taking place. What is the meaning of the Minsk agreements? Are they dead? Are they on the IV? Is there any chance of recovery and rescue? What about the implementation of reforms in Ukraine? They are, of course, essential. What can the Minister tell us about that? All good intentions and efforts will ultimately prove unworthy if the terrible corruption in that country is not brought to an end quickly and thoroughly. Does the Minister agree with me? The sanctions imposed do not have the desired effect. Russia seems to be adapting to the new situation of these sanctions and does not want to give in. Russia is not going to do what is necessary to get those sanctions lifted. Instead, Russia applies its own sanctions and, like the EU, has now extended them. The current sanctions have a major impact on Russia. I am referring to the shrinking of the Russian economy and the rising inflation rate of up to 16%. Russian reserves have fallen from 500 billion to 364 billion dollars in a year. The economic difficulties caused by the sanctions in Russia, which have been considerably deepened by the fall of oil prices, have not led to the desired changes. The opposite is the case. The situation has been conveniently exploited by the Russian Government to strengthen domestic aid by evoking the image that Russia is besieged by its enemies, There have also been reports that sanctions are now being significantly evaded. An article recently appeared on this subject in the Financial Times. For example, Turkey and Brazil, as well as supplies to non-sanctioned companies in Russia or Crimea, are used not only by means of detours through countries that are not bound by the sanction regime, but also by means of supplies to non-sanctioned companies in Russia or Crimea, after which it is not verifiable whether the goods do not end up with a sanctioned end-user. Does the Minister acknowledge that this is happening? Does he know to what extent that happens? It is of two and one: whether you close the holes and shortcuts as best you can or you conclude that you cannot or do not want to enforce the sanctions properly. What does the government choose in this respect? It's worse. We are not only dealing with a confrontation of sanctions, we are also facing a military confrontation, and increasingly, even in the field of nuclear deterrents. By making it a military confrontation, Putin can justify the Russian re-arming to his people. Moreover, some of the advocates of defence investment within NATO may not be bad either. The Russian Deputy Minister for Defence, who deals with the military industrial complex there, even enthusiastically said some time ago that it will be the defence industry in Russia that is going to tear the economy apart again. That doesn't excite the PVV. For now, the arms industry is the only real winner. I note that my speaking time has expired, so I shall leave it at first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u45	I have a question about the PVV's policy towards Russia. Mr De Roon is critical of this. A few weeks ago there was a resolution in the European Parliament that said: we condemn the annexation of Crimea and call on Russia to stop the clandestine war in Eastern Ukraine. What did the PVV vote? Against! How does Mr De Roon explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u46	I can only speak for my group here. What I have said here is the position of my group. We support the sanctions and do not see any movement on the Russian side with regard to the points of Crimea and the interventions in Eastern Ukraine. We do not agree with that. Those sanctions are in place and we support them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u47	I can see that the PVV Group in Europe is making a very different move. He's crawling towards Marine Le Pen. Mr Servaes is right to say that it is now one group. My question to Mr De Roon is: who should I believe, his representative in Brussels or him? In Brussels, there is a vote against resolutions condemning the annexation of Crimea. What is it, Mr. De Roon, your story or that story?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u48	It's my story here. We're against annexation. We believe that this is contrary to international law. It is unacceptable and intolerable. We are in favour of the sanctions imposed in connection with annexation. That's all I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u49	I think I've done the same homework as Mr Sjoerdsma. I noticed that not only the resolution itself was agreed, but also all the parts and amendments that were voted on separately. It is therefore a question of who actually voted in Brussels. The blacklist of politicians was condemned in the resolution in Brussels and the PVV voted against it. The PVV also voted against on the territorial integrity of Ukraine. I'd like an explanation as to how this could be done. There are three European MPs from the PVV who have voted. Don't they have anything to do with you anymore? Do I understand that they're all at the mercy of the Front National?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u50	There is, of course, no mention of a tradition at the Front National. We are working with a number of parties in the European Parliament because we want to reduce the influence of the European Union. This does not mean that we in The Hague agree with the National Front in all respects. On the contrary, today's subject is a good example of this. If you wish to clarify the voting behaviour in Brussels, you will have to look for it there, because I cannot give it to you. I can only tell you what my group's position is in the House of Representatives. I've just done that clearly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u51	It's amazing, isn't it, that I have to get in touch with those group members? I am giving Mr De Roon the non-binding advice to do so myself. I will go to Amendment No 942 from Brussels. That's interesting. This is about party financing from outside the European Union. I note that the PVV Group did not vote on this at all. Suddenly that group found it apparently uncomfortable to vote on it. I can imagine, because there is a party for its finances totally dependent on outside financing. In fact, she is dependent on Russian banks. Mr De Roon knows which party I am talking about from France. I would therefore like to know what the position of the PVV is. I don't care whether it's the PVV's position here in The Hague or the PVV's position in Brussels. At least I want to know about Mr De Roon. Does he think that it should be possible for a political party in Europe to be fully dependent on financial institutions in Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u52	That's what parties need to know for themselves. I wouldn't want to depend on that. That's my point of view. I certainly wouldn't want to depend on that under the current circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u53	Does Mr De Roon agree with me that, in the light of his speech on Russia, there is only one effective way forward for a firm stance, namely the path of a very coherent, coherent and united European policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u54	We believe that the European Union should not pursue any foreign policy at all. That is what the individual countries are supposed to do. So the Netherlands should also be strong and firm in this regard. The PVV wants that, too. We have no message about a coherent European policy in this area. We don't want that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u55	Does Mr De Roon agree with me that, if he wants to be so tough in that, it will become a story of a very small mouse against an elephant? Is this not the most alarming example of a situation where you need European cooperation in this European project to defend your own ideals, such as freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u56	No, we do not need the European project for that at all, because the position I am expressing here on Russia, and other countries in Europe, can also be agreed with each other without having a European Union. You don't need them for that. We have NATO. We are also in constant consultation on these matters. It's extremely important that we do that right. That's enough. We do not want a European Union in the field of foreign policy and security policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u57	Colleagues have just tried to point out the inconsistency of at least one part of the PVV in the European Parliament. May I ask Mr De Roon what he thinks, with retroactive effect, of the moment when his party leader, Mr Wilders, took the picture with the greatest of pleasure with Viktor Zubarev and a number of other members of Vladimir Putin's party, the United Kingdom? I believe it was in Milan. Mr Wilders also expressed his appreciation for this party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u58	I don't know that photo, and I don't know the circumstances under which it was taken. So I really cannot answer that question, as much as I would like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u59	Could Mr De Roon perhaps comment on the following? The European Union, when it comes to the PVV, is not about foreign policy, but above all about free trade. In any case, Mr De Roon himself said that when the European Union offered a free trade agreement to Ukraine, it provoked the Union, and so Russia's actions were in fact self-inflicted. Is Mr De Roon still taking care of that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u60	It is clear that Russia sees Ukraine, as well as other countries in Eastern Europe, as its sphere of influence. That is a fact on which you can say: we do not think it is right and it should not be. However, it is a fact. We think you should take that into account. If you do not do so, as you did not do at the time, then this will lead to escalations as they have occurred and which we all do not want and should not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u61	Thank you. As far as the Acts are concerned, I should like to point out that Mr Ten Broeke has just referred to the United Kingdom, where I assume he referred to the United Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u62	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u63	Mr. Chairman. The situation in Russia is very serious. The situation in Ukraine is serious. It is also serious that, in Russia's foreign policy, people are now going so far as to ban entry into the EU for parliamentarians. I come first to the situation in Russia. There are increasing violations of human rights and further restrictions on organisations that stand up for those human rights. Recently, laws have been passed in Russia which drastically limit this. Organisations such as Amnesty International are also getting louder and louder. Things are really going wrong in Russia. Where it was until a few years ago a country that we could say still had traces of democracy, we now have to observe that it is rapidly developing into a true dictatorship with one man in charge, who in every way restricts freedom of expression, who has imperialist tendencies abroad, who operates extremely dangerously and does not shy away from military muscle ballery. Military muscle balling should not stand in reverse military muscle balling, but it should stand in steadfastness and a coherent and common policy, especially in the European context, if possible also wider and, of course, also in NATO. This means that we strongly support the continuation of economic sanctions that have now been imposed against Russia. We also welcome the European decisions on this issue. But we do not think that we can escape to increase those sanctions further. It is clear that the sanctions do indeed hurt Russia. If there is one possibility of getting out of this at some point, it will be along the road of economic sanctions and the gradual dismantling of Putin's name and fame in his own country, in which, despite all propaganda, a lot of people know where this screaming inflation comes from and who caused it. That awareness will increase. That's good. Then it is all the more important that the Netherlands should put aside its traditional trade spirit, speak with one voice and stand firm in what it thinks, thinks and does about sanctions. It is not possible for the Minister for Economic Affairs to say that it is nice to bring some more Russian gas here, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, quite rightly, points out that this dependence is extremely dangerous and that we should not do so. It also runs counter to the policy of economic sanctions. Can the Minister confirm that the government's position is that we need to reduce Russian gas dependence as quickly as possible, that it does absolutely nothing to strengthen trade relations further under these conditions of sanctions? Can the Minister also explain what other aspects of trade relations are in the picture that we should actually ask ourselves whether we should continue to do so? I am referring not only to gas, but also, for example, to huge oil imports and sales via the port of Rotterdam. We are one of Russia's largest oil customers. In my group's view, it is time to adopt a coherent policy on all these aspects in order to stop doing so. But first of all, it is about dependence on gas. If this were to create a unity of policy in the government, this would once again mean that we in the Netherlands will have to get rid of our gas addiction. Under pressure from international circumstances, we may have to do so even faster than we should anyway, because of the limited supply of gas, because of the earthquakes in Groningen and because of our climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u64	Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, since the beginning of this conflict in Eastern Ukraine, we have counted nearly 6,400 dead and 16,000 wounded. However, despite some incomprehensible decisions, such as the appointment of a former Georgian president as governor in Odessa, the Ukrainian government is trying to make a difference. In particular, the new Minister of Finance in the cabinet, Mrs Natalie Jaresko, has my confidence. How does the Minister look at the economic recovery plans that Ukraine has put forward, especially in order to convince the IMF and the World Bank? What will be the European role in this? The crux remains that the Minsk II agreement is not being respected. There are several reports about the deployment of mortars, missiles and artillery around Marioepol and Donetsk. Russia would still supply weapons and drones to separatists and provide them with training. My question to the Minister is: are these messages correct? Can the OSCE confirm these messages? Does the Minister expect Minsk II to be saved? What means other than the sanctions, which I come up with, do the EU have at its disposal to make Minsk II succeed? What are the scenarios if that doesn't work? The sanctions were extended by the European Council on 19 June. That is what I am saying to my fellow Members here, and in particular to Mr Bontes, who had our support last year and who now have our support. It now appears to be a hammer piece for the EU. That's special. Last year there was a very difficult agreement, but this extension seems to have come very easily. Yet we must also keep an eye on Europe, because we saw Tsipras begging in Moscow and Renzi complimentously in Rome. It is certainly not easy to achieve unity in Europe on this part of foreign policy that ultimately has to bear fruit. That's why we need breath, long breath. In particular, Russia has a responsibility to stop the violence. It committed itself to the Budapest Memorandum, which regulates the territorial integrity of Ukraine. It also has a political responsibility to stop training and arming the separatists who run it themselves. However, it is clear that Russia is looking for chaos and perhaps even more country cock in Ukraine. However, Russia is slowly coming into breath, financially, economically and even monetaryly. Last year, Russia faced a capital flight of 151 billion dollars. In the first quarter of this year there was another 33 billion dollars. Investors think twice before investing in Russian projects. Individual sanctions also affect the circle around Putin. You can see that there are strange reactions to that, which are well known on the basis of Russian logic. Think of the decision or at least the announcement where have we heard it before? In order to acquire more than 40 new long-range rockets with a nuclear capability. I think it should be referred to as an emergency jump for the time being, but a cat in a tight spot makes weird jumps. That is one of the reasons why contact is so important, I say to Mr Bontes. We didn't just learn from the Cold War that you have to keep a back door open. It is in the interests of us, our citizens and the safety of the people who live here, for example, to prevent near accidents. This requires contact, diplomacy and an open hand. So it would be incredibly stupid to bring an ambassador back. Last year it became clear that, with Russia, we ended up in a different situation. Hence the watershed moment. In order to show that the NATO alliance is not intimidated, we have taken various measures as an alliance: exercises, the Baltic Air Policing and the setting up of a flash force. Does the Minister think that these measures will have an impact on the communication that is still available? Many violations of our own airspace have been noted. In October of last year alone, nineteen interceptions were supposed to have taken place, but the reports contradict each other. Can the Minister tell us which messages are reliable? Are there any figures for that at all? The immediate reason for this debate in this Chamber is the ban on entry published on 29 May last for 89 European parliamentarians and prominent Members of Parliament. They were blacklisted by Russia. That list lacks any legal foundation. As far as I am concerned, we Members of Parliament are not going to travel to a country where our colleagues are boycotted and we agree on this. I hope I can count on your full support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u65	Mr Ten Broeke mentioned those Russian missiles, the Iskander missiles which are now being stationed close to the European border. Is the debate on cruise missiles open again as far as Mr Ten Broeke is concerned? Is that again negotiable for him or does he exclude the fact that on European territory and perhaps also on Dutch territory, cruise missiles come again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u66	Even at a time when Mr Bontes was singing another song, to another party, my party has made it very clear and very consistent that we are in favour of the modernisation of cruise missiles or of the nuclear arsenal in NATO. I fully support that today. In fact, the urgency of this has actually only increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u67	That answer is clear, so I have Mr Ten Broeke on my side when I say that there should be cruise missiles, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u68	You have me on your side today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u69	Mr Ten Broeke, you must first let Mr Bontes ask his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u70	That remark is clear, but the remark that I'm singing another song, I don't quite understand. Perhaps Mr Ten Broeke can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u71	I'd like to explain. I've met you in different ways. I ran into you when we had to cut back on the DOD and when you didn't think that was enough. Today I run into you, while you want to spend more. I sometimes come across you in the capacity of someone who saw it as a provocation that Europe wanted to conclude a free trade agreement with Ukraine, as I have just accused Mr Wilders. Today you once again represent the integrity of Crimea, once part of Ukraine and perhaps still part of Ukraine, at least if it is up to me. For example, there are several faces of Mr Bontes. We can have a whole discourse on that, but I don't know how meaningful that is. You are part of a fraction of two, but you often show a sad face on your own.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u72	Can't I just respond to that for a second? It's an incoherent story. I have always been extremely consistent in my speeches. That cannot be said by the VVD and certainly by Mr Ten Broeke, because it rotates from left to right, and that goes on day and night. Show me when I have not been consistent in my texts on Ukraine, Russia or the EU. Show it to me, you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u73	I have just given two examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u74	That there's been cuts, that was in conjunction. That was the heavy price for accepting the VVD and the CDA, so please don't blame me now. Oh, that's a weak bite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u75	Because of course there were no cuts in the PVV programme, I remember. Mr Knops was there at the time. It was 1.2 billion and Mr Bontes' signature was very large.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u76	I will see if Mr Bontes is coming back, but I believe this is the end of it. Mr Ten Broeke is now in favour of a very strong policy on Russia. That is where his party and my party find each other, but an important question that is now hanging over the market is what is to be done alongside these sanctions and that firm political stance with regard to the energy issue. In the cabinet we see two camps, namely the Camp camp: more Russian gas, and the Koenders camp, which says: let us reduce this dependence. My question to Mr Ten Broeke is what camp he is in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u77	I think this contradiction has been somewhat sought. I'll try to explain why. We live in a country in which the political discourse in the Chamber is so that we do not want windmills on land or at sea. We do not want nuclear power stations or coal power stations. We don't want Groningen gas, we don't want Russian gas, we don't want shale gas. But we do want to cook, stoke and occasionally in the shower; on average about ten minutes a morning in the Netherlands. All these wishes try to unite and do nothing for them, I think that is the discrepancy that we are talking about here. I understand the Minister of Economic Affairs says he's going to scale off Groningen. That's necessary, that's what we have to do, that's what we all want. But if everyone wants to keep showering, there's got to be some compensation coming from somewhere. I do not know of any unknown gas or oil field that we can then tap, but perhaps Mr Sjoerdsma will. For the time being, I do not see any alternatives to those mentioned there. Of course, we want to remain as independent as possible from the Putins and Ayatollahs of this world, which I believe was a VVD statement, and I am making that statement today. You will find me on your side when it comes to the import of LNG from the United States. It's possible these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u78	You have a lot to share, but we're going to try to narrow it down a bit. I would like to give you some space, but now this debate is getting very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u79	In any case, I think it is a gain that the VVD Group supports the decision to reduce gas extraction in Groningen and that it fully supports it; that was quite different recently. It is now a year after the beginning of this conflict. A year ago, my group, the PvdA Group and the GroenLinks Group called for a further reduction of our dependence and a greater commitment to energy saving and renewable energy. Mr Ten Broeke just mentioned the problem exactly: nothing is happening. That is what the cabinet has been doing for a year: nothing. The cabinet does nothing to reduce that dependency. That is why I ask Mr Ten Broeke whether he chooses the camp of Minister Kamp or our camp, the camp of renewable energy, the energy saving and, if necessary, the liquid gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u80	Or the side of the MPs on a blacklist. I think that was the port of tonight's debate. I understand the temptation, but the gas debate is scheduled for next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u81	Energy policy is foreign policy. Russia was also included in the original title of this debate. It's about Ukraine. Let us not censor this debate now. This is the heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u82	Nuclear energy is rejected by the parties mentioned by Mr Sjoerdsma. Coal-fired power stations are rejected. More Groningen gas needs to be reduced in Groningen. Russian gas is not allowed, although we already import it a little bit. Shale gas is not allowed either. Windmills on land are not good and windmills at sea are not good. Mr Sjoerdsma himself will have to establish consistency in some of the examples I have just given. There is no camp that has provided a solution. Take, for example, the bet of D66. If Mr Sjoerdsma speaks of...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u83	Mr Ten Broeke...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u84	Mr Sjoerdsma is clearly concerned with what does and does not work to achieve Russia's independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u85	I am trying to get you to answer, but I am also trying to ensure that you do not start a new debate. I think I heard your point. I give the floor to Mr Grashoff for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u86	My interruption is somewhat along the lines of this. I think what Mr Ten Broeke is doing here is a bit of a debate trick. This is not a question of energy policy. I would like to have that discussion with Mr Ten Broeke, but I think the President is right to say that this is not entirely the intention this evening. The point is that a question has been put to him. I'd be happy to repeat it. There are two rulers. One ruler says he wants more Russian gas here and now, under the current circumstances, while the other ruler says he wants less Russian gas. Does Mr Ten Broeke at least agree with me that the cabinet should speak with one voice and that this is not a good thing? Does he also agree with me that under the current circumstances, in view of the whole discussion, the goal should be to reduce Russian gas and to speed it up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u87	We can quickly agree on the goal: preferably as little dependence as possible on unstable regimes. That's what the VVD Group has been calling for ten years. She has put forward proposals for this. Contrary to parties calling on Europe in this Chamber, for example, we do not want to copy Gazprom in Brussels. We want real liberalisation and a truly liberal energy market, but that is blocked by parties such as Mr Grashoff's. We want to import LNG, but that's stopped by parties like his. We believe that nuclear energy should be considered, but that is blocked by parties such as his. We are talking about savings that work rather than illusions, but parties like his don't want to think about that. In other words, we are constantly putting forward solutions to achieve this independence, albeit not always with the success of a majority. I do not see a fundamental distinction between the view of Minister Kamp, who wants to scale down gas drilling in Groningen and look for alternatives, and the view of Minister Koenders, who says that Europe and the Netherlands should in the long term be rid of that dependence on regimes such as Putin. We told him that ten years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u88	This is a very special criticism towards a party that advocates more wind at sea, more wind on land, more energy savings, more heat pumps and more solar panels. What are you thinking of blaming me for these things, Mr Ten Broeke? This can't be happening. You're wrong, I think, who you're in front of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u89	I'm not wrong about who I'm dealing with. What, then, is Mr Grashoff's contribution to coal-fired power stations, and what is the contribution to the...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u90	No, no, no. Mr Ten Broeke, I have said it four times now. You ask a question every time. You're totally into that, but I don't like it. You have to give answers here. If you're standing there, you can ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u91	I'll give you an answer. I'll do that with an exclamation point. Mr Grashoff and his party do not offer alternatives to the points I have just mentioned: neither for shale gas, nor for the import of LNG, nor for nuclear energy, nor for responsible European cooperation in the liberalisation of the energy market. You don't have any alternatives on any of these points. We do. I do know very well who I have in front of me. That is exactly why I am putting this criticism before you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u92	One more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u93	This is really too crazy for words. I have seen many debates, but never that I am blamed for the opposite of what my party is committed to. It's exactly the blaming I'm making the VVD. It is the VVD that does not pay sufficient attention to the energy transition and thus maintains natural gas dependence. In the end, it is Mr Ten Broeke who does not want to give an honest answer, and who bypasses an answer three times, if I just ask him one simple question. Either we go to less gas from Russia, or we go to more. He's turning around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u94	Mr President, I would like to support you. In fact, I think that perhaps the precise composition of the energy mix should be discussed by the energy spokesmen next week. The political question before us as foreign speakers is, of course, whether we think that energy policy or trade policy should be viewed by foreign policy. This morning I read and heard energy spokesperson Bosman, Mr Ten Broeke's colleague, saying: you have to separate those two. You should put trade policy outside foreign policy. You really need to separate energy policy from the political dimension. Knowing Mr Ten Broeke a little bit, I would like to ask him very briefly: that cannot be the VVD position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u95	For many years in the Chamber, I have consistently and consistently said that energy policy is also foreign policy. I can give examples of this. I have just quoted a statement that I believe is already ten years old. I believe that this belonged to Mr Paul de Krom, from when he was still operating as an energy spokesperson for the VVD. He said: we must become less dependent on the Putins and ayatollahs of this world. That statement was repeated by many after that. So yes: energy policy is foreign policy. That also means that you have to dare to make choices from that perspective. What my colleague Mr Bosman has said is that it does not work to close all the alternatives if, in the short term, you face a challenge like we have in Groningen. Mr Servaes read something this morning, but I read something this afternoon. I read this afternoon that he had a beautiful article in NRC Handelsblad...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u96	No, no, no. You can ask that question if Mr Servaes is standing right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u97	I have no question but a view, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u98	No, you may answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u99	Perhaps Mr Servaes is going to ask me a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u100	I think Mr Servaes himself knows very well what he is going to ask a question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u101	Of course, Mr Ten Broeke will have every opportunity in a moment, because I seem to be next. Where I previously advised Mr De Roon to make a call to Strasbourg, it might be nice for Mr Ten Broeke to walk in the Chamber next to him and remind him of the VVD doctrine that energy policy is foreign policy. The question is when is Minister Kamp going to discuss and think about scenarios? Does Mr Ten Broeke agree with me that one of the most important dimensions, test stones or criteria to be met by this new energy mix is geopolitics? The geopolitical conclusion is, of course, to reduce dependence on Russian gas as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u102	Reducing dependence on regimes with unstable, autocratic regimes is always a good idea. But the people in Groningen, who are also served by your party with a plea for less gas, have no message in the short term. And so the Dutch government, with a responsibility not only for Groningers but all the Dutch who want to keep showering, will still have to come up with a solution. If that solution is that more gas needs to be imported, it will have to be one of the solutions under consideration. We cannot close all the doors and at the same time continue the way we were used to living. Gas is essential. I just turned it in. You can't reject all the alternatives and at the same time think you can keep doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u103	Thank you. I call Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u104	Let's switch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u105	I'm afraid so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u106	Mr. Chairman. Before we do another round of energy, I would like to return to the debate: the so-called blacklist. I have said it before: in comparison with the larger picture we are talking about, a major conflict in Eastern Ukraine and earlier in Crimea, the destruction of a passenger plane with innocent civilians is what has to do with this black list in the category of'small suffering'. Nevertheless, I would like to express my sincere thanks to colleagues who have spoken today or earlier on this subject of solidarity. I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for the words you have devoted to this right after it became known. I would also, of course, like to thank the Minister for his decisive action: calling on the temporary agent and the messages he has personally sent to Moscow. Having said that, I'm going back to the content. The reason for this debate, for the earlier general consultation we had planned, was the famous water separation moment. That was the moment the cabinet marked a week after taking down flight MH17. I think the cabinet was right to mark that. But the fact that the water separation moment is not so self-evident proved yesterday in a very painful way in an interview with VNO President De Boer. In that interview, he mentioned taking down MH17 as an "incident." He said we have to keep going. And as if that one statement wasn't painful enough, I found it utterly disgusting, heartless and strange. The verdict doesn't give any testimony as to what happened. I am referring not only to taking down that plane, but also to the changed geopolitical situation. There is another reality that also calls for a different relationship. Fortunately, the cabinet recognises this and a comprehensive letter from the cabinet explains how to change that relationship. We now know the metaphor of Minister Koenders: the fist for sanctions, the muscle for putting NATO defence in order and the open hand for continuing dialogue, where possible also between parliamentarians. So it is not certain that we in society, in Europe and in business can maintain that awareness that we are dealing with a different relationship, that there really is a watershed. We're gonna have to hold on to that. The subject in which it really is most expressed at the moment is energy. Minister Kamp's statement that if it is not from Groningen, then it must come from Russia, has already been discussed here today. If there's any disagreement between Camp and Koenders, I'll be in the Camp Queens. I have three questions about this. My first question concerns the cooperation that Shell and Gazprom announced last week: the doubling of the Nord Stream gas pipeline. How does this announcement relate to the sanctions we currently have? Wasn't it true that we had asked energy companies to stop working with the Russians in the technological field? What does that mean for Nord Stream? What does the much broader Agreement of Strategic Cooperation, which Shell and Gazprom signed in Saint Petersburg, with a glass of champagne? What role does the Minister see for the government to test this type of action against the criteria? Is there still a question of licences to be issued? The second point concerns an element that I somewhat missed in the further excellent letter, namely an overview of what we are doing now. What efforts does this minister make to make the EU less energy dependent and ultimately to diversify in the supply of different forms of energy? Is he willing to say anything about that now? Or would he like to answer that question in writing? The third point concerns the following. We are waiting for what I call the Camp report. We will receive that, I think, later this year. The question is: the further after less gas from Groningen? I ask the Minister the same question as I already asked the colleague of the VVD: does he agree with me that this balancing framework should explicitly take into account geopolitical circumstances? Let's not just look at the technique. We certainly need to look at security of energy supply, but we also need to consider geopolitical issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u107	With regard to the conflict of opinion in the cabinet between Minister Kamp and Minister Koenders, Mr Servaes clearly chooses, and as far as I am concerned, rightly so, for the Koenders camp. He wants us to be less dependent on Russian gas instead of importing more Russian gas, as Minister Kamp argues. The question is, however, what Mr Servaes believes should be done to reduce this dependence on Russia. What would the cabinet come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u108	As I said earlier, we should not repeat the debate on energy spokesmen. We must present it, because they will have to debate it next week. But I think Mr Sjoerdsma knows in general terms what kind of energy my party puts its cards on. This is primarily the sustainability of energy supply. I think that things such as diversification and the question of how to get it from other parts of the world should be taken into account. Then, of course, you can talk about those famous LNG terminals. In this respect, we are not ruling anything out in advance. It has to be a mix, but I want geopolitics to be explicitly taken into account in the composition of that mix and Koenders to watch with Kamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u109	That brings me to the next point. I've asked the Cabinet to send us a letter. The question is: what plans do Minister Koenders and Minister Kamp have to reduce this dependence? Is that something Mr Servaes could support? At least we have that integrated vision. Then we are not dealing with separate interviews in Nieuwsuur and good letters from Minister Koenders. Is the PvdA open for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u110	Sure. I tabled a motion on this with GroenLinks myself more than a year ago. That motion was about the European story. I have also tabled a motion to the Foreign Affairs budget, together with Mr Ten Broeke, asking not only for a political marking of the watershed but also for the energy dimension to be incorporated into it. I miss that dimension. It is not explicitly described in it. Whether we want a separate piece or want it to be included explicitly in the Kamp piece, I do not care at all, but that common vision needs to be established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u111	A common vision is always good, especially when you have just found that there may be two camps. We need to make sure that we get one more vision as soon as possible. I want to see if Mr Servaes can do the same. As I mentioned earlier, before you rightly cut me off, Mr Servaes has also given an interesting speech to the paper today. In this he makes a lot of observations which I think we all do to varying degrees, but I missed the point a bit. Isn't the point that something's gonna change? Whether it was the constructions that Russian companies in the Netherlands created or the idea that energy should be part of the sanction package in the future, we all know that, because that's just part of the third phase, the Labour Party doesn't choose. I would like to see the Labour Party, through the foreign spokesperson, who, according to his own words, is also, in some sense, energy spokesperson, making that choice here. What's to change? What is this cabinet supposed to do other than do it right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u112	Of course, giving reviews of each other's opinion papers is always interesting and we must continue to do so. I'd like to put this in perspective. If there has been one party that has always been at the forefront of the discussion on Ukraine and Russia and which, before European sanctions were imposed, has said 'we must start imposing those sanctions', then it is my party. Before taking the step towards economic sanctions, we said that we should have done so after Crimea. And now we say: look at deepening, especially in the energy field, and test the behaviour of business much more sharply than has been done so far. We've always done that. I am now putting forward a number of proposals. Those mailboxes on the Amsterdam Zuidas are an important example of this. I was shocked when, after the sanctions against the Ukraine of Yanukovych, we found hundreds of millions of dubious money. I therefore believe that much more action is needed in all these areas. That was indeed well described in that piece of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u113	I would like to hear a proposal precisely because Mr Servaes is so keen to see him lead the way everywhere. That was a bit missing from the article. In it he recalls and analyzes, but it does not say what the cabinet needs to change in concrete terms. It does not say that PO Box companies should be abolished. It does not say that sanctions should be increased at the moment. There is no question of taking the lead that we all saw last year. I would like to see what specific recommendations Mr Servaes would like to make to the cabinet. Hence my question, without wanting to give a review, other than an analysis that I can largely share: what does Mr Servaes want from this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u114	I have just mentioned two of them explicitly. The first is: test the behaviour of business, including the Royal Shell, against the criteria and sanctions currently in force. I note that this has not happened so far and that a huge agreement with Gazprom has been signed with a lot of bombs. That has not yet been responded to by the government. That's one. The second point is this. If a national energy strategy is to be written, geopolitics must be explicitly included. In any case, I have noted that this is not entirely clear to some ministers. I say that with some understatement. The third element in the opinion document is about when we are ready to draw conclusions on what happened to the MH17 and what possible role Russia has played in it. I shall now return to Mr Bontes. I have mentioned some of those possible additional measures, sanctions or whatever you want to call them. I understand the cabinet isn't ready yet. We cannot afford to have the appearance of partiality at the moment. So there are two things that need to be done now and one third that we need to discuss shortly: that seems very clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u115	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u116	Mr Ten Broeke, we had agreed that we would be doing interrupts in two. One of the reasons for this is that you always need a lot of time to ask one question. I propose that Mr Servaes continue with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u117	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u118	Then I give the floor to Mr Knops of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u119	Mr. Chairman. It's always interesting to see how VVD and PvdA fight a little rubbert in the Chamber at this point. As far as I am concerned, it should have gone on for a while: I cannot get enough of it. However, I understand that you have other obligations. For those who forgot: the debate was about the entry bans for parliamentarians. I have listened very carefully to the broadening that has been made, but that was what it was about. Let me make it clear straight away that our group believes that the Russian list lacks any foundation of international law and is not transparent. It is no more, as has been admitted, than a response to EU sanctions, including entry bans for Russian officials. The difference is that these persons are involved in the illegal annexation of Crimea, the hybrid war that Russia is conducting in Ukraine. Colleagues Bontes and Servaes have not been guilty of an invasion of Russia and MEP Van Balen who, together with Verhofstadt, was screaming 'we have won' at Maidan Square. They merely express an opinion which the Kremlin apparently does not like. This is indicative of the climate in Russia and the climate between Russia and the West. You also wonder why no more Dutch parliamentarians were on this list when you see who has been refused entry. In Russia, repression is increasing. Civil society organisations are increasingly restricted and an NGO receiving funding from abroad must register as a foreign agent. At the end of May, Putin signed the law on undesirable organisations, which could criminalise activities that Russia considers to be a threat to state security, defence or the constitution. The law can make contact with Russian human rights defenders virtually impossible. The question is how the Minister looks at this and what consequences this has for the Dutch commitment to human rights in Russia. The EU calls the law worrying and the question is why we are not taking a stronger stance on this issue. Our group welcomes the extension of EU sanctions. There is every reason for that. In Russia itself, communism relives in a new jacket, Putinism. In Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, the Russians are guilty of serious human rights violations and Russia is violating the Minsk II agreement. A new mass offensive appears to be imminent. In addition, there is a threat of language against the West and an arms race is announced, for example with new nuclear missiles. There would be thousands of soldiers in the enclave Kaliningrad. There would also be verbal weapons clatter in the direction of the Scandinavian countries. Sweden joining NATO will have consequences, according to the Kremlin. Let's be clear. During the Netherlands-Russian year there was already a series of incidents. Relations with Russia have deteriorated considerably. Our group supports the approach of the Minister of this cabinet of pressure and dialogue. We therefore also support the strengthening of the NRF, as decided by NATO and the American plans to deploy heavy equipment in Eastern Europe. I say this to Mr Van Bommel and Mr Grashoff. As far as the CDA is concerned, I'd even like to add a tooth. The flash force is suitable against green males, not against a major attack on the Baltic states. Putin recently claimed he'd be in Talin within an hour if he wanted to. The question is whether it's bluff or reality. Is it true that the Duma, the Supreme Court, has been asked to give an opinion on the legality of the division of the Baltic States in 1991? This is how it began towards Crimea. What doesn't exactly contribute to de-escalation is Lithuania's open announcement to supply arms to Ukraine. How does the Minister see this? The Minister talks about the importance of a muscle, but the question is what this minister and the cabinet are doing about it. Our group has already expressed its deep disappointment at the way in which the cabinet deals with the Van der Staaij motion. This motion is simply not being carried out. She is pushed forward and lacks all the urgency you would expect. Rutte breaks Wales's promise, already in the first year after the appointments. The threat is increasing, the defence budget is falling and the armed forces are running in the red. The same applies to European countries. Without the Americans, Europe is weak. Pressure on Russia is therefore necessary, but also de-escalation where possible. Ukraine must also be called upon to respond to its violation. The Minister visited Moscow. We have received a letter, in which he refers very briefly. It would be good if the Minister also reflected on his impression of Moscow's attitude from his own experiences. Finally, the MH17, not the least important topic in this Chamber. That has already been mentioned by colleagues. After the summer, the report of the Security Research Council and the D.A.'s report will be published. Are they still on course to appear in September or October? Does this mean that the draft agreement is already finished? The CDA has always advocated the establishment of the prosecution route before the report appears. Following the visit by the Minister, we ask the government to tell us what is going on with the possibility of prosecution. After all, when the suspect comes into the picture, it must also be clear who can arrest him and who can bring him to justice. That is not the case at the moment. Russia is an important trading partner, a neighbour of NATO and the EU and a permanent member of the Security Council. There are common interests, such as preventing a nuclear Iran, but also the fight against the IS. It is a threat to Russia as much as it is to the West. Further escalation is in no one's interest. Let us hope that the strategy of muscle, fist and an open hand works, but then we have to do everything we need ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u120	Thank you. This brings to an end the first term of office. I propose that we suspend briefly and then proceed with the response of the Foreign Minister in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u121	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their initial contribution and to endorse the importance of this evening's subject. I would like to thank Mr Bontes for asking for this debate, because I think it is important to speak in this Chamber about something that concerns us all: the relationship with the Russian Federation is, of course, even more specific about this and the question of how we should actually deal with that country, which is rapidly changing in a negative way. What resources do we have? What is the effectiveness of that? It is a country that lies to a large extent in Europe. We have no enmity with the Russian people. We have long-standing historical and cultural ties with the country. With Russia becoming increasingly assertive towards neighbouring countries, and also within the country, in order to further restrict the scope for independent political debate, it is a difficult situation to shape the right policy. I've always said it has to be in a triple. I would like to work that out again today, and I would like to comment on the questions that have been raised. The fact that a number of Dutch parliamentarians, including Mr Bontes and Mr Servaes, have been given a ban on entry here, points out, after last year's terrible disaster, how developments in eastern Europe directly affect us, our work and our democracy. I would like to classify the answer as follows. First of all, I would like to say something about the general relationship with Russia. The word "water separation" has been dropped. I would like to address Mr Bontes' questions about the entry ban and the reaction of the Dutch Government, but also from various other actors in the Netherlands and beyond. In view of the fact that there is also a great deal of change in Russia itself, which may be a trend of many years, I would like to say something about the questions raised in the area of domestic politics, human rights and the media in recent years. Several groups have asked for this. Then I will go into the questions that have been asked about Russia's foreign policy and, in particular, about some of the elements of the fist we are making, so to speak. Are the strengthening of NATO and the various exercises good policies or not? I shall then turn to bilateral relations. Of course, it can't be business as usual, that seems obvious to me. I have been asked a few questions in the field of energy and economics. Of course, it is important that I inform the Chamber of what is actually happening in Ukraine, because that is, of course, essential. When we talk about sanctions later, it is also about the implementation of the Minsk agreement. Let me begin by saying that the changes we are seeing now are not a Russia that is becoming more assertive to its neighbours, while within the country the space for independent political debate is becoming increasingly restricted in itself, but are very worrying. They started in the 1990s, but accelerated rapidly. That gives cause for great concern. In the months preceding President Putin's new term of office in March 2012, there was, I think, for the first time since the turbulent 1990s, substantial social unrest in Russia. The answer to this was a restriction of the freedom to demonstrate and punishments were imposed on the participants of the protests around the elections. In recent years, this has been followed by increasingly restrictive legislation on the use of the Internet and NGOs, among others, Mr Grashoff, who received foreign funding and carried out so-called political activities. The independent media in Russia have also come under pressure, while matters such as infotainment and propaganda are increasing. With the annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the crisis in Eastern Ukraine, Russia has accelerated in a relatively short time to become a country with which relations have become much more complicated, almost overall. It is very important how we get out of this impasse. I think that's the most essential thing. Do we have a method of de-escalating relations, as Mr Bommel called it, and shaping them in a different way, when we see that assertiveness and internal aggression increase? We have indeed said that the most important thing is to strike a proper balance between the pressure of sanctions under Article 5 of NATO on the one hand and, where possible, communication and dialogue on the other. In doing so, without any naivety, we must set a sharp course. A number of Members of Parliament have rightly said so. There can be no naivety. However, we need to look closely at how these relations between the Russian Federation and Europe take shape. I would like to say in an introduction: it is not 1914 now, it is not 1938 and it is not a Cold War. That's what makes it so complicated. However, we must be naive about this, given the change in the rules of the game in Europe through destabilization in Eastern Europe, the direct restriction of the territorial integrity of a country and the violation of a ban on violence. Something's going on. That is why I am sticking to the'muscle balls': the sanctions. The unity of Europe and of the world are really important here. I am also pleased that we have managed to maintain unity in Europe. A lot of concern has been expressed about that. Nevertheless, it has been proved again this week, at the meeting of the Foreign Ministers last Monday. We also see that NATO is very active in many ways: with different exercises, with prepositioning and with the position in the Baltic States. The Netherlands is also actively participating in this. The key words "unit makes power" are part of that. We cannot determine it entirely alone in the Netherlands. We must ensure that Europe can continue to share that strong and sharp line as a whole. Fortunately, that is the case now. It is really important that the roll-through of these sanctions has actually gone without problems. That is not surprising in itself. I shall come back to that later, given the situation in Minsk. It's a tragic occasion, you might say. The progress of Minsk II, which is linked to this package of sanctions, has certainly not led to any possibility of alleviating the sanctions. Given the questions that have been asked, I'd like to start with the entry ban. I would like to say a few words about the internal situation and the questions about it. Then I come to the other points raised by Members. I come to the point of the members of your Chamber who have been banned from entering Russia. There are, as you know, 3 Dutch, out of a total group of 89 names of persons from different EU Member States, to whom an entry ban has been imposed on Russia. The EU representative at the Dutch embassy in Moscow was informed of this in the afternoon of 28 May. The same evening, my ministry informed the persons concerned personally. I have, because of the great difficulty I have with this and the rejection of this measure, ordered the Russian temporary defendant to be summoned to the ministry. We have made it clear there that we are outraged by this entry ban. Of course, Russia has the formal right to decide for itself who is to be admitted to its territory. But, as some Members of Parliament have said, that should be transparent, reasoned. Why is someone on that list? It should also be clear how such a decision can be challenged legally. None of that was the case, and that is still not the case. The Russian temporary agent has been asked to convey that message to Moscow. I did so in person on 5 June with my colleague, Mr Lavrov. Since they were also Members of the European Parliament, we, as the Dutch Government, have also taken the initiative to arrive at a joint European response. You know that there has also been a statement in the same sense as that of the Dutch Government on the arbitrary and unjust action of the Russian Government in relation to entry bans. I think it is important to note the following, also in view of the debate with Mr Van Bommel. I think there is a big difference between the Russian list and the EU sanctions. The EU has imposed sanctions for actions that undermine or threaten the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. In other words, because of serious violations of international law. Under this sanction regime, access to the EU has been denied to certain persons who have contributed to undermining the territorial integrity, sovereignty and/or independence of Ukraine. In some cases, financial assets have also been frozen. The EU list is public and the Russian list is not. You could say that this list has been made public to us and that we have then informed those involved. A number of members of the Russian Duma have been included on the EU list, but this has to do with the legislation on illegal annexation of Crimea. All persons on the EU list may make their views known to the Council and appeal to the European Court if they so wish. In some cases, it does. There is, however, a difference between the sanctions we have imposed and the reaction of the Russian Federation. However, let there be no misunderstanding. The answer is, of course, that this is actually a tit for tat, but that has not brought us any further. It hasn't come to light on that list yet. I regret that. I thought it was important to raise this in a firm way. I don't think I should have called the ambassador back. I have a different view of that. Ambassadors must function properly when it is difficult. That's what they were hired for. Not only if relations are good, but also if relations are bad, you need an ambassador, who also has to do all kinds of other things. I will be speaking later on about human rights policy. Is there room for organizations on the ground? We do not have an overall economic boycott of Russia. We therefore have an economic relationship with that country. I'll come back to that later. It is not that an ambassador should always be recalled when it is difficult. Europe has taken a very strong position. I appreciate what Mr Bontes has said. I support the criticism of the Chamber and of the President of the Chamber regarding the incorrectness of this decision. It is highly questionable that a number of members of this Chamber do not have the right to appeal in a lawful manner. It should be obvious why you can't come. You should know something to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u122	I agree with the position on the Ambassador. Except for very special circumstances, countries must always try to stay in conversation. Parliamentarians, people representing the people should also be able to continue to talk in the assemblies where they meet, for example the NATO Assembly, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, when the situation is far from ideal. Yet, for the sake of the views of Russian parliamentarians, Europe has considered imposing a travel restriction on these parliamentarians. In that sense, I believe that there is indeed an agreement between the imposition of travel restrictions on Dutch parliamentarians and European parliamentarians and the travel restrictions on Russian parliamentarians. Why doesn't the Minister see that agreement? He saw the desirability of ambassadors being able to do their work, but not of parliamentarians being able to do their job. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u123	I agree with you that, in general, this is not the first remedy you are looking for. Communication is important. That applies to the whole of world politics. At the moment when it's very difficult and everyone's yelling at each other, you have to keep the tires open as much as possible. As you know and as you put forward in a lot of dossiers, there are limits to that. That's not always the case. Sometimes you have to make another decision. I have no idea how your various assemblies function in that. It is not up to the government, but to the assemblers themselves, whether or not they think members of the Duma should be part of it. You know I am in favour of the NATO Council meeting with the Russian Federation. On this point, I belong to a minority in NATO, but I believe that, precisely because of the difficult developments in military relations and risks, it is important to talk there. That's what we did during the Cold War. These are persons who have made it possible for an illegal act to be carried out by the Russian Federation, namely the annexation of Crimea. Since that is a serious restriction of international law, it is simply a country cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock cock One can appeal against that. Parliamentarians are not excluded from that list. They're not holy people who shouldn't be on a list.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u124	So we are going on the path that the Minister should have found it acceptable in the same vein if Dutch parliamentarians were to be on the list of parliamentarians who should be boycotted because they have supported the illegal invasion of Iraq. He was a parliamentarians himself at the time. That's a similar case. It was illegal and a violation of international law, although it was not established until later. If we go down that road, it will be very quiet and quiet in the discussions of parliamentarians, who, apart from the positions of their own government, have to discuss these issues with each other. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u125	No, I don't share that for the reason I just mentioned. It's like comparing apples to pears. This is true for Duma MPs, who have voted in favour of legislation to facilitate the illegal annexation of Crimea. That is a very serious matter. They may appeal against that decision. I really think that is something other than a Dutch decision. Mr Lavrov agrees with you. You think it's tit for tat, but I really don't see it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u126	There's one thing that makes me a little curious. These are some of the members of the Russian Duma who voted in favour of legislation. That legislation must have been passed there. I think the Duma is made up of quite a few members. It must have been at least 51%, but it may have been 98%. Can the Minister explain what the specifics of these people are? Surely that should be a special issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u127	I don't have all the information on this, but it's obviously not the only reason. It is one element of the reasoning behind these sanctions. It has been well thought out and one can appeal against it. They are people who are more involved in illegal annexation and who are also members of the Duma. It's certainly not the only reason. The question has been asked whether that water separation matters. I will come back to the precise points. You should never claim anything. I am not in favour of us having to make a claim on that. It is an extremely risky situation for the world and also for Europe. I think everyone wonders every day how best to try to de-escalate the situation without being naive. We are at the forefront when it comes to the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, the exercises or the practical and operational support of allies. We have a strong position on these sanctions. I will come back to the precise content of this. The Netherlands is known to have a clear line on this in Europe. With regard to the entry ban, I have said what the position of the Netherlands is. The Netherlands was at the forefront of this issue when it comes to relations with the Russian Federation. I will come to the point of strategic communication later. If there is such a problem with infotainment, with propaganda, can you put an alternative to it without going into counterpropaganda yourself? It is precisely the Netherlands that is leading the way to view this. Human rights have been on the agenda a lot in the last week, but I have not heard much about them now. The problem with human rights is, of course, at the heart of what is going on there. Mr Grashoff has rightly raised this point. That's what the ambassador's gonna have to do. He must ensure that, within these difficult NGO legislation, we still create opportunities to do so. I will mention a few examples later. It also means that it is not a business as usual in the way we deal with all kinds of cooperation bodies with Russia. The Chamber hasn't seen any of my colleagues go to Moscow. There have also been no trade delegations to Moscow. It has consequences for the way in which we set up economic committees. That doesn't mean we want a boycott. Let me make that clear. We are not talking about a boycott of Russia. We are talking here about the fact that it is not business as usual. I really think it's important to name that. Let me start with human rights. This is another law that has been added, so next to the old one we already knew. The law was passed in May. On this basis, foreign and international non-governmental organisations in the Russian Federation may be declared undesirable. On February 27, Boris Nemtsov was murdered. It's still unclear what the investigation into that murder resulted in and who committed the murder. This has, of course, further strengthened the feeling of intimidation among people who are indifferent, including those from the opposition. I therefore think it is important that we also raise this issue in Moscow, especially now that it is so urgently needed. That was indeed the element of the strong conversations. This does not mean that we have not talked at all about a number of important elements which Mr Knops also raises, for example the situation in Libya. We are working on a UN Security Council resolution. I refer, for example, to the fight against terror. I also believe that the Russian Federation has an interest in ensuring that this fight is done in a good way. I'm talking about "a good way." As far as we are concerned, that also means: according to the international rules of law. I also mention the conflict in Syria, where a different constellation is slowly but surely emerging. We will probably talk about this in more detail next week. It is important to discuss this with the Russian Federation as well. He's a member of the Security Council. That has nothing to do with soft or hard, but we have to make sure that it doesn't happen which is so beautiful in English called "linkage." And then you say, because we actually want something else, we don't go into the problems that exist at our eastern borders so seriously anymore. I think that is very important. I have asked a number of questions about freedom of the media. They were also discussed in Moscow. It was about that tighter direction on the media. I honestly recognise that there is a dilemma in this area when it comes to sanctions. Of course, that could increase the enemy image of the West. I think Mr Van Bommel made a comment on this. It can stir up nationalistic feelings. A very weak economic base and a lack of diversification of the Russian economy can therefore easily be shifted to the West. This is, of course, always about the struggle for the image and the narratives. That is why I think it is important for the Netherlands, especially at this time, to look at how we can promote the exchange and dissemination of Russian-language news, how we can promote the development and availability of Russian-language programmes and how we can set up a multimedia distribution platform. There are all kinds of possibilities to make sure that there are other sounds without going into counterpropaganda. Do I have the illusion that it'll all change tomorrow? No. Is it important that we do it? I think that's for sure. That is what we are doing with the European colleagues. I would like to make a few comments which relate to the situation in Minsk II and what that actually means for the sanctions. In my opinion, these sanctions were rightly rolled over with a hammer stroke last Monday, so to speak. This has been done because of the fact that, of course, everyone sees that these sanctions have not yet produced what they should yield, namely a direct change in behaviour through full compliance with Minsk II. Does this also mean that sanctions are not effective? I think that's far too premature. I think they are indeed effective. Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Ten Broeke have noted that at present they do limit the margins of the Russians' behaviour. In my talks with the Russian Federation, it is also really about serious issues such as why we are looking at each other like this, regardless of any naivety. After all, there are, of course, enemy images emerging, there are risks of escalation and there are narratives that are blaming the Russians for everything that is happening in eastern Ukraine and vice versa. I don't want to turn that into a mirrored situation. In other words, there is one who has indeed violated international law and one who has not done so. But it's important to keep that conversation going. Look at the current security image. After the heavy fighting at the beginning of this month around Marjinka, which we discussed, and a subsequent short-term return to the slightly lower fighting intensity from March to May, the situation has been strengthened and aggravated over the past ten days. It is always in the same regions: in Donetsk, with varying conflict intensity in Luhansk and pressure on Marioepol. On both sides of the contact line heavy weapons are removed from the depots and moved towards the front. That makes the situation unpredictable and dangerous. That is why there has been an urgent meeting of the so-called Normandy-Format. This is how it works a bit with sanctions and behavioural changes; let me add that. When there are agreements in Minsk, it never happens overnight. Four working groups are currently operating in Ukraine. They're functioning moderately. When you negotiate in working groups about peace, elections or economics, power is exercised on the ground. That's true in every conflict situation. I do not want to approve of that, quite the contrary. That is why we want to continue with the sanctions. We also see the co-responsibility of the Russian Federation. We see that the green males continue and that the support continues. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. That is different from the fact that we are now predicting that a strategic change in the situation would suddenly occur. I'm not ruling anything out, by the way, but that's not what I'm expecting right now. Rather, we see a complicated game, including between the separatists, who are divided among themselves. There is a great struggle in Ukraine for reform. It is an extremely complex situation on both sides. Moreover, I can say without any doubt that the most serious violations of Minsk are particularly committed on the separatist side, but this does not mean that this is not the case on the other side. I therefore think that the policy is the right one in terms of measure. We are going on and we are not going to lighten the situation now, despite the fact that there are four working groups. We see on the ground that there are all kinds of risky movements. The core for the peacemakers who are still there in the world and you will also have to keep it next to the fist and the reinforcement is to do two things in Ukraine. First of all, they have to make sure that the opportunity doesn't make the thief. I will come back to that in a moment when I answer the questions about economic reform. I'm not optimistic about that, but I'm not as pessimistic as a lot of people you hear sometimes. I believe that the current government is taking very courageous decisions on reform on a number of points, coming from a very negative growth economy. This situation is rather dramatic, both humanitarian and social as well as in terms of work. The oligarchy has ruled there for years. It's pretty complicated to knock that over. We have to look at that without being naive. That is what we are doing with the IMF and the World Bank, where we happen to be almost saying, because we did not know that in the past, of course, we were not representing Ukraine. I would like to make a mixed positive assessment of this. It's not a rosy picture; it's not going to be Denmark tomorrow. However, in the struggle of oligarchs, of recovery, a number of spokesmen have mentioned a number of ministers who do have a will to reform, which gets serious effect in policy. That's essential. I think that further weakening of the western side of Ukraine, let me just say, is the biggest risk to Ukraine. Then the opportunity makes the thief and the destabilization continues automatically. So that's point one. The second point concerns this working group. There's a huge battle going on over that. Paradoxically, the discussions on security are the most positive. In any case, we are told that they are in a constructive atmosphere. The suggestions of demilitarisation of the town of Shirokine have probably come across the Chamber; it is now a kind of strategic place throughout this game and the withdrawal of heavy weapons of various types, were overtaken by the deteriorating situation on the ground. This is what Normandy's diplomatic initiative focused on this week. The political working group should focus on the question: what is the future of Ukraine? That's what it's all about in the core. The essence is that we can never accept any violation of Ukraine's territorial integrity. I don't think anyone can accept that. That political working group must now ensure that the political processes take place, such as local elections for the representative of the Donbass region. That's what I think is the hardest assignment right now. We must also support the OSCE in this. However, you must also ensure diplomatically, in the direction of the various partners, that both sides do their homework there. The Ukrainian Parliament is talking about electoral procedures which should be more favourable to one party or another elsewhere in the country. In Ukrainian politics, you see quite a few differences in support for the various government parties. Fortunately, the electoral law was adopted at first reading, but it is very doubtful to reach agreement on the modalities of the elections in the Dombass region. I therefore believe that this is the first task. There is a great risk in the humanitarian field. Many speakers have said something about this. There is currently a blockade of the Ukrainian Government in the area of pensions and social security. This has led to a large number of displaced persons. It is a truly dramatic humanitarian situation. That is, of course, not good, because it actually gives you a further separation between those two sides, also economically. On the Ukrainian side, there is another argument: is that money going to those people now, or is it going to the separatist regimes? That is the third important political element of that working group. The last element is economic. This has to do with the restoration of the banking system, infrastructure such as bridges, and the investment climate. Of course, the Netherlands is actively involved in all these matters. We are also going to see if we can give some more active support in those working groups, if that is what we want. Now that choices have to be made, you can see that differences of opinion are emerging both within the government and among the separatists. In that sense, as far as I am concerned, the political process is fragile, but not dead. That's almost always the case in situations like this. It does mean that you have to keep pressure on the boiler, because otherwise you will of course not get any progress. We shouldn't be naive about that. That is why I am in favour of extending these sanctions. Is the picture black or red? I mean black in the sense of negative and red in the sense of positive. It is certainly more black than red, but I think that the jointness of pressure, the strengthening of the OSCE, the Normandy Initiative and the combined strategy are the best ways to move forward now. I come to a number of points relating to security policy in the broad sense. I said something about the exercises, the strengthening of Article 5 of NATO and elements related to sanctions. It is absolutely right that President Putin's statements and other references to the use of nuclear weapons are not conducive to mutual trust. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. It is in a very tense situation, at least, let me put it this way, and I would still say that it is not sensible to make those statements. The Secretary-General of NATO has also made this clear. I think he was right when he said that Putin's statements are still gun-scattered and that these are unjustified, destabilising and dangerous remarks. We take that signal seriously, of course, but let us also look each other in the eye. NATO has a wide range of means to defend the Convention Area. That didn't just go away or anything like that. At the moment we are looking for it mainly in strengthening our conventional means, as agreed in Wales. Arms supplies to Ukraine are not on the agenda for the Netherlands, as I said earlier. The Dutch starting point is that Ukraine has the right to defend territorial integrity. Like the German Chancellor and many others, I am convinced that it is not wise to do so, because of the strategic military relations and a number of geographical advantages on the side of the Russian Federation. I do not rule out the fact that other countries are doing so, but as far as is known, none of the 28 NATO members of the Alliance are supplying lethargy weapons to Ukraine. There will be a debate on this in the United States. I was in the United States not long ago. That is also part of the election debate. At least the White House still hasn't decided on it. The United States' plans for the deployment of military equipment on the territory of some Central and Eastern European countries are not yet fully clear. It seems to be four bilateral agreements, namely with three Baltic States and with Romania. There may also be an agreement with Poland. These are possible agreements on the use of and access to equipment. Then it's about tanks and other vehicles. That is also in line with the Wales agreements. It is a matter of equipment available to American troops on a rotational basis. I believe that this commitment by the United States to the security of Europe is very important. Nor do I see any violation of the NATO-Russia Founding Act, because it is not about a permanent base or the stationing of a fundamental number of combat units. From contacts with the US government, the Dutch government is not aware of the placement of new nuclear weapons in Europe. I don't recognize the coverage in the media about that at all. We also agreed with the Russian Federation on nuclear weapons in the 1990s. There are no intentions, for example, to place nuclear weapons on the territory of the new Member States. Putin's announcement of 40 new nuclear weapons is negative. It's old news, by the way. Part of it is a modernisation programme that has been in existence for some time. It's bad news. There is an element of gun clatter on both sides, but that certainly applies to the Russian Federation, which makes all kinds of statements that are certainly negative for the security situation. I said earlier that the Netherlands does not share the idea that escalation with more sanctions, more weapons, more this or that, will automatically improve the situation. But we're not naive either. That is why we are not going to sit on the soft side when it comes to Article 5 of NATO or the stabilisation of Ukraine. I think this is important. It is about a balance; not to sit in the middle, but to deal with this tense situation as wisely as possible. I think that this is a problem that concerns the whole of Europe. I believe that even in such a situation the Dutch Government should continue to work on matters such as non-proliferation and conventional arms control. Then I come to the economic links between the Netherlands and the Russian Federation. The Russian people are not an enemy of the Netherlands. It's the same continent. It is not the Dutch government's policy to squeeze interdependence in all kinds of ways, because it also creates the opportunity to move forward, but we do have a strong sanction package, which is precisely aimed at changing behaviour on a number of points that we consider essential. We've been asked about the trade. Of course it bites. It is an illusion to think that the Netherlands now benefits, can expand business with Russia or pretend it is business as usual. A strong sanction package does indeed have a serious impact on the Netherlands and Dutch companies. That is what is peculiar to the fact that we consider this situation to be so serious. The violation of the rules of the game, of security, of territorial integrity, is so great that we cannot have business as usual. You can see that in the trade figures. In 2013 and 2014, Dutch exports of goods decreased by 8%. Imports of goods have been reduced by 11.4%. This is very serious for a number of sectors. So it doesn't apply: we're going to trade, because we don't have any principles. The opposite is true. Remember that the Russian Federation after the United States and China is the main export market for the Netherlands outside the European Union. Yet we have said that it is not a business as usual. I have just told you that working groups on energy, agriculture, innovation and transport, health missions and transport missions are working completely differently than they used to. I am not happy to look at it, but it is the consequence of the policy. Of course, we are also looking very closely at export licences. These are requested from the Central Import and Export Service. This department appreciates the applications and, in designated cases, submits them to my Ministry for evaluation. We are looking very closely at this licensing requirement. That is an essential point. Questions have also been asked about a number of specific dossiers. I'll start with the Shell deal with Gazprom about including participation in...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u128	Before we do that, I shall first give the floor to Mr Bontes, because he has a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u129	I would like to return to the nuclear weapons of the United States in the Dutch field and the Iskander missiles of the Russians. I have here an article by the Volkskrant which states that the Dutch Government has asked Washington for clarification on the possible placement of cruise missiles in Europe. The Minister didn't actually say anything about this. What's the status?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u130	With all due respect, also for important media information, but I will give you the information from the Dutch government. I am not aware of any plan for the installation of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe by the United States. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u131	So the Dutch Government has not asked Washington to clarify that situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u132	No, we did not ask for clarification on the article in the newspaper, because we were not surprised. We always share information with the ambassador in the United States. There's daily contact with the Pentagon and the Department of State on these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u133	If it wasn't clarification, then what was it? Then what did happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u134	I hear that we have obviously asked for clarification. It could have been in the Volkskrant. Someone might have asked my ministry a question. I'll tell you exactly what my information is about this. If you want to call that "clearing up," that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u135	I hear the Minister say very clearly that sanctions serve a purpose. These sanctions are useful and will remain in place for the time being. This has consequences, including for the Dutch economy, but we must stand by those principles. In this light, I ask the Minister to reflect on what the foreman of VNO-NCW recently said, namely that the MH17 was an incident and that those sanctions against Russia should be reduced as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u136	I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u137	How does he see the industry's support for the sanctions that we consider so important politically and in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u138	I don't think that statement is appropriate. The MH17 is not an incident and it is not a business as usual with the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u139	Thank you, my group and I fully share that view. At the same time, we must also note that this is not just an opinion of a random passerby, but an opinion of a foreman representing a lot of employers in the Netherlands. He's behind important companies. In what way does the cabinet, with the foreman of VNO-NCW, enter into discussion to maintain the support for these important sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u140	I read a statement from the president of VNO-NCW. My ministry and I didn't get those indications. It's a statement he made and I find inappropriate. I don't need much debate for that. I would add that a lot of people in the Netherlands really suffer from these sanctions. That is in no way a defence or rationalization, but the Chamber must realize that. It is very easy to talk here in Parliament, but this is an element. It's a real trade-off. I just said that we are an important trading partner of Russia. Let there be no misunderstanding about the position of the Dutch cabinet: we support these sanctions and they are being implemented. The cabinet's position on Shell's deal with Gazprom has been questioned. I've taken note of those three similarities. It is a commercial declaration of intent between companies. The Dutch government does not engage in commercial considerations of private parties. If permits are needed to carry out the Nord Stream deal, I think that's the core; let's be clear about it and ask for it by the appropriate means, after which, of course, a thorough review can take place. That's how it works in the Dutch rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u141	The statements made by Mr De Boer were inappropriate. It is good that the Minister indicates this; I very much agree with him, but they do have a bit of a background. I think that the Minister is making a somewhat circumstantial move on this point. Yes, we are a trading partner, but the trade relationship that the Netherlands has with Russia is a very specific one. In fact, most of it is about the export of fuels. Fuel is Russia's big export goods. Only exports of Russian energy carriers such as oil and gas have been worth more than EUR 20 billion a year. The involvement of Russian investors is also significant. The Russians are 50% shareholder of drilling platforms in the North Sea. There's a huge intertwinedness and I don't like that intertwinedness. I have a feeling the Minister is going around it a little lightly. I think we have a big problem here. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u142	I would like to go into it, but your claim that I'm going around it lightly is far from my point of view. I do not think that is the case. I have appointed a number of cases and I would like to discuss them further in the light of the questions I have been asked. We live in a world in which trade and investment are a matter of concern to citizens worldwide. This always happens under certain conditions, such as corporate social responsibility and ensuring that you do not become dependent on autocratic regimes. I shall come back to that point later on in connection with energy. For the sake of clarity, I do not propose an economic boycott of the Russian people. We have imposed sanctions that are very painful for certain parts of the Russian economy. We have formulated them together in Europe and they go very far. I want them to be maintained, and I want us to be very precise about that. That does not mean that I consider the Russian boycott of, for example, all kinds of food production to be a good thing. The intertwinedness within the international economy is there. That's a fact that everyone has to live with. The question now is what is happening in practice. This applies in particular to a number of points that have been mentioned here and to a number of questions that have been put to me. I would like to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u143	The Minister is right to nuance it: it is a question of sanctions, not an overall boycott or a boycott directed at the Russian people. I totally agree with him on that. However, my question was about a very important branch of sport: relations in the energy market. I am particularly concerned about our imports, that is to say Russian energy exports. It doesn't matter if we resell it. Energy policy is foreign policy, which has been discussed before in this debate. Can the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u144	Let me start by saying that energy policy is foreign policy. I think so, and so does Mr Kamp. That's point one. Secondly, it might be good to take a look at the facts. The Netherlands is very dependent on Russia's gas. The number is about 6%. It must be imagined that the figure for Europe as a whole is 30%. That is important when the Chamber talks about great intertwinedness, and so on. In the case of oil, the percentage is higher, namely 19. The European Union average is 40%. At least over the years you can see that the dependence on Russian gas is relatively low. I can give the figures to the Chamber sometime. I understand the questions, of course. I stand for what I said, just like Minister Kamp. We are in favour of reducing energy dependence. There are a number of ways we can do that. I would like to say a few words about that. Given that Russia is one of the world's largest gas producers, and since it borders on Europe, it is expected that Russian gas will be part of the energy mix for a long time to come. You can't change that overnight. I do not think so, and neither does Mr Kamp. As the Chamber says, there is indeed mutual dependence. We are indeed Russia's largest customer. I am talking about the European Union as a whole. The questions were about the Netherlands. I have already said that this share is relatively small. It might be good to keep an eye on the facts. Currently, gas from Russia accounts for around 25% of gas consumption in the European Union. For the Netherlands, the situation is completely different. I just mentioned the 5%. Moreover, we are currently exporting more gas than we import. That may also be important to say. The Netherlands is therefore not dependent on Russia at the moment. However, there are Member States of the European Union which import all their gas from Russia and which are therefore very dependent on Russia. I do not think it would be good, as it would not be good for the Netherlands, if we become too dependent on one provider, certainly not in the current geopolitical situation. This is why efforts are being made in the European Union to diversify sources, including renewable energy, suppliers and supply routes. To this end, the European energy security strategy has also been established and we are working towards a sustainable European Energy Union. The debate will indeed take place next week with Mr Kamp. So I'm not gonna do that here, but I just want to show you how important it is to be exactly in this. Dependency can be reduced and the Room can think differently about what the mix should be. I think we all agree on energy saving. I think we all agree on cogeneration. You need to bet on that if you want to be reduced dependent on, for example, the Russian Federation. I agree with that. Then we have the gas roundabout. This can also be helpful. That is the third point. If there is one thing the Netherlands is committed to, it is that: reducing dependence. I come to the Energy Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, of course, also has to do with energy. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. It's even one of the priorities we have. That is precisely because there is a foreign-political and geopolitical side to it. In the Energy Union, for example, we are tackling that situations with Gazprom that make demands on the way in which energy transit is organised through Europe lead to unfair relations. The Chamber knows the discussion we're having right now. This week, at the Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels, I again discussed how we can prevent the Russian Federation from deciding exactly how the gas is going to go. The Chamber knows as well as I do that we cannot reduce it overnight. Of course, that's a cycle. It's a market. There is also an LNG market. Prices change and there can also be a cycle in which you just become slightly more dependent on Russian gas, to reduce that dependency in the longer term. The objective of energy diplomacy is to reduce dependence. I'd really like to make a big deal out of that. As Foreign Ministers, we held a strategic discussion on this very point on Monday, partly on the initiative of the Netherlands. It is not healthy to depend on one relatively large provider. That is why we have said that we are going to carry out this energy diplomacy. It's not that easy. This is still independent of energy saving, cogeneration and the price of LNG. People know how important prices are. Before we know it, we're importing polluting energy from the United States. It is about the environment and geopolitics. It is a policy that we are shaping together and in which, for example, Algeria and East Africa play a role. But we must also make no mistake about it. Everyone will recognise that in the following years, even if we use the most optimistic scenario with regard to energy saving, cogeneration and so on, we will remain dependent on a number of other countries. And with those other countries, you all have problems. I understand that, too. Yeah, I got it, too. We have talked here about the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and so on. I want to make it very clear to the Chamber that there is no difference of opinion in the cabinet. We are working together to shape this energy change in the Netherlands. This includes foreign policy and geopolitics. This includes reducing the dependence of some suppliers. And that includes Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u145	This is actually all good to hear. We also saw some press releases from the Ministry earlier this week about the apparently very substantive and in-depth discussion that the Minister had in Brussels. It would be a good thing if we were to be fully informed in the report of the IRS. Then perhaps we can come back to that at a later date. I would like to return to the Dutch position. The Minister is right to say that we are very dependent on our own gas supply. But he mentioned the gas roundabout. We have already invested EUR 10 billion in this. Those are not just matters such as the Nord Stream, they are not just commercial considerations and decisions, they are decisions that affect us. They're affecting our investments. We are also directly involved in this through state-owned companies such as the Gasunie. The ex post review of permits is good. This must be done according to European sanctions. But should you not be more proactive as a Dutch government with such a large company as Shell and such a big deal as that made with Gazprom last week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u146	First of all, I will deal with the first part of the question, including the gas roundabout and the like. I do have to keep my own responsibilities under review. It's not my first responsibility. The Chamber will discuss this with Mr Kamp. What matters is that we are all working on it. The discussion about Groningen has been brought in. He's going to feed the room next week. Of course, everyone understands that you can't say from one day to the next that nothing can come from Russia. Even because of prices, we have a situation in which this is the case. That's because of a Dutch need. The important thing is that you together bring about a change of that mix and a reduction of exclusive dependencies. That's point one. Then I'll talk about it from the relatively low level of the Netherlands. We cannot guarantee that. We cannot say with certainty that tomorrow it is not a step higher and the next day it is a step lower. But the trend must of course be made clear. The second is the energy diplomacy which is serious. On this point, I am prepared and it is my duty to inform the Chamber of what has happened in energy diplomacy and the initiative we have taken in the Foreign Affairs Council. I also know that the Chamber of Minister Kamp will soon receive a letter on this whole issue. There are, of course, geopolitical aspects to this. Mr Servaes has asked a second question. Of course, we have proactive conversations with Shell. That goes without saying. I think we also have a very good relationship to ensure that the limits are absolutely clear in the light of sanctions legislation. This means that it will also have to be clear from this deal that the sanctions legislation is being applied and followed exactly. That is the crux of the matter. The Chamber also did not see any government servants in Saint Petersburg. We'd have been there before. The government is involved in all kinds of ways in the non-business as usual. But again, I can't intervene other than under the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u147	I am indeed pleased to hear that representatives of the Dutch State were not personally present. I am also pleased to hear from the Minister that we do have a role to play in the content, in consultations, to check that there is no cross-reference. Of course, part of the Phase 3 sanctions is that European companies are not allowed to export technology and production matters to and share with the Russians. It does not need to be now and it can also be through the Minister for Economic Affairs, but I would like to be informed about how these developments are explained. Let me add one more element. What struck me in St Petersburg was that besides Shell there were two other European energy companies at the table, including Eon, but not American. Surely the Minister agrees with me that Europe and America should work in the same direction? We should not have European companies stretching the scope within these sanctions a little more than the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u148	I think it's two different things. I really think that the energy situation in the United States is a completely different one. They are becoming more and more energy independent. They're in a very different phase. We really wish we were already there. I agree with you. We are talking about this proactively. That is what we have done about other projects. We will then indicate what the sanction legislation is. We're talking about the spirit and the letter of the law, but I can't move on. I do not want that either, because we live in the rule of law and we do not have a boycott.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u149	Minister Koenders says that the aim is to reduce our dependence. When he says 'we are not dependent on Russia at the moment', is it all the more painful that Minister Kamp in Nieuwsuur says: we are going to import more gas from Russia? That doesn't match his vision, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u150	I listened very carefully to Mr Kamp. I understand that this has suddenly become an issue, because it has become an issue in the newspaper. I really don't see the difference of opinion. We have the situation in Groningen, but let us talk about it next week. It has to be compensated. It may well have to come from Russia in the short term. I don't know; I can't judge that. The same applies to the LNG prices. The point is that we have a common position on geopolitics and dependence. There is no difference of opinion on this, not even on sanctions legislation. Sometimes, of course, it is quite enjoyable to seek a difference of opinion in a cabinet, but there really isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u151	Then we come to another point, because the Minister says: we are not dependent. Then he says: we have made the choice with regard to Groningen....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That suggests that dependency...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u152	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u153	I'll read back what you did say later. Let me put the question in this way, in the light of the letter that Minister Kamp is about to send, with the geopolitical component in it. What is the government going to do to reduce Russia's dependence? I think that's the crucial question. We lost a year. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats really does not want anything, as its spokesman has just said. But what does the cabinet want to do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u154	I have already made this clear to you at the beginning: energy saving, cogeneration, the gas roundabout, the Energy Union, energy diplomacy, are active against a number of others, precisely in order to reduce their dependence. That's really an agenda. You cannot be satisfied with it, but if you say 'it is nothing', I say: the Dutch Government has a clear agenda on this point, because we are very aware of the fact that this dependency is a problem. You're not the only one who thinks so. We all think so, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u155	It can hardly be an agenda, because the VVD agrees. So it can't be much. There was talk here today about camp-Knights and camp-Kamp. I believe that in the short term, because of the situation with the gas in Groningen, we have a camp that does not exclude the use of Russian gas, and that Koenders is in the Camp camp. In the longer term, we have diplomacy that should lead us to become more independent from states like Russia. There's Camp again in Koenders' camp. Can the Minister help me, and especially Mr Servaes, who has chosen the camp of Koenders, and tell me whether he is in the camp of Camp?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u156	I'm not going into a supposed contradiction. I am speaking on behalf of the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u157	Then I note that there is no contradiction and that Minister Koenders clearly says that we have Russian gas and do not renounce it. We are not very dependent, 5% about, and there is no way that we will have to continue to use Russian gas, now and in the future, and that even occasional increases can take place because of the situation in which the Netherlands has come to live. Isn't that something we can establish here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u158	I leave that interpretation entirely to Mr Ten Broeke. I have just indicated the position of the cabinet. In my view, this is absolutely clear: we do not like being dependent on one or more suppliers, a small group of suppliers, we are in the process of diversifying and we will inform the Chamber about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u159	Go on!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u160	Then I come to a number of points relating to bilateral relations. I would like to comment on the situation in Crimea, which is not insignificant. Let me also briefly dwell on Crimea from this observation, because I think that is essential. The conflict has concentrated mainly in eastern Ukraine, in the Oblast, Donetsk and Lugansk, but we have not forgotten the illegal annexation of Crimea. That is why this policy on sanctions is so important. The Netherlands will continue to work for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. The sanction package introduced by the European Union following the illegal annexation of Crimea is independent of the Eastern Ukraine package and will be maintained as long as the situation on the peninsula does not change. I would also like to say something about human rights. Since the occupation by de facto Russian authorities, it has deteriorated considerably. In particular, freedom of expression, the media landscape, the cultural rights of Crimea and the Tartar minority have been further restricted. The Netherlands has raised this situation in the Human Rights Council and we will, of course, continue to follow that point very closely. I think I have answered the questions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u161	This has put an end to the government's first term. Is there a need for a second term? I see agreement nodding and then we go straight to the second term. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u162	Mr. Chairman. It's a special night. Mr Van Bommel draws parliamentarians of the Duma in the same way as parliamentarians in the House of Representatives, while those of the Duma have made real legislation that has made annexation possible. Next, Mr Ten Broeke wants to continue trading with Russia at all costs and Mr De Roon, who is not present at the moment, is in his stomach with that strange group in the European Parliament. That's my quick conclusion. I shall table a motion on the cruise missiles, because the answer remained vague. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the United States is considering placing new cruise missiles in Europe following Russian plans to station Iskander missiles near the Polish border;]] [[calls on the Government not to oppose the placing of new US cruise missiles on European territory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-V-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u163	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his first-term reply. Today it was about many things, including a water separation moment, last summer, in the relationship between the Netherlands and Russia, a moment that really should make a difference. Today was actually another water separation moment in the sense that there were parties who really want to give meaning to that water separation moment. They recognize that energy policy is indeed a foreign policy and want to link it with the measures that go with it. I refer to the extension of the sustainability objectives, and I mention further energy savings through, for example, insulation and diversification of our energy sources. Other parties say: energy policy may be foreign policy, but we do nothing; we cripple the cabinet and blame the other parties for doing nothing or wanting nothing. That's what I'm worried about. I am therefore concerned about the cabinet. Minister Koenders says: we do have a strategy. He mentioned the energy agreement, the Energy Union and energy saving. But I want to tell him something. The cabinet started with 16% renewable energy as its objective. In the energy agreement it was 14% and now it is calculated that it is a maximum of 13%. The Minister mentions energy saving, but it has already been calculated that the measures contained in the agreement will not achieve the desired energy savings in any way. On that point, therefore, I say that the cabinet has for a year failed to reduce existing dependence and to make real progress, both at national and at European level. I hope that in the geopolitical letter to the Chamber next week, Minister Kamp will address these missed opportunities and what this cabinet is going to do to give them a real boost and to really do something about the dependency we still have, especially now that we are going to reduce the production of Groningen gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u164	Mr. Chairman. I heard the Minister speak in his term of office about de-escalating. I have paid a great deal of attention to this in my contribution, but I have not heard any concrete steps that would lead to de-escalation, including on our part. I say "also" with emphasis. The Minister referred to the extension of sanctions related to Crimea as long as there was no change in behaviour. He did not talk about the imposition of sanctions, and I am pleased that this debate is coming back to Europe every time, possibly with the risk of division in Europe. We certainly do not want that, because we need to keep the front on the European side closed when it comes to sanctions against Russia. I am therefore pleased, although I keep saying that in the long term we may also have to take into account the sanctions that we now have, if we can achieve minor behavioural changes in the right direction. However, that is future music and not the issue at present. I come to the restriction on travel for parliamentarians. Yes, I have indeed compared parliamentarians from Russia and parliamentarians from the Netherlands and Europe. Sanctions have been imposed against them, which are tantamount to travel restrictions which mean that they are no longer able to enter into the debate with each other. I found, I find and I continue to think that this is not a good thing. The reasons are different, I can see that, but I do not think it is a good thing if parliamentarians are made impossible to travel, so that they can no longer have a debate with each other. This does not contribute to the rapprochement needed to find solutions to difficult conflicts. Finally, I welcome the realism of the Foreign Minister in terms of gas, gas in Groningen and gas in Russia. For go explain it in Groningen, that for the sake of non-achievement of our energy objective, we ensure that we become energy-independent, that we save more, that we develop more renewable energy sources in the Netherlands, still need to drill more into Groningen, with all these requirements. That is what we are discussing. It will have to come from somewhere, because I think Ten Broeke's option of showering less, cooking less and eating less hot is the least attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u165	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answer in the first term. Although of course we already knew, it is good to hear from the government once again that there is no question of a total boycott of Russia. It concerns a number of sanctions, which we must try to implement and enforce as well as possible until the desired change in behaviour occurs. For the PVV, however, it is important for the Netherlands, as much as possible, to maintain links with Russia, especially in the economic field. The Minister wrote in his letter of 15 May that many Dutch entrepreneurs want to remain active in Russia. I would also like to see that happen. However, the question is to what extent it is still sustainable at the moment, because it is not easy. Many foreign companies have recently had to close down their activities in Russia. So the Dutch entrepreneurs in Russia may have the will to stay active in Russia, but can they? Is the Minister prepared to support them wherever possible? The Minister's letter actually gives me the impression that it is not. I get the impression that the Minister really wants to leave those entrepreneurs to their fate. He wrote in his letter that the focus of public economic activity will be less on trade promotion and economic cooperation. I'm sorry about that. The PVV believes that these activities should be continued and even intensified where possible. We also have no objection in principle to the supply of Russian gas to the Netherlands. We would object to high dependence on our energy from any country. So I fully agree with what the Minister has said on this point. That is what I want to say at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u166	Mr. Chairman. Energy policy is foreign policy. This has become clear throughout this debate. I'm glad the Minister admits that as well. He pointed out that the aim was to reduce dependence and ultimately reduce dependence, especially in relation to Russia. That is a good thing and it cannot happen soon enough. At the same time, we must note that this urgency has been known for a long time. There are options in the Netherlands, but of course we must continue this debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs. However, the urgency still does not seem to turn to an urgency in domestic policy. If you want to become less dependent on abroad, you have to do something else inland. That is a debate that we will have to continue to have intensively with each other at another time. I hope, however, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will say the following to his colleague for Economic Affairs: this urgency, including from geopolitics and from energy policy, has now become so great that we cannot take any more time to weigh up all kinds of options and refer all kinds of options to the wastebasket. We have to go on: more wind, on land and at sea, more sun, more geothermal, more sun-pv. Mr Broeke is very much in agreement with that, I think. So we're gonna get to work on that. That's wise. The Minister also expressed concern about the human rights situation. I have a motion, which I hope he can see as policy support. I'll read you that motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the adoption of the "foreign agent law" in 2012 and the "law on unwanted organisations" in 2015 further restricts freedom of expression, organisation and freedom of assembly in Russia,]] [[noting that under the influence of these laws, several civil society organisations have already had to close their doors;]] [[Whereas with a stronger European signal to the Russian government, human rights organisations will be able to continue their work under increasingly difficult circumstances,]] [[calls on the Government, in a stronger European context, to abandon these recently adopted laws and to encourage the Russian Government to withdraw them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-V-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u167	Mr. Chairman. This debate, which was mainly about Russia, Ukraine, geopolitics and also geology, was, of course, also about colleagues who were denied access to Russia. That is what we all agree on: it cannot be done. This can't be fought. This has been done on false grounds and we are in solidarity with the Members who are affected. I hope that we all come to the conclusion that we are not going to Russia for any reason. Then there is geology and geopolitics, the camp-Knights and the camp-Kamp. However, they both turned out to be in box K. It looked like there was a camp Servaes, too. For a moment it seemed as if my colleague Servaes was still comfortable in the camp Koenders, now that Koenders has clearly indicated that he will follow his trail in the longer term but in the shorter term not to rule out what Mr Kamp said at Nieuwsuur last night. We don't have business as usual anymore. The question is whether we still have business à la Servaes. That's why I have a few questions for this minister. Does the Minister agree with Mr Servaes that Shell should not be talking to Gazprom? If he talks to Shell himself, have we not just maintained sanctions when it comes to dual-use technology? Does the Minister, like my colleague Servaes, consider that the current safeguards against tax advantages for Russian companies, for example, are insufficient? Does the Minister think that we should impose more sanctions against the Russian energy sector or is he satisfied with the current package? Does the Minister think that we should stop using Russian gas without alternatives, on which we depend for about 5%? Or should we work on energy independence? In the short term, in the absence of a realistic alternative, is it not possible to conclude that there must be diversification and therefore that Russian gas is part of that mix?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u168	I call Mr Servaes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u169	Mr. Chairman. For a moment, I had the impression that I would be better placed in VVD to answer the questions of the VVD group, but we are not going to do that. It was about the water separation moment today. No business as usual as the Minister confirms once again today loud and clear. It was good to hear that. Whatever camp anyone is in today, it is not Hans de Boer's camp, who tried to pretend that nothing had happened, in such an unpleasant way, if we can just continue with business as usual. I very much appreciated the Minister's words on this. As far as energy is concerned, I have put questions to the Minister on three aspects. The first concerns the efforts and discussions in Brussels earlier this week. I would like to thank him for his commitment to inform the Chamber in detail so that we can discuss this later. The Nord Stream project cannot be separated from the story of the gas roundabout, from its dependence. Dependency doesn't just have to do with the percentage of Russian gas you use here. It also has to do with energy policy and therefore with foreign policy. Permission tests, agreement, but as far as I'm concerned, it's wider. I would therefore ask the Minister to include precisely that element, the gas roundabout and everything related to it in the report that we will be receiving later from Minister Kamp, or perhaps even from the Ministers Kamp and Koenders together. We have today set out criteria, including less dependence on Russian gas. I have heard broad support for this. That's good. That is what we are going to test next week in the debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs, but more importantly: we are going to test it at the time when the prepared story is there. It is therefore not yet the end of this debate, but only an intermediate position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u170	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I have already said that our group supports the line of the Minister and the Cabinet on Russia. I repeat. I've witnessed muscle. In my opinion, not the muscles in the trits that Minister Koenders displayed, but muscle balls between two coalition parties, who wanted to convince each other in front of the Chamber to sit in one camp or another. I don't think the problem is that big. The debate on energy policy has not produced much, because energy policy has been foreign policy for a long time. It is not something we can only conclude on the basis of this debate. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Als wij energie nodig hebben, kunnen wij niet anders dan die importeren, ook uit Rusland, zolang wij geen alternatieven hebben.]] Everyone agrees that we must strive for energy independence. So far there's nothing new under the sun. I've asked questions about the prosecution of the MH17. I also said something about the implementation of the Van der Staaij motion. I can imagine that the Minister does not want to respond to the latter, because he has done so before, but perhaps it would be a good idea to deal with the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u171	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. The Minister indicated that he could respond directly to the motions tabled and answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u172	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for the questions that have been put and the comments that have been made in the second period. I'll start with the point of de-escalation. I do think that there is work to be done, including for the Dutch Government. It is indeed a difficult balance if you also show muscle and drive heavily to the wind when it comes to NATO Article 5. A number of proposals have been made from the Netherlands, for example with regard to the NATO-Russia Council. Not only could military contacts be extended beyond what is currently the case between Breedlove and Gerasimov, but I will also commit myself to formally calling together. I admit that there is not much success on this point, because there is a difference of opinion within NATO. We also adhere to the NATO-Russia Act in the sense of non-permanent deployment in Eastern Europe, in the Baltic States. I'm not for a tit for tat either. It's not like if one side has this type of weapon, we have to copy it exactly. We are not talking about increasing sanctions, but I do not want to rule out anything in advance. If something happens tomorrow that is going in a completely different direction, for example towards Moldova, I am in any case aware of that. However, it is not the government's policy to impose additional economic sanctions. I will answer Mr De Roon's question as follows. He's gone, but I'll answer the question anyway. It has to do with business as usual or not. If the Dutch interests give sufficient reason to continue the cooperation, this will be implemented soberly and functionally. For example, the Dutch government will continue to help to properly defend the interests of Dutch companies, but that is not the active policy we normally have with ministers and trade missions. It is about preventing companies from playing against each other, so that one way or another there is a level playing field or something. It's not a business as usual. That is why I say to Mr De Roon that I am not going to do so more actively. So there is also a water separation moment in that sense and there are certain consequences to that. We're not gonna change that now. Of course, we talk about this with our colleagues all the time. After all, you have to stick together in this policy too. But I say again, it's not a business as usual. I appreciate the importance of human rights as well. In particular, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has talked about this. I will be on Mr Grashoff's motion in a moment. I really see a few developments in this area that we have already seen, but which have really been intensified in the past period. I do not really have much more to add to what I said about energy policy. I told you, it's not business as usual. We have already made the necessary efforts in the past year. That's not a lost chance. We've been working on this for a while. I can say one thing: reducing energy dependence does not happen overnight. All the groups will support that. This is a very intensive policy. I'm working on it myself, with Algeria, with Africa and with other players. I agree with the Labour Party's group that Nord Stream is, of course, going wider. That also applies to South Stream. It is, of course, important for Russia's dependence to be reduced by that other side of the matter. So there are indeed broader aspects to it. I am just saying that with regard to sanctions policy, I have that instrument to see if it is possible. However, this kind of thing obviously also has broader elements. I'm not ruling anything out or in for Groningen. That's not my call at all. We can create all kinds of differences of opinion on this. They just don't exist. I can't judge that at all. It is clear, however, that we want to get rid of the dependence of gas on one or two feeders. We are already very little dependent on that. Of course, I can't determine that at any time and every week. It is a trend that needs to be made clear. Of course, Minister Kamp will look into this further. That also means, I assume, that when he comes with his letter, the elements of foreign policy were also taken into account. Here too, the government speaks with one voice. We are in complete agreement on that. I am glad that the MH17 has also been mentioned. That is an important point at the end of this evening. The Dutch Government is currently very active, also in the direction of China where I have recently been from Russia, but also from the United States, to ensure that there is a clear re-affirmation of those UN resolutions. Furthermore, in the context of the JIT, we look at the different options for prosecution. I cannot comment on this now, because it is also part of the negotiations with colleagues in the JIT countries. If this becomes clearer, the Chamber will of course also be informed. I'm coming up on the motions now. I would like to thank Mr Bontes once again for the debate on this subject. Once again, I tell him that the Dutch Government has taken this entry ban very seriously. I'm afraid I'm going to have to make his motion, in part no. 73, still dissuade. I'm really looking at that differently. Nor is there any consideration for the United States to place new cruise rockets in Europe. I cannot, therefore, reject it or be in favour of it either. I therefore advise against this motion. The second motion, in part No. 74, tabled by Mr Grashoff. I think that is a sympathetic motion which I see as supporting policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-25-tweedekamer-14.u173	We will be voting on the motions tabled next week. I don't know exactly at what time, but it's gonna happen next week at least.
