ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I was going to start my text by saying that anyone looking at the world in 2015 must make an effort to remain optimistic. That was before the weekend. Last Friday, another terrible, cowardly attack on innocent civilians took place in Paris. Our thoughts are with France, with our French friends and allies who have suffered unimaginable suffering. We wish them comfort. We wish them unity. We wish them perseverance. We wholeheartedly support the Prime Minister and the Cabinet in their offer to help France wherever we can. The General Financial Reviews are not trivial, but it may be a rather curious transition. Let me begin, however. I start my story far from home, because what happens far from home has such a huge impact close to home, especially when it comes to the economy, especially when it comes to the 21st century and especially when it comes to the Netherlands. Those looking at the world in 2015 must make efforts to remain optimistic. I told you just now. Whether or not this makes it difficult to remain optimistic about the global economy. Especially in recent months, the coverage has become more gloomy. See the IMF which indicated in October that the risk of what is called "a complete stagnation of the world economy" has increased considerably, while many thought before the summer, hoping that the world economy, and certainly the European economy, and certainly the Dutch economy, would finally have the leak. Fortunately, there are still many indicators that look good for the Netherlands. However, we will have to take into account at least the possibility that there will be worse economic weather than was thought before the summer. This raises the question to the Minister of Finance as to how he views the development of the world economy. Is the coverage too pessimistic, realistic or even too optimistic? And if any gloom, or at least any caution, is justified about the world economy, and if my comment on the dependence of the Netherlands on that world economy is justified, how vulnerable are we with a relatively festive budget, where there is a deficit at the end of the feast? With the developments of the past few months in mind, is there any reason to be more economical, more cautious than before the summer? I'm making the move from the world to Europe. On the eve of 2015 it seemed as if the euro had ended up in calmer waters, but those who look back on this year see an exhaustion blow with Greece where the euro has escaped large damage except for one hair. Those who look back also realise that the President of the Eurogroup has contributed to the stability of the euro in difficult circumstances. As far as we are concerned, this is a compliment. We are now a few months away. Can the Minister share with the First Chamber how the cabinet is currently assessing the vulnerability of the euro? How does it assess the relationship with Greece in particular, which, if I may say so, still resembles the conditional extension of a mutual loveless marriage? Anyone who looks at Europe will notice something else. A few months ago, Mr Draghi started buying up government bonds. Now there is a lot to say about Mr Draghi, but not that he is unnecessarily cautious. If he's talking about buying up, he means buying up. Then he doesn't think a little bit, but then he thinks a lot of things. More specifically, he thinks of EUR 60 billion per month. And he won't stop until he's well over 1 trillion euros. You must always be careful with those amounts, but that is a one with twelve zeros; roughly the value of four times the budget we are discussing here today. We are therefore talking about extreme amounts. So you might expect that when you make investments in this order of magnitude, the results are impressive. But there are two things that all concerned recognise. Firstly, there is hope, but there is no guarantee that this will help to drive the economy forward. Secondly, because of the large sums of money, there are also major risks associated with this approach. Of course, the ECB is independent. The Minister himself was quite right to point this out. It has to stay that way. But this operation has been going on for a number of months. We are a number of billions further investments. The interest rate was low, is low and, as it appears, interest rates remain low for the time being, with significant consequences for Dutch savers and with major consequences for Dutch pension funds. This raises the question of what the Minister of the Effectiveness of Draghi's policy thinks. What does he think of the risks to the euro, to the Dutch pension funds and to the Dutch taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u3	I'd like to know exactly where the CDA's in pain. Is it in the quantitative extension and its impact on interest rates or in the relationship between interest rates and the valuation of pension funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u4	These are both problems, but the first problem is mainly Draghi's problem. Mr Postema will agree with me that this operation is an ultimate medium, as the ECB itself said. In the run-up to this debate, Mr Postema will also have read history. The ECB has said for a long time: we should not do that. We do not want to do what Japan is considering and we do not want to do what America is considering. However, we have gone down that road one step at a time. It is right to note that the risks are extremely high because of these billions of dollars.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u5	There may be those risks. There are also many positive effects, such as the cost of public debt. I would like to hear from Mr Hoekstra whether we should problem the relationship between interest rates and the valuation of pension funds or the quantitative monetary policy of the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u6	I think it's both. I have just said something about the first subject. Our position on the second is well known to Mr Postema. We have had a wide-ranging exchange of views on this issue when dealing with the legislative proposal on the financial review framework. It was also found that we differed. Both of us recognize that it's lavering between two evils, if I may put it that way. On the one hand, you want pension funds to be able to serve pensioners and future pensioners. On the other hand, you want to be very prudent. That is more the tour on which the minister sat and also the Dutch Bank. We believe that the solution as defined in the new financial review framework is too prudent. He's too careful. That will not surprise Mr Postema, because that is what we exchanged in that debate. I would like to make a third and final comment on the budget in the light of Europe. At European level, we know the 3% standard and the 60% standard. These are sensible rules, which have also been introduced at the intercession of the Netherlands and Germany in particular, and which there is only one objection: they have been so endlessly ignored by Member States. Let's zoom in on the 3% standard. The practice is that many Member States already have the flag if they manage to reduce the deficit to 3%. However, if I understand correctly, the objective of the Stability and Growth Pact was fundamentally different, namely to ensure a surplus in high economic conditions and to ensure a balanced budget in normal economic conditions, so that the deficit can rise to a maximum of 3% if it is not economically viable. Let me put it carefully, that is not European practice and, when I look at the 2016 budget, it is not Dutch practice either. We spend about 10 billion more than is coming in, and if I have read it correctly, the structural deficit is even catching up. In that light, I have a completely wild thought and a question to the Minister: has he also considered spending less rather than more money than coming in? I talked about the vulnerabilities at global and European level. I've been talking about the fragility of the state economy in bad weather. Let me now turn to the financial and substantive choices of the cabinet. After years of burden increase, the cabinet decides to reduce the burden. In addition, it shows itself to be a generous steward, if I may put it that way. After all, the burden is reduced by 5 billion. Is this a tax issue that is also addressed in the Tax Plan? Of course, but we believe that it is the most fundamental change of direction for the cabinet in this Millions note and therefore cannot go undisputed. Mr President, it will not surprise you, we think it is in itself a point of order. Last resort has been a key element of government policy in recent years. Here too, we have repeatedly advocated cutting public spending, reducing consumer spending and reducing the burden. We are therefore positive in itself about a reduction in charges, but the question is what amount is sensible at the moment. Is that indeed 5 billion, or is that perhaps less, given the state of the economy and also the security situation in the Netherlands and elsewhere? Perhaps the Minister could give his thoughts some thought. In addition, it is good to consider the way in which the cabinet reduces the burden. His remark that as a good driver you should not miss the opportunity to link load relief to system reform has been constantly haunted by the Secretary of State. I will not rub that in again. The essence of the matter is, of course, that he is absolutely right. My question to the Minister for Finance is therefore the following. Why, after it became clear that there was little support for the so-called packages 2 and 3, was there not searched? Couldn't the VVD and the Labour Party have looked beyond just increasing VAT, and also looking for supporters? Perhaps the Minister could indicate to what extent he wants to qualify the package that is now on the table as "a real reform." That is the key criterion, not from me, not from the CDA group but from the minister himself, as he told the Upper House in May of this year. Apart from the choice of burden relief, the cabinet makes a large number of other choices in the Millions Note. We can endorse most of these choices. Let me mention four which we find striking or unwise. First of all... The budget for security and justice is once again getting out of hand. Our views on this point are well known. Ensuring the freedom and security of its citizens is the foundation of any functioning state. Let me repeat that. Ensuring the freedom and security of its citizens is the foundation of any functioning state. In order to maintain that foundation, more money has to go to justice, to the D.A., to the police, to the parole board and to the NFI. The cabinet must therefore do more, but it is doing less, and we consider that to be unwise. Second. The defence budget is also getting out of hand again. There's money coming up, and that's good, but it's not good enough. With regard to the world outside the Netherlands, we are once again a number of illusions poorer. There's a war in Ukraine. Putin is publicly considering the mobilisation of nuclear weapons. Russian fighter jets cross European airspace unannounced. And then I haven't talked about last Friday's misery. There is, of course, no objection to hoping that the present century will be more peaceful than the previous one, but at the same time there is no guarantee of that. We therefore believe that the Netherlands should invest more in defence than VVD and PvdA do. Third. It has not received much attention, but apart from the 5 billion, the cabinet still distributes a considerable amount of spread. The cut in rent is postponed and extra money goes to the childcare allowance, to sheltered workplaces, to childcare, to paternity leave, to nursing homes, etc. These expenditures are well in the papers and add up to about one and a half billion. Those are all fine subjects, that's not the point. However, there is something strange about the whole process. This particular cabinet has recently cut into many of these issues. Therefore, the choice to distribute money now does not seem consistent. Moreover, in our view, it is a clear but silent policy change, without the Minister having put forward macro-economic arguments for the need to do so. Maybe he wanted to keep those arguments for today's debate. In that case, we'd like to hear it. It seemed to us to be a break with what is in the coalition agreement. Fourth. Perhaps the most remarkable discrepancy of this Millions note concerns the following. The cabinet writes that more reforms are needed, especially in the near future. In my words in the Million Note, there is something else summarized: much done, much to be done. But at the same time, there is not the beginning of a plan that points that way. The reality is that since 2015 there has been no such thing as the Minister's call in the Millions Note. I am thinking, for example, of thezzp'ers, the pension system and unemployment. Anyone who remembers the 2013 agreement and who has heard Minister Asscher talk in recent years, gets the impression that somewhere near the Ministry there is a raging job machine. Whoever tries to add the totals then gets the impression that every Dutchman must have about as many jobs as the average senator. However, anyone who looks at the Millions Note sees that reality is something else. I see some of them moving in their seats restlessly, but this was not intended as a reproach. That is, to the senators. I would like to return once more to the reduction of charges and therefore look forward to the Tax Plan. I have noticed that many have done so this morning in other Gremia. I am sure we will be able to talk about this later. I am concerned about the procedural path the cabinet is taking. What does it do? It links the 2016 Tax Plan to another, stand-alone bill. That other bill is about box 3, and not about an adjustment in 2016 but in 2017. So I can't be clear enough about this. Nothing to do with the 2016 Tax Plan. For this course of action, the cabinet does not justify any substance. There can't be, because there is no justification. I will not go into the proposal for box 3. In that piggy Senator Van Rij will be happy to put the knife at another time. It's the clutch that matters to me. As the First Chamber, we do not have the tradition of clustering fully-fledged, independent legislative proposals. In this way, the First Chamber is deprived of the possibility of making a stand-alone judgement on two separate legislative proposals. For that reason, this is one of the first things that learned when I joined this house....................................................................................................................................................................................................... With this performance, the cabinet raises the suspicion that it wants to put the gun on the chest of the First Chamber, under the guise of "dare to adjust the Tax Plan and if you do not dare, you will receive box 3 as a gift." Again, I am not concerned about the content, but this approach is unwise and not good. It is not good for the relations, it is not good for the First Chamber and it creates a dubious precedent. I therefore strongly suggest to the Cabinet that both legislative proposals be submitted separately. As always, we look forward with great interest to the answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u7	Madam President. First of all, on behalf of the members of the VVD Group, I would like to join with Mr Hoekstra's remarks on the horrific events in Paris on Friday. I could not say it better than him, and I fully agree with that. The Dutch economy performs well in the first half of 2015 thanks to a strong recovery in investment and consumption. The Netherlands has thus created the conditions for a further economic recovery, driven by an increase in domestic demand despite the disappointing developments in the world economy, which are also reflected in the latest quarterly report of the CPB. This conclusion is a short summary of the European Commission's autumn report on the Dutch economy. Surely that is not crazy for a country that has been set aside by many, high and less educated, as if it had been cut back. The wait is for a first "I made a little mistake" from the many critics of the cabinet, but that will be in vain. In the meantime, in a report published last week, the CPB has also shown that the so-called multiplier of additional public spending does not lead to additional economic growth. It is an interesting report to which I would like to hear the Minister's response. Compliments therefore for the cabinet and for both directors of Finance present here today: it is a good report figure for the time being. However, it is an interim report figure: the final report has yet to come. So it's not time for laurels. Moreover, there are still plenty of challenges, as the cabinet itself states in the Millions Note. Although more than a hundred thousand jobs have been created in recent years, unemployment remains too high, partly because the economic recovery also provokes labour supply. A persistent core of the older long-term unemployed in particular is at risk. As far as budgetary policy is concerned, the concerns of the VVD Group are not yet over. In its opinion, the Council of State points out in particular the risk of a loss of sense of urgency and a waning awareness that further recovery and strengthening of the economy and public finances require continued efforts and reform. That is indeed a risk, also in the eyes of my group. The Advisory Section of the Council of State as an independent budgetary authority strongly states in its assessment of the 2016 budget that the Netherlands is not yet in order. While total public debt is falling as a percentage of GDP, it remains above the agreed 60% limit. The actual deficit above 2% does not provide much room for catching setbacks. The Council of State rightly states that, in the context of the uncertain international economic and political situation, the margin in terms of both deficit and debt is still very limited. The structural deficit in 2016 continues to stain this picture. In this context, the Council of State refers to the considerable differences between the various estimates of the structural deficit. For example, the Council of State indicates that this spring the structural deficit for the Netherlands for 2015 was estimated at 1.3% of GDP and now at 0.5% of GDP. That's a major deviation in six months. The Council of State therefore concludes that these estimates of the structural deficit appear to be surrounded by many uncertainties, while at the same time statistical realization figures of the structural deficit never become available. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this is problematic. The structural deficit is a crucial assessment criterion for my group. Does the Minister of Finance recognize himself in this image of the Council of State? If so, what can we do about this? Will he undertake to use his nevertheless influential position as President of the European Council of Finance Ministers in order to achieve a better estimate of the structural deficit and to promote the availability of implementation figures in the reports of the European Commission? Back to budgetary policy. The Council of State concludes its reflections with the conclusion that the government is not making sufficiently clear what budgetary strategy has been developed, given the still existing risks to public finances. The VVD Group invites the Minister to respond to this part of the Council of State's opinion, while also expressing her own views and views. It will not be unknown to the Minister that my group attaches great importance to sound and stable public finances. Deficiencies continue to put pressure on future generations and make important collective facilities for citizens vulnerable to setbacks. As a result, we in the VVD Group have carefully considered the proposed structural reduction of EUR 5 billion. After all, Mr Hoekstra pointed out that this space could also have been used for deficit reduction, thus strengthening the structural foundation of state finances. All things considered, my group supports the cabinet in this intention. It is precisely now that international economic developments are fragile that it is crucial that the economic engine of domestic spending is given sufficient fuel. Moreover, it is reasonable that the Dutch citizens should now benefit from the economic winds after the inevitable burden increases, which were necessary as a result of the crisis. However, the VVD Group sends the following political signal to the cabinet. The burden in the Netherlands is still too high, especially on labour. Moreover, there is broad consensus that the tax system needs to be reformed. Experience has shown that responsible implementation of such reform policies requires accompanying burden relief policies. In the coming financial years, therefore, the VVD Group wants room for further burden relief. The royal path is to reserve possible further tax falls if the economy continues to attract and, as advocated by the Council of State, continue a reform programme aimed at a structural decline in public expenditure as a percentage of GDP. For example, after the United States, the Netherlands has the highest healthcare expenditure as a percentage of GDP, despite the many good and important reforms undertaken by VWS leaders. This has made the growth of healthcare expenditure more manageable, but we are not there yet. In particular, the relatively high expenditure on long-term care determines this picture, as has also been indicated by VWS leaders in the examination of their budget in the Lower House. We in the Netherlands have decided that a lot of long-term care needs to be organised collectively and that it must also be financed collectively. Here again, by the way, this is the sharp contrast between the image of a broken-down care and the facts. However, it also shows that structuralally sound public finances and sustainable burden burdens can only be achieved if we continue with reforms aimed at reducing the size of the collective sector. There should be broad political consensus on this, because it is only in this way that we can assure the citizens of the Netherlands as well as possible of sustainable public services, including those that are not. Does the Minister wish to involve these elements in our invitation to address his planned policy for the coming years? My group therefore supports the burden relief package after considering the main points. My colleague Van de Ven will discuss this in more detail in the discussion of the 2016 Tax Plan. I think that this will also be an exciting debate if the omens do not deceive. However, the VVD Group wishes to address a more procedural aspect. Consistently and for a long time, my group in the Senate has objected to the use of various cabinets to offer several, often far-reaching, tax measures to this Chamber in one legislative proposal. The fact that this Chamber, as we know, has no right of amendment means that it can only say yes or no to the whole of the proposals. My college Wobke Hoekstra has just made important comments on the same theme. Fundamental objections to parts of the Tax Plan can only be materialised by the Senate by a vote against the whole. This can put this Chamber before an almost impossible balance. It is reminiscent of the rightly infamous use in the United States of putting everything and everything into legislative proposals, which often means that the co-legislator has to approve proposals against remembrance and gratification that the majority does not feel. In the United States, this type of legislation is rightly referred to as "pork" legislation. This is not the case in the cabinet, but the fact that, among other things, the proposals on the revision of the capital efficiency levy are an integral part of the overall package means that we cannot, as a senate, make a separate assessment of the proposals on capital. From a legislative point of view, this is anything but desirable and all the more so since these proposals do not go into effect until 2017 in the same way as the rest of the Tax Plan. For the sake of clarity, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers the proposals for the revision of box 3 to be perfectly justified. I would like to sincerely congratulate the Secretary of State for Finance on his excellent explanation and defence at this point in the House of Representatives. That may be my group's case as an example of an adequate defence. In particular, the rebuttal of the argument that the levy could be introduced in a responsible manner by now on the actual yield achieved because it is also happening in several other European countries was of special class. The VVD Group is therefore not concerned with the content of the proposals, but merely with the legislative procedure chosen. As excellent as the cabinet defended the proposals on box 3 in the Lower House, so disappointing was the argument for including these proposals as an integral part of the Tax Plan. Let us not forget: my group suspects that there is only one reason for this: a political link between the reduction of taxes and the return on capital. That's not pretty; that's anything but pretty. However, this is a fact for which my group will have to give in. The alignment of the entire Tax Plan for procedural legislative reasons, however essential, is not a real option, as it would also result in the loss of the Dutch citizens of the proposed 5 billion reduction. I have here a quote from a famous historical person, King Henry of Navarre, about the city of Paris: "Paris vaut bien une messe." In the current context, that quote is somewhat unfortunate, but I think the intention is clear. It's of all times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u8	Mr De Grave indicated that he would not want to torpedo the Tax Plan for procedural reasons; those are my words. Can Mr De Grave understand that, if there are injustices or at least unfair divisions in all this burden relief, groups can come to that conclusion? I refer in particular to the motion I tabled here during the General Political Reviews on the difference between one- and two-earners. It seems that this difference in the overall burden reduction can be up to five times as much tax on single-earners as on two-earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u9	I always understand, especially for substantive considerations, and especially when they come from a colleague from whom we know he always makes extremely careful considerations. Those substantive considerations will be discussed in the examination of the legislative proposals. In the end, each group will have to put all its considerations on a scale and draw a final conclusion. In the case of proposals, especially in the field of taxation, it is almost never the case that everyone likes everything equally. In the end, you will make an integral final weighing. Such elements are also evident in this proposal, such as the procedural considerations and the consideration that you could have used this as a way of alleviating public debt. That's all on the scale. We make a clear choice: we are all in favour of it. I think it is good to have the discussion on one and two-earners in the treatment of the Tax Plan. It is an extremely interesting subject. In the 1980s, I was able to participate in the then infamous or famous two-earner legislation. That too gave a lot of emotion. That was, by the way, a proposal to strengthen the position of sole earners. That's caused a lot of trouble. In the end, as we know, the legislator has made a different choice, namely to proceed to individual taxation. I have one more comment to make on this. For the rest, this debate really has to take place in a few weeks' time. The reason, in addition to the choice of individual taxation, is, of course, to a large extent in the highly rising marginal levy. To a large extent there is therefore the often used example that someone who only earns €60,000 pays far more tax than two-earning people who both earn €30,000. The reason lies in the highly progressive rates. In addition to the choice of individual taxation, this is another very important factor. So there are many aspects to it, but I repeat that I fully understand the fact that you, too, must play an integral part in all aspects. For one group, one aspect is more important than the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u10	Indeed, I am not going to go into that further discussion, which will be discussed during the examination of the Tax Plan. I would like to thank Mr De Grave for his understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u11	It's the least I can say. From what I have said and my group's choice of words, it will be clear that this procedural aspect weighs heavily on us. I make no secret of the fact that we are going to give in as part of this overall balance, but the VVD Group cannot send a stronger signal to the leaders and the cabinet that this may be different in any subsequent cases. After all, there is not always 5 billion reductions on the scale. We would therefore ask the Cabinet, if necessary, to give this aspect a very explicit place to avoid the risk of my group having a different consideration on subsequent occasions. I have already recalled that Mr Dijsselbloem has been re-elected President of the European Council of Finance Ministers, for which once again our congratulations, Monsieur Le Président! The Netherlands will also be President of the European Council in the first half of 2016. Then there's a lot going on. That is why my group invites the Minister to look into what he is going to do with these special positions in the next six months. What does he want to achieve in Europe in the coming year on several important dossiers? I am thinking in particular of making the banking sector more shock-resistant, tackling tax avoidance and further strengthening and clarifying the European agreements on the budgetary policies of the various Member States. Finally, my group would like to address with caution a subject that is logically linked to the core message of my speech so far, namely the importance for our welfare state of sound public finances, in conjunction with the role and position of the First Chamber. Again, I say this with caution, because I don't have ready-made solutions either, but everything starts with setting up and discussing. I am therefore also addressing myself to my colleagues, the financial spokesmen, and perhaps first of all, but the Minister and the Secretary of State are very welcome to think along these lines. The point I wish to raise on behalf of my group is the role of the First Chamber in relation to budgetary policy. The reason is of course the changing position and role of the Senate, now that political relations in the Lower House and in the Upper Chamber are so different. As former spokesperson Finance on the other side, I know that the rules of financial discipline in the House of Representatives are tight; at least for the parties supporting the coalition of government. Proposals that do not have adequate coverage are usually out of chance in advance. In the case of a motion, the cabinet itself is inclined to give these consequences a place in budgetary policy when the motion is implemented. The agreements of the government agreement also provide a solid basis for sound budgetary policies. However, the position of the First Chamber is different. First of all, there is no formal link between the coalition agreement and the political groups in this House. Apart from that: although to a greater or lesser extent politically linked to the coalition agreement, the actual situation is, as indicated, that these political groups do not form a majority in the Senate. Moreover, the First Chamber is the final part of the legislative process. It is therefore often difficult in time to give a place to budgetary consequences. The First Chamber can't amend either. Finding cover is therefore not directly possible, at most in a directional sense, but in the end the cooperation of the House of Representatives is always necessary. In short, what should be done if, as a group, you have insurmountable objections to a particular proposal but if you want to feel co-responsible for adequate coverage? As I said, this is a complex issue without easy answers; my group is well aware of that. My first question to my colleagues is whether they see this problem. If so, can we continue to consider how we can deal adequately with this as the First Chamber? I'm giving a few thoughts for consideration. Would it be an idea if the political groups in the General Financial Reviews indicated in what areas they expected problems with legislation with budgetary implications? That gives the cabinet more time to think about how to deal with it. It would be even better if these groups would also indicate how they would like to contribute to the proposals for funding. Various political groups, including the CDA Group, have done so in the General Reviews, at least in a certain way. If I have seen it correctly, they did so more in an aggressing sense than they also provided for a direct budgetary solution. I am not talking about blaming any party, any party. I am more concerned with marking this point. Again, it's not simple. Another thought is that parties in this house who intend to reject a bill, in consultation with their spirited colleague in the House of Representatives, will let the Cabinet know what coverage proposals they might want to support. That is not easy and full of complications either, but it is a line of thought. Perhaps the Minister would like to take part in this? Does he have any suggestions or ideas? It is well known that the First Chamber does not often reject legislative proposals and even less often legislative proposals with budgetary implications, but time changes. A wise co-legislator thinks about the consequences in good time and adapts accordingly. The VVD Group is curious about the reactions of colleagues and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr De Grave brings up an interesting thought. I very much agree with the essence of it in itself. If you take yourself seriously as a party, you should also tell us where the money should come from. The question is still in the air how we intend to proceed with this. I find it difficult to respond to the points raised by Mr De Grave in this period, let alone to the interrupting microphone. In my view, it is the most obvious thing to do, for example, for the Finance Committee. I would also like to add that I do not have any concrete solutions in mind to this problem which does exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u13	I would therefore ask Mr De Grave to take the key role of the First Chamber in the analysis of this issue. I have said in recent years and thought that this role cannot consist of checking whether we have got our way in the House of Representatives. That test should have a little more complementarity in this house. Perhaps Mr De Grave can still reflect on whether he would like to use his analysis from that perspective as well? Mr De Grave spoke about possible alternatives that could be put forward. I fear that this will allow some sort of factual right of amendment to creep into the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u14	The simple fact that I do not come up with concrete solutions even though I have thought about this for weeks indicates that this is difficult and that there are no ready-made, simple solutions. I am happy to support the idea of thinking through and speaking about it. Perhaps further reflection will give us concrete ideas. However, this indicates how complex this is. The aspect mentioned by the colleague of the Labour Party only makes it wider. I would now like to confine myself to the question of what do you do when you come to the conclusion in that key role that there is something on that scale, which raises the question of how you weigh that key role in relation to the budgetary consequences without us being able to do anything with it? That's actually the dilemma. I have also tried to point out that this has not been the case so far. However, given the elements I mentioned, this could occur more frequently. Hence the urgency of this issue. There are many aspects to this issue and, as far as I am concerned, we are taking up the debate in the Committee on Finance. I do not expect colleagues behind the interrupting microphone to come up with a ready-made solution. I am concerned about whether they are prepared to think through and talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u15	I agree with Mr De Grave that there is this problem. I get that. For the PVV Group in the past, it has been a reason to advocate the abolition of the Upper House. This point was an important element. However, this will not happen in the short term. This kind of thing also needs to be discussed in the right way and place. Until then, my group wants to carry out the function of Prime Minister fully as it was conceived. We will carry out the task for which we have been chosen. I think Mr De Grave's idea of bringing this up now during the General Financial Reviews is a bit of a bit of a snap. It might be useful for the VVD Group if we do this differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u16	The first part was one of the more realistic interruptions of the PVV, especially when Mr Van Strien concluded that the First Chamber would not be estimated soon. That's a good start, I thought. However, the quality of the second part of the interruption was slightly less, if I may put it that way. There's always a time when you're raising a subject for the first time. Be more careful than I've done, I don't think it's possible. I realize the consequences. My character is known; I'm generally not that careful. The fact that I use these wordings also indicates that this subject has many sides. Nevertheless, I would also ask Mr Van Strien to consider the fact that there are new developments. They will also have occurred in the past and ask new developments to think about how you deal with it. That's the point I want to set up, no more and no less. In my view, this is not a snapshot, but it is well-founded with arguments why, in the opinion of my group, further consideration should now be given to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u17	I understand that Mr De Grave is now withdrawing this in a way. He says he'd like to set it up sometime, but not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u18	I have already said this in response to Mr Hoekstra's interruption. It is my intention to raise the issue and ask colleagues whether they see anything in it, whether they see the dilemmas and problems and whether they are prepared to discuss them further in the Committee on Finance, for example. I interpret Mr Van Strien's interruption in such a way that he is at least prepared to enter into the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u19	Everyone here is, of course, thinking about what Mr De Grave is talking about. It is interesting that just recently during the General Political Reviews, the First Chamber adopted the Brinkman motion with broad support. In fact, it has already given the warning that if it takes its investigative role seriously, the budget of Security and Justice cannot be tolerated. It seems to me to be a proper course of action that you give a warning to the cabinet and then put out your hand so that it has the time to resolve it and come up with counter-proposals. Isn't that exactly what Mr De Grave is referring to? The intentions are clear, we take the key role seriously and we give the cabinet a chance, but ultimately, of course, the cabinet has to do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u20	That is why I have literally given my text this example, which is to indicate it as early as possible when you see problems with certain proposals. I have literally said that some groups have done the same. I would like to make the point that this was one side of the coin, which is not allowed, but the other side, the question of how this can be adequately resolved, came up a little less. There are, of course, also situations in which individual legislation is dealt with later and cannot be included in budgetary cycles, a legislative proposal with budgetary implications. Nor can there be any political clarity on a subject in the General Financial Reviews, which comes later. There are many situations in which this type of dilemma can arise. Once again, I said in my text that it would be a gain if, during the General Financial Reviews, groups indicated where they saw problems. It would be even better if something were to be said about the direction in which they are prepared to reflect on financial solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u21	I understand that Mr De Grave can support this procedure of the First Chamber: we issue a warning and say that it must be otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u22	In fact, I literally said that. In any case, it provides a timely clarity and gives the cabinet some more possibilities. But once again, that other element should also be given a place. If you want this aspect fully to come to its own, that other side should also be mentioned. However, it is better than not to say anything, which only makes it clear at the very last minute and does not really allow us to do anything about these budgetary consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u23	Mr De Grave invited colleagues to respond. I felt addressed for a moment, because it may be very good that I will be sending out exactly the same signal in the course of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u24	Ah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u25	I think we should do that as early as possible. That's why I choose to do that today. The general problem raised by Mr De Grave may perhaps be added to the discussion that might be held on the possible state committee if it continues. I am absolutely not in favour of this, let us be clear, but should it continue, I think this is absolutely a relevant point to take into account. Is that a suggestion that Mr De Grave also feels about, rather than just with the Finance Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u26	In any case, I am very pleased with the positive basic tone that your reaction shows. For the rest, I'm just a simple spokesman for finance. I can deal with a budget and budgetary issue. The subject you mention is very broad and it is also very important. I would like to assure you that I will take that with me to my group and give it a place there, because there are some higher-ranking people who need to think further about whether this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u27	I have a request for all Members to speak properly in the interrupting microphone, because otherwise they cannot be understood outside the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. It is, even after this sad and disturbing weekend, an honour and a privilege to speak in this magnificent Chamber; an opportunity that every new Member of Parliament, even under the promise of non-interruption, looks forward to with appropriate stage fright. Anyone who joins the Senate becomes part of an illustrious tradition, with Roman predecessors who tried to rule Europe in gowns from Rome, and with American contemporaries who, in dark blue suits, try to turn the world into their hands from Washington, both with varying and decreasing success. Among these giants, the role of the Dutch Senate is not all our indirect voters equally clear. In many of the congratulations that I received in my election, the words "chambre de réflexion," an expression with a remarkable history of esoteria, alchemy and freemasonry, were expressed. These wishes were often accompanied by worrying footnotes about the supposed increasingly "political" role of this company, often in combination with a heartfelt call in my direction for the input of much "common sense." The temptation is to speak on this in abstract terms, but it seemed more appropriate to me to try to make a contribution on behalf of D66 on the basis of this three-stroke aloof reflection, political topicality, common sense, on behalf of these General Financial Reviews, reflections in which there is scope for distant reflection on the recent past, but also for the political topicality of the present, and for a cautious exploration of the future, where sanity does not always prove to be against the most sophisticated macroeconomic model. I therefore speak here as a modest economist who knows his place, but above all as a son of a father who spent his entire working life in the service of the Ministry of Finance and who, from his own legal education, had undoubtedly found the modesty of economists and economists to be more than justified. I myself have not followed the steady rise of economists in the ministry without satisfaction from Erasmus University in Rotterdam, without suspecting that the recent past would raise serious doubts about the ability of economics and econometrics to distinguish good policies from bad policies. This makes it all the more urgent to learn at best from the most serious economic recession that has hit the world since the thirties of the last century; a crisis whose real cause economists are still divided. Was that the collapse of the housing market in the United States, after which the so irresponsiblely sloppy, poisoned American mortgages so severely disrupted bank balances worldwide that interbank financing threatened to stop altogether? Or was that the global concern that the US government's refusal to save Lehman Brothers implied similar risks for all Western banks? Background and cause was, in any case, a global risk capital deficit combined with excessive private debt, which was partly transformed by the crisis into long outstanding public debt and itself barely decreased. In this sense, the danger of repetition is far from over. I suspect the Minister of Finance will recognize that concern. Is it, I ask him, therefore not high time for a fundamental rethink of the tax treatment of debt versus wealth, for citizens and for businesses alone? Shortening the balance sheet. This became the task for banks, citizens and businesses, with a helping hand from the government for the first category. Afterwards, Lehman Brothers "too big to have been allowed to fail" turned out to be "too big to have been allowed to fail," and after that, no government could escape the task of maintaining system banks worldwide at all costs. But there was no escape from a serious recession then, and then all governments had to think about how to combat it: either with additional public spending to compensate for the private demand drop, or with interest rate reduction, or with growth recovery reforms, or, forward, with a combination of all three. And all this within limits, because interest rates cannot fall below 0% even though,........ and fiscal policy sooner or later runs counter to self-chosen or agreed limits on government deficit and debt. Each country does so in its own way, and we can learn from the differences it created. Differences between America and Europe, for example. America opted for a one-off injection of own funds into a large number of financial institutions according to the standards of then extremely high levels. Europe struggled from one country to another with what was and was not necessary, under the watchful eye of the European commissary for competition. The US institutions have repaid their debts to the government and are healthy again; the European banks are on the eve of a next periodic stress test to prove that they too will be able to cope with a next crisis. What does the Minister of Finance, who himself is a valued European protagonist, think we should learn from this difference? There were differences, but also similarities. Cutback became a key word in government policy on both sides of the Atlantic, and that was certainly inevitable on this side: Europe had no choice but to commit to the previously self-imposed fiscal discipline, and the recent CPB study, mentioned by several, suggests that the resulting damage has been surprisingly limited. D66 has been able to shape the Dutch cabinet policy and has contributed fully to the reform programme launched in the Netherlands. The memories of it are still fresh; they were not easy times. Now that the cautious recovery in growth is reducing public debt again, an obvious question for the Minister is whether he would not wish his successor a little more spending space than he himself was given in the course of a subsequent crisis and, if so, how he believes the basis for this should be laid. We learn from differences; between Europe and America, but also within Europe, which was so badly hit by the crisis as a continent. However, this was to varying degrees for different European countries. National policy freedom in the Member States is limited, but not zero; the limits that Brussels draws are negotiable and to some extent negotiable. How did the different countries manage it? And where did the Netherlands distinguish themselves from the rest? So at first glance certainly not because of relatively rapid recovery or because of relatively limited growth loss. Between 2008 and 2016, the United States grew 12% faster than the Netherlands, England 7%, Germany 6% and even France 3%. Employment in Germany increased by 6% since the start of the crisis and by 2% in France. The Netherlands is still looking at a 4% drop! And on balance sheet reduction: our mortgage debt rose from EUR 594 billion in 2008 to EUR 636 billion in 2015. This picture runs counter to the self-satisfaction that emanates from the Millions' Note and raises fundamental questions about the effectiveness of the Dutch crisis response, for example about the now emerging procyclical nature of our national fiscal policy. Does the cabinet have a comparative analysis of how Dutch crisis policy relates to growth and employment effects to that of our neighbouring countries? Is there any explanation of the above-mentioned differences for the Netherlands? And what does it teach us as a country in the run-up to what will ever become a next crisis, when it happens? Does the Minister have good policy advice ready for his successor, for example in the fight against procyclicality or, perhaps, does he have such realistic, good intentions "in case" under his own pillow? This not always cheerful reflection on the recent past leads us to the political topicality of the 2016 Millions Note. It's a document written in a recruiting tone. The cabinet has undoubtedly managed to substantially reduce public expenditure since 2012 and, in fact, mainly public administration expenditure is to be congratulated on this. In the sum of the crisis years, savings have been made of a magnitude that the Netherlands had not experienced since the 1980s. However difficult the path to recovery that Europe has taken, however difficult it was in the Netherlands recovery, however disappointing the growth and, in particular, export figures for the third quarter, however historically high unemployment and incapacity for work may be, and I would like to ask the Minister to comment on this list. Fortunately, there is once again confidence among consumers and entrepreneurs, and there is once again some budgetary space available to promote that confidence. It is the way in which the cabinet prefers to use that space, the much discussed burden relief of EUR 5 billion, which has attracted the most attention in this Millions note and perhaps in the absence of serious reform plans in other areas. Here, despite the title of the second chapter "Reform as a continuous mission," this Millions note greatly disappoints. I'm not the first to say this here. And that is precisely when the growing economic situation so strongly invites. This is the time to do it. It is precisely in the burden relief proposal that a missed chance of reform becomes most painfully visible in the form of the missed chance of a serious tax reform; something the Secretary of State for Finance himself warned about a year ago. It's a popular quote that I'd like to spare him now. Much energy has now been invested by all political parties in a search for improvements in this plan. D66 came up with an alternative with a more than twice as positive employment effect, including expansion of the local tax area and further greening. This afternoon, on the other side, it will be clear what the interim fate of these sensible ideas is. For now, it seems to be a missed opportunity. The rich budget is judged in many ways. On the basis of the budgetary principles of the existing cabinet, for example, if only to note that they are not always honoured. Or from the views of surrounding economists, including those of the IMF delegation, who almost all think that in this low interest rate the cabinet could have invested the 5 billion better in the competitiveness of the Netherlands than to give the amount back to the citizens. Or perhaps in the first place from the standards that were agreed in Europe; standards that this cabinet has repeatedly liked to see imposed on other Member States. It is precisely for this reason that it is particularly striking how the cabinet hardly seems to succeed in meeting the important European standard for the structural and cyclically-cleaned budget deficit. This will only work, as the Council of State also notes, if that structural deficit improves by at least 0.5% of GDP in 2017, and that is a worrying change in budget preparation for that year. The complex argument on the basis of which the cabinet looks forward to the outcome of the Brussels test in 2016 underlines once again the inscrutableness of the preventive arm of the Stability and Growth Pact. In his European role, would the Minister not even like to see these preventive rules simplified so that they can play a more visible role in the public debate? Prevention is better than cure, and that is why the state budget must also be judged on the extent to which it addresses and makes future risks manageable. Citizens and banks have little choice in how to anticipate future setbacks: who saves, builds a buffer for bad times. The citizens of this country have understood this message and even the extremely low savings rates have only limited their return to the car dealership and the furniture boulevard, despite the warm invitations of the Prime Minister to do so. The banks have understood this message and they are manly in meeting the new capital requirements, the question of whether they are strict enough. By the way, I would be interested if the Minister thinks that a banking light licence for low risk lenders, such as England already knows, could attract new Dutch entrants to ensure that credit-demanding SMEs do not become the child of that account. But a national government has a choice. It can strengthen its buffers by paying extra attention to public debt, but it can also choose to increase the country's resilience by substantially strengthening its economic structure. Does the cabinet give us a sensible choice? Unfortunately, the final answer to that question is not yet known. D66, unlike the Council of State, does not call for an accelerated phasing-out of public debt, but instead requires a more serious strengthening of our economy than the cabinet now offers. I regret that and hope that on 15 December we in this Chamber will be able to agree to a tax plan of a quality that my father would have feared. That does not mean that we have no other concern about the rich budget, and they are entirely in the spirit of the suggestions made by Mr De Grave. This is particularly true of the budget for Security and Justice, which has been problematic for years. Revenues are entered for costs, legislative proposals stagnate, the implementation of plans and projects is much more expensive than anticipated and cuts in core functions lead to poor quality. My group estimates the financial impact of this at about EUR 200 million. During the plenary session of the V and J budget in this Chamber, scheduled for 14 and 15 December, we will look in particular at the National Police, the case law, the prosecution, the probation, the registry rights and legal aid. In our view, additional resources for these parts will have to come from outside the V and J budget. A small, open economy benefits above average from the opportunities offered by the environment, but needs to be twice aware of the risks that threaten it right behind the horizon. And they're substantial. The beautiful chapter on risk analysis in the Millions Note gives a comprehensive account of it. The broad monetary policy of recent years has undoubtedly given Europe much credit, but economies should not be held up by their central bankers and their extremely low interest rates translate into new bubbles that rarely run quietly empty. And that's not the only thing. Does the Minister share the concern of many economists that Europe would have ended up in a long period of secular stagnation, demographically driven, with persistent interest rates of around 0%? This would provide a particularly unattractive perspective, as outlined earlier by Mr Hoekstra. There is an urgent need for new private investments, but they remain out of such a scenario. Where there is still growth and substantial income, namely in the Internet economy, growth seems to be low in terms of capital, and in a sector which also avoids conventional analysis of scarcity and productivity in other respects. Where would the best opportunities be for public investment? How can new breakthrough technologies be provoked? Would a higher European inflation target than 2%... I dare hardly say it in the shadow of Germany... be worth considering or remain taboo? These are not easy questions that I put to the Minister, but the Japaneseisation of Europe seems to me to be a greater risk than Islamization. Does the Minister therefore agree with me that the strong promotion of sustainable growth should be a key priority of Dutch and European fiscal policy? If so, what does he see as the main obstacle? As a hope for improvement in the Netherlands, there is a fear of stagnation in Europe, this makes the future even more uncertain. For the future of our country, however, we are not helplessly at the mercy of the unpredictables of the next crises. There is still a great deal to be done to improve the resilience of the sustainable knowledge-based economy that we want to be. Now that there is room for growth-enhancing policies, it must become our common priority in the coming years: to strengthen the resilience of a country that dares to rely on its own strength and on the adaptability of its institutions. I look forward to being able to contribute to that in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Rinnooy Kan. Congratulations on your maiden speech. As you have probably noticed by now, it is customary to briefly explain the background and career of the Member of Parliament concerned in each maiden speech. I will certainly do the same to you, but I ask you in advance to forgive me that I am not exhausting in this. If I am, I will go well beyond my own speaking time. Your curriculum vitae is so long that you have undoubtedly been nicknamed "Rinnooy Kan everything." In 1972 you graduated cum laude in mathematics and have a candidate in econometrics. After your studies, you worked as a scientific assistant for several years. In 1977, you joined Erasmus University Rotterdam. Here you were in twelve years: professor of operational research, professor of operational research, director of Econometric Institute and finally rector magnificus. In 1991 you temporarily left the world of science behind you, to hold the presidency of the Federation of Dutch Enterprises and later of VNO-NCW. Since 1996, you have been a member of ING's board of directors for ten years and in 2006 you became president of the ESC after a unanimous nomination. In addition, in 2007 you returned to the university, namely the University of Amsterdam, initially as a professor of policy analysis in the private and public sector and after your SER period as professor of economics and business administration. In all these years, you have fulfilled a large number of commissaries and secondary functions. I call the Concertgebouw, the Nederlandsche Bank, the Prins Bernhard Cultuurfonds, the Koninklijke Hollandsche Maatschappij der Wetenschappen and the Innovationplatform, but the list is many times longer. Your social position has not gone unnoticed in the press either, because the Volkskrant proclaimed you the most influential man in the Netherlands three times. Over the years, you have not only built up a wealth of administrative experience, but also a considerable capacity for chairing. In 2014 you even published a book on this subject, together with former Vice-President Gerdi Verbeet, entitled "President! The art of chairing without a hammer." In it you write that a good president is actually a modest world improver. I think that both classifications, good chairman and a modest world improver, fit you well. Mr. Rinnooy Kan, you're not a stranger to this house. As chairman of the ESC, you were here in June 2012 for a discussion with the Parliamentary Research Committee Privatisation/Independence Public Services, as well as your various research committees in the fields of education, care, culture and justice already brought you into contact with the chambre de réflexion several times. As chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, but also of course as a Member of Parliament, you will undoubtedly make a valuable contribution to the work of the Chamber. I wish you every success in this, and I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech. But as you know, I am the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. After this ink-black weekend we pick up the road again, with very nice and good things. I would like to congratulate Mr Rinnooy Kan on his excellent contribution. Our country finally abandoned the economic crisis in 2015. That is not to say that crises will not return, but those of recent years will be over. The Dutch economy is growing over a broad front. Despite the disappointing world trade, in particular caused by the further cooling down of the Chinese economy, exports remain robust. Household consumption is increasing thanks to an increase in disposable income, so what people actually have in their pockets. The recovery is supported by the growth of investment and a attracting housing market, also a child of concern over recent years. Unemployment is falling only moderately this year, to 6.9%, and is expected to reach 6.7% next year. But this is in the event of a significant increase in employment in the market sector and an increase in labour supply. So we are going to work considerably more and it will not be surprising that this is seen as an essential development by my party. A further reflection on the distribution of work within the household, including volunteering and care, is nevertheless needed. The same applies to focused attention to the labour market perspective of older people and immigrants, to which a motion by my group chairman during the General Political Reviews found broad support in this Chamber. The 5 billion package and the purchasing power decision-making of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet for 2016 improve the median purchasing power by 1.4% next year. This is an important development, confirmed by the high degree of confidence we have in the economy again. Working people are making the most of it by 2.5%, and that too is a logical and justifiable choice for us. The purchasing power of pensioners and beneficiaries is rising significantly, by 0.2%. For the more than three million pensioners, this is mainly due to lack of indexation in recent years. For my group, it is not surprising that low interest rates play such a decisive role in this. Of course, our pension system cannot in any way prey on the assets built up for the benefit of younger generations. But we wonder whether the interest rate for such an analysis should now be the most dominant factor, knowing that many of the returns actually realised by the funds are independent of interest rate development. Where we cannot and do not want to use the treasury to repair the pension payments, we do feel responsible for a discount method that reflects the fund's investment policy. The Millions note deals extensively with the future stability of our pension system and says important things about it, but ignores the issue of interest rates. I have referred to this as 'the elephant in the room': the overdependency of our pension arrangement on the European Central Bank's interest rate policy. Mr Hoekstra has already spoken about this. The government shares this view, as we would like to hear from the Minister of Finance. And what initiatives can we expect in this area in the coming years? In the case of beneficiaries, the purchasing power trend was initially unfavourable. We are pleased that the cabinet subsequently wanted to fix this, which will result in a slight average increase in purchasing power of 0.2%. The general government deficit is projected to fall to 2.1% in 2015 and to 1.4% of GDP in 2016. Compare this with the deficit of almost 6% in 2009 and the rapidly rising debt in the following years and we see how far we have come. There are still noises to be heard as if we had cut our economy down in recent years. Mr De Grave pointed out this type of critic. The Dutch public finances threatened to derail completely in 2009, after a year of in vain Keynesian stimulus policy, and to get down in an accelerated spiral. At a time like this, it does not help to keep deficits going, but rather to address structural imbalances. And that, however painful, is exactly what was done next.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u31	I do not disagree so much with what Mr Postema says, but he does say something intriguing, also in view of the history of his party. May I conclude that the PvdA Group is definitely saying goodbye to Keynes' ideas here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u32	I have never found that Keynes' ideas are one-on-one the ideas of social democracy. I think it was Keynes' great merit that he pointed out at the right time the need for an incentive policy if this is to be achieved. However, I do not wish to associate an economic ideology, such as that put forward by monetaryists, keynesians or neoclassics, with social democracy. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u33	It is intriguing, however, let me say it carefully, because supporters of keynesian policy can generally be found in the circles of the PvdA. At least that was the case in the past. I know Mr Postema well enough to know that he does not choose his words by chance. He's talking about Keynesian policy in vain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u34	Yes, it is. If we were to ask the Senate for the best course of action and also for the crisis of the 30s of the last century, we would all turn out to be Keynesian. However, we have been living, at least for the last ten years, in another world with great imbalances that we have learned over and over again not to be solved with a very broad spending policy. These imbalances required a real approach to the imbalance. The balance sheet in the private sphere, in the public sphere, at the bank; I do not need to mention that because Mr Hoekstra knows that as well as I do. I think it would be wise to explain how this has been done in recent years, including by my own party. We have noted with each other that in 2008-2009 the first attempt was made to overcome the crisis in the short term by keeping spending on a massive scale. However, the crisis turned out to be a lot more uncomfortable and it took us a lot longer to get out of it. There's a lot to be said about that. As far as I am concerned, that is to say that the holder appears to have won.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u35	I think Mr Postema and I are almost there. It was a relatively long answer and I think it is good to mark another discrepancy. I remember the time of the Kunduz coalition, a time when Mr Postema and I were already members of this house. At that time, I think the PvdA was spending just for more. In my view, this should at least be seen as a discrepancy with what Mr Postema has just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u36	I believe that the discussion at the time of the Kunduz coalition, as you call it, was content and not just about what was left at the bottom of the line. So I wouldn't want to smash it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u37	I would like to mention the fact that the PvdA is saying goodbye here in this house, or at least part of it says goodbye to Keynes' ideas. I would like to remind you that during the 2012 election campaign, the PvdA's group leader in the House of Representatives denounced the stupid European austerity policy, as he mentioned at the time, and therefore implicitly advocated a more expansionary fiscal policy. Apparently, this is a matter of progressive insight on the part of the PvdA Group. I would like to draw Mr Postema's attention to some facts. He spoke of a failing keysian policy, an anti-cyclical fiscal policy which was rightly said goodbye. After a farewell and a much more restrictive pro-cyclical fiscal policy, the Netherlands is in recession again. As one of the few countries in the euro area, the Netherlands has experienced a so-called triple dip. The recession in the Netherlands has lasted longer than in the neighbouring countries and the recovery has also taken longer. Only this year will the Netherlands be at the pre-crisis level for the first time. There's been 50 billion cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u38	May I ask you to come to a question? This is not a new argument, you know!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u39	I come to my question. Will Mr Postema respond to the fact that the Netherlands has done worse than the neighbouring countries and that the restrictive fiscal policy has indeed had very damaging effects on our economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr Van Apeldoorn puts words in my mouth that I have not said. I'm not giving up on Keynes' ideas at all. I would be extremely sorry to hear that, because there are a lot of valuables in Keynes' ideas. I have said, and I quote it again, that after a year of in vain Keynesian incentive policy, we had to do it differently in the Netherlands, because the situation asked for it. I want to make that clear. I actually share the criticism that European fiscal policy has not been based on a differentiated and genuinely well-thought-out approach. I think too much has been done with one measure and too little has been done with regard to the large differences between north and south. In this sense, like many of my fellow party members, I am indeed not very enthusiastic about European budgetary policy in the year 2012 you mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u41	I am pleased that Mr Postema shares this with us, but I would like to return to Dutch budgetary policy and the inadequate Keynesian policy that would initially have been implemented. Can Mr Postema go back to what happened next to the Dutch economy, when that policy was abandoned and when a much more procyclical and restrictive fiscal policy was pursued in the Netherlands? According to Mr Postema, what impact has this had on the Dutch economy, looking at the growth and the triple dip that the Netherlands has experienced? I would also like to draw attention to unemployment, which has doubled in the Netherlands in the same years and which is still incredibly high. There are over 600,000 unemployed. Mr Postema said earlier that the crisis in the Netherlands is finally over. In the light of this high level of unemployment, I find that a strange statement. Perhaps he can comment on that in reply to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u42	I would like to emphasise the word 'a little', because it may well be that this requires a very long answer. I am counting on Mr Postema to respond rather briefly or at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u43	A lot of questions have been asked and I would also like to serve Mr Van Apeldoorn. No, there has actually been no procyclical policy in recent years. It is nonsense that such a policy would have been pursued. On the contrary, spending has remained very constant. The point is that on the revenue side it has been greatly opposed. On behalf of my group, I appreciate precisely the steady line of maintaining the spending frameworks and, at the same time, the use of structural reforms in the banking, pension, housing and private debt positions of families and, of course, of the government itself. So that is not a pro-cyclical policy. As far as I am concerned, this is a very competent policy to address the structural situation in which we found ourselves. Such a policy is neither for scared people nor for beauticians along the sidelines. We would, of course, like to see the Dutch electorate appreciate this, but there was nothing else to do without that appreciation. We had to turn the tide, and that's what's happened now. In addition, continued economic recovery is driving up taxes and reducing unemployment benefits. This creates room for targeted tax relief. My group would have liked this to have been accompanied by a much more progressive, greener and simpler arrangement than the current system of taxes and surcharges and yes, including a real tax on capital, but there is currently no political majority for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u44	I hesitated for a moment if I had to make a maiden interruption, but I'm gonna do it now. What you just said surprised me, after everything you said earlier. On 15 September 2015, the Central Planning Bureau presented a study on "anti-cyclical or pro-cyclical fiscal policy." The Planbureau's assessment is that the Dutch fiscal policy has been largely procyclical. In my opinion, that is contrary to what you have just said. I really think it's a concern that this is true. I asked the Minister whether he agreed and what we could do about it. I'm curious to see what your judgment is based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u45	First of all, "procyclical unpacking" is something other than the policy you're pursuing. I do not think it is right, if the government maintains its spending frameworks and if the country then makes a big dip due to disappointing revenues, that translates directly into an anti-cyclical or pro-cyclical policy intervention. I also hope, in the group to which Mr Rinnooy Kan belongs, to find some sympathy for the fact that we have dared to carry out so many structural reforms together. That's the point I tried to make earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u46	You can count on the latter, but with regard to the first, with all due respect, I find the outcome of the policy more relevant than the intentions of the policy. In my view, looking at the study of the Planning Bureau, there can be no doubt that Dutch policy has been procyclical. I can even come up with some explanations for this, but with all due respect for the good intentions, it seems extremely relevant to me to pursue a policy that is substantially anticyclical than it has ever been.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u47	I'll leave that to the D66 spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u49	Time did go on; I hope for clemency. In this context, it may be questioned whether it is wise to come up with a tax relief package of 5 billion, especially since the structural government deficit rises from 0.5% of GDP in 2014 to 1.2% of GDP in 2016 and we are therefore at risk of going beyond the commitments of the Stability and Growth Pact. However, we believe that this is the right time to invest in the disposable income of people in the country. The crisis is over and, no, people should really notice that in their wallet and not just in the statistics in the newspaper or on the journal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u50	In line with what Mr Van Apeldoorn has just said, you said that the crisis is over, but unemployment is of course still a huge problem. Many people are on the sidelines, have no job prospects and do suffer from the hard cuts that have taken place. You yourself indicated that you would have preferred to use this whole tax reform for a more progressive and fairer approach. In my group's view, this has not been done enough. Do you think that the tax reform, which invests EUR 5 billion, meets the keys of the Labour Party, including greening, fairer distribution and more employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u51	I repeat what I have just said: my group would have liked this to have been accompanied by a much more progressive, greener and simpler arrangement. In this sense, we are not satisfied. At the same time, we note that there is a substantial reduction in costs and a substantial increase in purchasing power for people in the country. We are very pleased with that. We would have liked the cabinet to have been able to take a step further when it comes to the tax review. There is currently no political majority in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u52	This is a huge tax reduction of EUR 5 billion in total. Is it being spent in such a way as to meet the wishes and objectives of the Labour Party? Is this money not to a large extent intended for people who do not necessarily need it and should not have solved many other major social needs, such as the employment crisis and the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u53	That is an interesting point from Mrs Vos. Once again, the revision of the tax system could have gone another way in our view, but the 5 billion relief goes to extremely important things for the bottom of the labour market to make work more attractive again and to make it more attractive for employers to employ people on low incomes. We spend the necessary care and care structures to make work better and easier. In this sense, each of these measures has been welcomed by this cabinet as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u54	Finally, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u55	Finally. Of course, there are also measures which my group agrees with. Moreover, the measure to be able to employ people more quickly at the bottom of the labour market has been postponed for another year. My group believes that a large part of the money goes to people who do not necessarily need it, while a number of major social needs remain. Is this not, in fact, too much of an unfocused burden reduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u56	The answer to that question is that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u57	The spokesman for the Labour Party has said twice that the crisis is over. I'm a little confused with that phrase. I have two questions about this. How does Mr Postema explain to the 600,000 unemployed in the Netherlands that the crisis is over? In previous plenary debates, Mr Postema has always drawn a great deal of attention to the risks posed by the budget of the Netherlands. There's a lot of risks. I refer to the events in China and the BRIC countries, and I can go on for a while. How does Mr Postema appreciate these large global risks in other parts of the world and their impact on the Netherlands? Can he insist that the crisis in the Netherlands is over?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u58	Thank you for these questions. There can be no doubt about how sorry we are that there are 600,000 unemployed in our country and how important we are that the cabinet should feel responsible for this and implement appropriate policies. However, in the reasoning that is now being used in this Chamber, it seems that even if there were 300 000 unemployed, there may still be doubts as to whether the crisis is over. In this sense, I need to note that the economy is growing again after a long time, and that the forecasts for the coming period also seem to be favourable. If you then speak in terms of crisis and recession, as we have done in recent years, then it is indeed about shrinking and now, fortunately, back to growth. It is therefore important to highlight the fact that, as far as we are concerned, the crisis that arose in 2008 can be regarded as over. However, I also opened my contribution with the relativization that crises are of all times. I have been the first to say "no," too much. I did my best in 2011 and 2012 to make it clear, through the risk policy of the Cabinets of recent years, in the risk section of the Millions Note, that we must remain on our qui-vive and that our public finances must be sufficiently shock-resistant. I note that the sitting cabinet has made enormous strides on this point. I refer to all the expulsions of the euro debt and the guarantee schemes of the Empire. We are dealing with this in a much more controlled way than ten years ago. I am indeed positive about that, without taking anything away from the fact that there is a fierce world outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u59	The crisis is over. Mr Postema has given a number of nuances. In the light of this political frame, what is his message for the 600,000 unemployed and especially for the long-term unemployed among them? That's 44%. How does Mr. Postema rhyme those two stories with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u60	They are compatible, precisely by recognising that the crisis is over and that we have therefore successfully implemented a large number of reforms. I would like to say straight away that the implementation of some of these reforms needs to be improved. That gives air to invest in purchasing power. The moment you do that, you can achieve further growth of the economy and therefore of employment. The money that we have been able to save in this way is being used very specifically for labour market policy. This has a big impact. In particular, it encourages the groups at the bottom of the wage building to get back to work or work. employers to rehire those groups. My group welcomes that. The General Financial Reviews are a good time to look not only at the overall situation of the economy and public finances, but also at some capita selecta, as my group has always tried to do in recent years. First of all, during last year's reflections, I discussed in detail the tax practices with which the Netherlands has been facilitating tax avoidance by international companies for many years. I will not repeat our displeasure about this, especially as there seems to be a certain consensus that these are practices where food is very far away from morale. In the meantime, the EU has come to Starbucks for coffee. Last month we were told that Ikea's founder paid taxes for the first time in Sweden last year. Now we need Mick Jagger. And Bono. And Pfizer, GlaxoSmithKline, Kraft Foods and Microsoft, and all the other tax migrants who have no business here. It is estimated that national governments lose between EUR 100 and 240 billion in taxes every year, with the economically and institutionally weaker countries being hit hardest. My group therefore welcomes the initiatives in the OECD and G20 framework for a global approach to tax avoidance. We also wholeheartedly support the Dutch initiative to revise the tax treaties with developing countries. At the same time, it is a pity that the European Council - with our Secretary of State for Finance at the table - does not deal with the exchange of tax arrangements: past tax deals are not included in the exchange of information. This should not be a prelude to the way in which we deal with the OECD agreements. As far as we are concerned, we are going two further steps: taxing financial flows to tax havens and demanding transparency by companies on taxes paid by them every year. The first puts an end to the Netherlands as a transit country for tax avoidance, the second leads to companies using aggressive tax constructions having to expose themselves with the buttocks. It is important that these agreements are implemented at European level. It would be a credit to the Netherlands if it were to use the European Presidency in the first half of 2016 to complete the necessary European directive. We call on the government today to make a commitment to this. Will the Minister of Finance make that commitment? Secondly, my group calls for attention to be paid to the application of the budgetary rules, in particular as regards interim changes and related changes, the way in which funds are released for purposes other than those for which they were originally intended during an ongoing financial year. The main question is whether the way in which the European Union's payments and refunds are made can pass the test of predictability and transparency. This applies to the Netherlands, but also to the other Union countries. We call on the government to promote a much simpler and more predictable system of payments. This should make interim budgetary adjustments as much as possible a thing of the past. It is also reasonable for payments, refunds and post-tax payments to be included in the national declarations of the Member States. Does the Minister share this view and is he prepared to make this an explicit point at European level? Interim budgetary adjustments are, of course, not limited to changes in the Union's payments. For the record, there is nothing wrong with budgetary adjustment as such. A budget that is not periodically adjusted is likely to be either too broad or of a meaningless level of abstraction. And the government's cash liabilities system also allows for such adjustments, both in terms of the procedure through supplementary budgets and in terms of the system by means of so-called cash slides, i.e. budget shifting between years. However, we have difficulty with the phenomenon that cash slides are not rarely brought out of the top hat of the financial and economic affairs departments. It seems like the finest moment of the departmental calculators: helping the ruler out of the fire with a cash slide. The course of the purchase of the two Rembrandts earlier this year is illustrative in several respects. That many, both in the department and in the parliament, had no idea that the resources sought for this purpose could have been spent earlier or later would have been undesirable in terms of clarity. It is also necessary to prevent this budgetary technique from being taken into account. Can the Minister state what the criteria are for handling a cash drawer? Is it conceivable that there is a delay in policy without a cash drawer? If the answer is affirmative, is there not a risk that there will be no stable line in the use of cash slides and that an important budgetary principle will be put under pressure? If one budget line is currently subject to cash shifting, it is that of development cooperation. It is very important to find the resources needed for the reception of refugees in our country and to contribute substantially to the reception of refugees in the region. However, we are concerned about the one-sided burden on the OS budget and on the other hand, due to the fact that funds are being brought forward, the effect of which will be felt in later years. What is the picture of the government of these effects? Can it promise that this will not jeopardise specific budgets, such as contributions to the MFOs and NGOs? In addition to the cash drawer, the funds needed for the acquisition of the Rembrandts were made available using a different exotic technique, namely that of the use of possible future dividends from State holdings which are used as partial cover for current expenditure. How does this relate to the cash liabilities scheme as set out in Article 2 (3) of the Compatibility Act? In the government's view, is this behaviour in line with this? And if so, what legislation does the government base itself on? Is it usance that resources are released on the basis of quarterly figures of certain State participations? What then happens when next year it becomes clear that this dividend forecast could not be realised or that other holdings pay a lower-than-expected dividend? It will be clear that my group would like to see financial creativity not degenerate into budgetary opportunism. And if this is yet to happen, then we think that the forthcoming revision of the Compatibility Act would be the right time to tighten up the frameworks. A final topic that we are asking for today has a certain relationship with the previous one, namely remote management, in particular where the State is a shareholder. The Minister of Finance has recently made a clear statement on this issue in the context of the complications at the NS: an activist shareholdership may be expected from the State. However, what this means and how it relates to the examination of the General Court of Auditors "The State as Shareholder" of April this year is less clear. However, we do expect that clarity. With reference to the findings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Privatisation and Self-Government of Public Services of this Chamber: if it is unclear what the Minister is about, then it is also unclear what Parliament's control should be aimed at. The question is also whether and on the basis of which the Minister in his capacity as shareholder is given the right information to inform Parliament adequately. And then there is the question of whether the division of tasks in the case of management through shareholdership on the one hand and through clientship on the other hand works well in practice. The ProRail file suggests that we have the necessary success in this. What can we expect from the government on this point, not least the Minister of Foreign Affairs who would have a coordinating role in this? I'm rounding up. Our economy is doing well and it is high time that people noticed this in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u61	Before Mr Postema finishes, I would like to say the following. I've talked extensively about the clutch and I didn't go ice over one night. I have spoken with a large number of former Members of Parliament and former directors, and none of these people could call me a state-law precedent for what is happening. There was an example from 2003 that still goes a little in that direction. Then the cabinet promised to get better and said, "Never again." Now we've got that clutch. I know the Labour Party as a party that takes state law very seriously, even where it concerns the First Chamber, and yet Mr Postema has spoken about it for over 20 minutes without talking about it for one minute. I invite him to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u62	I am not really inclined to do that, even because the Tax Plan is in fact a legislative act at another time and I do not want to get ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mr De Grave has said a few things about this, and I have said a few things myself. Do I really understand that Mr Postema does not want to say anything about the link? Isn't his group in favour of it, is it against it, or does it find it complicated? Nothing at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u64	Yeah, he got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u65	It's remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u66	We note that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet has not only helped us out of the crisis, but has taken advantage of it to carry out a number of much-needed and far-reaching reforms. A thorough implementation of this will take both time and time to adjust. We will continue to monitor this closely from our own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u67	I give the floor to Mr Van Strien. That's the last contribution to the lunch suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. The members of the PVV Group also agree with Mr Hoekstra on the terrible events in Paris. Today, however, we must move forward with our world of General Financial Reviews. And let me just drop the door right there. The 2016 Macro Economic Recognition and the 2016 Millions' Note, which we are discussing today, have not been as meaningless and outdated as this year for at least the past five years. Under the heading "reform as a continuous mission" in chapter 2 of the Millions Note, we see an up-to-date knock-down on what has actually been broken down in the Netherlands over the last few years or, in the opinion of the Cabinet, needs to be broken down even further: the pension system, the housing market, the labour market, education. But what's not in it is even more striking. For example, in the 2016 Macro Economic Exploration, the word asylum does not appear separately or in any combination of words. The word migration, the biggest problem of the present and the coming years, both financially and culturally, occurs once, but it is about the fact that that might be the reason for the British to leave the EU. In the 2016 Millions Note, Table 3.5.2 contains a rule with a change of 400 million in relation to asylum seekers, for 2015 and for subsequent years zero. We are talking about estimates of 40,000 asylum seekers for 2015 and 26,000 for 2016. Some of the rules which serve as a corresponding text on page 80 state that the estimate for the asylum influx for 2015 has been revised upwards; that is the 40,000. This leads to higher asylum collection costs at the Central Asylum Reception Body (COA). However, the adjustment is not in any relation to the actual numbers. What can be derived from this is absolute ostrich politics. At all do nothing about the influx. You better speak of total apathy........................................................................................................................................................................................ We are not talking today about the dramatic consequences for our free Western society, as we saw last Friday in Paris. One or two of the perpetrators appeared to have been among the asylum seekers and found apparently right contact with like-minded Muslims in Europe. As dramatic as this unimaginable suffering and as much as we sympathize with the victims and the relatives, today we are only talking about the finances of the asylum influx. If you read in the newspaper that the European Commission expects a further 3 million refugees to come to Europe between now and the end of next year, that is more than four times the number that has already flowed in this year, then there are only two possible conclusions. Possibility 1: The government assumes that it itself will disintegrate and resign as soon as possible, probably after the deadline of the Dutch Presidency of the EU has ended; something the government groups feel so warm about, to put it euphemistically, that they can manage that together. Afterwards, the PVV can have the only party that puts the Dutch interest above the interest of economic immigrants close the borders. Possibility 2: The government floats so far above the everyday world that it does not see at all the continuously increasing asylum flow, partly caused by its own apathetic behavior. I'd like to hear from the Minister what conclusion is the right one. Our observations are, as I have said, much more pessimistic. Unless action is taken, billions more will be needed to finance the flow of fortune seekers. On the basis of the answer of PVV-questions in the Lower House, we have seen that the costs per asylum seeker alone in the first year amount to about €36.000. On the basis of the 3 million asylum seekers that the European Commission is predicting, a significant part of which will come to the Netherlands, we can only conclude that this cabinet will also have to spend billions more for the first half of 2016 that it intends to survive to finance the ever-increasing flow of fortune seekers. The latest German figures from the University of Munich show that about 20% of the intake is illiterate. You could say that's an advantage because they can't read the Koran and the Sharia, but then we forget that these people are going to be approached again by hate preachers with additional consequences for the costs of our security services. A question in this context: can the minister representing a cabinet that believes in a creative society give an overall idea of what the costs are, including for housing and education, to turn an Arabic speaking illiterate into a Dutch speaking westerner? Look, dictionaries Arabic-Dutch will be enough in this country by now, but you don't start that much in such a situation. In this context, I would also ask the Minister whether the international redistribution of resources by immigration from the Third World to Europe, advocated by neomarxist Piketty in Chapter 15 of his book 'Capital in the 21st century', has now perhaps been explicitly or implicitly taken over by this cabinet as a standing policy. After all, we have already seen that the Liberal VVD Secretary of State has already overtaken the Marxist Piketty on the left in his new tax plans, but on that we will come back to the Tax Plan. The already skinny, half-smoked cigars from our own box that we are getting thrown this year will go up in smoke in front of our eyes. Over the past two years, the cabinet has already caused 150 000 people to lose their jobs and 25,000 companies to be closed down. In any case, no one understands what the motto of this cabinet would have been for bridges in recent years. At least not to work. The balding of care alone resulted in the loss of 65,000 jobs and 20,000 jobs in home care. 270,000 older unemployed have been looking for a job for more than a year in vain. Also next year, more than 600,000 people are still out of work at home. And what does the 5 billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-bold According to the CPB, this package is going to create 7,000 jobs. The question remains: how will the cabinet help the remaining 593 000 people to get a job? That's not gonna happen. The economy is not recovering thanks to, but despite the cabinet and still very slowly. Due to the extremely low interest rates and cheap oil, the economy is recovering somewhat. And if we continue on the current road, mass immigration will destroy the burgeoning recovery. I'm coming to the EU. Anyone who thought that in 1991 the Gosplan, you know, the most important state body of the planned economy, with the break-up of the Soviet Union, had ceased to exist, was deceived. It exists again and sits under the supreme Soviet in Brussels. In the old days, that office in the West was the cause of great hilarity, but now we are laughing again and people are looking forward to criticism! As in the former Soviet Union, you will be fired immediately if you are not positive enough about the European unitary state. Only you won't be sent here to Siberia just now. For example, someone there must have thought that one should no longer be able to control debt in the euro area in order to increase the EMU debt, which is always expressed as a percentage of GDP, a little bit more, the denominator but a little bit more! According to CBS, they came up with it at the United Nations, but Gosplan was the first to introduce it. And so it was thought by the "gosekonomkomissia" in The Hague that all prostitutes, black workers and weed growers together were worth about 40 billion a year. This led to a reduction in EMU debt as a percentage of GDP of about 5%. Unfortunately, the geniuses of "gosekonomkomissia" have forgotten that the CBS had the task of carrying out a statistical review at the same time. And there was a blunder of Dutch policy makers in particular to align everything with the much smarter and less scrupulous "gosekonomkomissia" in the other European capitals, which means that we are now allowed to pay billions extra to Brussels and nobody understands how that happened. In the Soviet era, due to planning errors, a few million people were killed by farmers. On the contrary, you could say that the few billion that the Dutch taxpayer is allowed to cough up is still not so bad. However, the average taxpayer falls from his seat and has a different opinion on this. De Telegraaf started a WOB-procedure against the Dutch State and also against Brussels, if I am right, but much more than an image of confusion did not come out of it. The difference appears to be caused many months later by large corrections in the primary income received from abroad, mainly wealth income and in the paid primary income abroad, also mainly wealth income. The difference between these two items, according to the latest figures of StatLine for 2014, estimated at 209 billion and 201 billion respectively, i.e. 8 billion, is added to GDP to obtain GNI. A specific question to the Minister is this: if the fluctuations and errors in primary income received and paid abroad are so large, why is GNI, with a much larger statistical margin apparently taken as a measure and not GDP? I would like to point out that the PVV doesn't like this huge money flow at all, but if the calculation is based on quicksand, then of course it gets too mad. I would like to go on to comment on purchasing power, in particular that of the elderly. They are really fucked by this cabinet. Also in 2016, the more than 700,000 pensioners will give up purchasing power for the eighth year in a row. It's outrageous. Older people with a small pension who happen to be in need of care, make the most of it. Pensioners have already been given it to them by this cabinet, and when we read the newspapers, we can see that in the next ten years there will be a further 5% reduction in purchasing power as a result of the new pension rules. New pension rules based on a lack of understanding of statistics, allowing pension funds that are perfectly capable of paying decent pensions, which is simply banned by this cabinet. Unlike 50PLUS, the PVV is not for both mass reception of economic asylum seekers and the protection of our elderly. We just choose our elders and understand that you can't choose both at once. I would therefore like to call on the cabinet again this year to make substantial improvements in purchasing power for older people. A step could be to change the calculation rate for pension funds, much more taking into account the actual returns achieved, to a more realistic level. We have talked about Europe but not yet about emergency aid and certainly not about the never ending story Greece. There is little insight into how billions of aid is being spent on euro-area countries in need, according to the General Court in September. Over EUR 440 billion has been granted in recent years in the form of emergency aid loans. Not only is there little insight into where that money ends up, but it simply doesn't look at whether that money is being spent effectively. Democratic control is lacking. And how do the lending agencies, such as GLF, EFSM, EFSF and ESM, which should manage our tax dollars, respond to this? By extending the repayment periods and reducing interest rates. In other words, giving away our tax dollars sneaking away. And what does our Finance Minister, in his crucial role as President of the Eurogroup, think of that? The opinions are divided, just as the opinions on the vocal qualities of the bard in Asterix and Obelix are divided. The minister thinks it's fine, the rest of the world doesn't. In August we saw another episode in the Greek drama passing by. Unfortunately, this time it is not a piece of Euripides in which Greece is suddenly relieved of its problems by a deus ex machina or Europe of Greece. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no...................... Last week, for example, we read in the newspaper that the countries of the euro area refuse to give Greece the next EUR 2 billion credit package. The Greeks have not complied with all the agreements with the euro countries. "It's getting annoying," a negotiator would have said about the Greeks' attitude. We ask the question "only now?" Perhaps the Minister could say a little more about the next company and also about the number of companies that count this unconventional drama. I automatically come to the subject of guarantees. The Empire guarantees a total amount of 479 billion in guarantees and guarantees in 2016. This amount has again increased by 3.4 billion compared to 2015, as we read in a letter from the General Court. An important part of the guarantees relates to international guarantees. If I add up the international guarantees in chapter 7 of the Millions' Note, I'll get about 152 billion. Now, the General Court has previously called for attention to be paid to the risks to public finances and to the risks to the Netherlands in international guarantees. If there is no idea at all of the uses of international loans, no idea where that money will end up, no idea whether that money will be spent effectively and no democratic control of loans, how can I understand that there would be a view of the risks we run with the 152 billion in guarantees to the same institutions? This question is all the more important because all these risks are closely linked. If it goes wrong somewhere in this risky pyramid game, it also goes wrong on all parts. I await with interest the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u69	I listened very carefully to your speech, Mr Van Strien. I'm stuck with a little puzzle in my head that I can't get out of. You like puzzles, so maybe you can help me. There is much that the taxpayer gets for his choice: the elderly, asylum seekers, the general failure of this cabinet, burdens and so on. You've explained that in detail. Can you explain to me how this afflicted taxpayer is being helped by a vote against the PVV when it comes to a tax reduction of 5 billion for the same citizen who has been so afflicted?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u70	We are not yet ready for the Tax Plan and I do not think I have said anything in advance about my voting in that context. Apart from that, I think that a lot can change and that a completely different budget is possible, with very different tax facilities that would be so much better for the Netherlands. Then we are looking not only at tax revenue but also at expenditure. An important part of my speech is about this. You have to look first and foremost at tax expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u71	Then we shall resume the debate. It is also very nice to note that Mr Van Strien leaves room for that debate. The PVV has not yet taken a position on this issue. It's good to hear that. With everything Mr Van Strien says, my question remains, quite specifically: what is the Dutch taxpayer's problem with the vote against, should the PVV vote against?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u72	I'm not going into this as-then question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u73	Then we'll keep him in reserve; he'll be back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-17-eerstekamer-3.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Van Strien.
