ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The protection of victims of trafficking in human beings in our asylum chain remains behind. This is what Corinne Dettmeijer, the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings and Sexual Violence against Children reports. It recommends that better regulation be made for single minors who are dealing with trafficking in human beings or sexual exploitation. They often get caught up in the asylum system, if not in the shelter, fall back into the hands of traffickers and sometimes even miss a residence permit. Children who are victims of trafficking in human beings or sexual exploitation come into long-term stressful situations without a prospect of a safe future, while these very vulnerable children deserve our protection and loving environment. I therefore have the following questions to the Secretary of State. First of all... Is the Secretary of State prepared to look at a better reception scheme for single children who are victims of trafficking in human beings or sexual exploitation? Second. How does he view the integrated asylum procedure proposed by the National Rapporteur in her report? Third. GroenLinks believes that this problem can be further addressed by creating the possibility of granting asylum permits in the interests of a child, so that children do not fall between countries by choosing the wrong procedure. What's the Secretary of State's position on this? Fourth. The report shows that the prosecution of perpetrators of trafficking in human beings is still lagging behind. What will the Secretary of State do to increase the number of prosecutions of human traffickers and sexual exploiters? Fifth. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send a broad response to the recommendations in the National Rapporteur's report to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I've been looking forward to the report with great interest. It appeared today. I have to warn you that I haven't been able to read it yet. I am glad that it is there, because we widely share the view that we want to track down human trafficking and that we want to have the right to let go by picking up and punishing the terrible people behind it and dismantling these networks. This is an important aspect of reporting victims of trafficking in human beings. I can imagine that there is a tension when it causes someone to fall between ship and ship in terms of procedures. At the same time, however, it is difficult to combine these procedures. I am going to look at it, so the answer to Mrs Voortman's last question is: yes, I come up with a thorough response to the whole report. I cannot now give my final opinion on parts of it. Again, I have to read it. In general, I will look at all the recommendations and respond to them. I'm not ruling anything out in advance. With regard to the interlinking of procedures, which is really the issue, criminal law and asylum procedures both have their own set of requirements. I should first examine the extent to which directives on asylum allow greater mixing with the other route than is currently the case. I can't say in advance that we're gonna do this and not that. We will inform the Chamber in detail about all aspects and recommendations of the report after the recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	Of course, I understand that the Secretary of State must send us another broader response. At the same time, I think that the national rapporteur is raising a number of very important issues, which we have already raised. In my view, the Secretary of State could now also say: well, at this point I can give you a hint of the veil. This is, for example, about the better reception arrangements. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into that? I asked what the Secretary of State is about the integrated asylum procedure. He now indicates that it is difficult, that combination of criminal law and asylum procedure. But can't I assume that the importance of care is paramount? I'd like to get a confirmation from the Secretary of State. In addition, I indicated that we think it is important to explicitly include the best interests of the child in asylum procedures, i.e. to explicitly create the possibility of granting an asylum permit in the best interests of the child. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? I would also like to hear what the Secretary of State is going to do to increase the number of prosecutions of human traffickers and sexual exploiters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	As far as the procedure is concerned, I am not saying that I do not want any of that. The willingness to look at it is, of course, there. But it is precisely in the interests of the people who it is that we should be careful with mixing. Let me give you a small example. I can imagine that it might work to increase the number of declarations to say: if we think there is trafficking in human beings, then you should not start examining the asylum application until it has been reported. That is not the proposal, by the way. I still have to read it. This could increase the number of declarations, but this would also undermine the legal status of the person applying for asylum if that person were to be eligible for it independently of the 'trafficking in human beings' aspect. That's one example of two things that seem to go easily together, but that can bite each other at first sight if we don't do it carefully. That is why I must look carefully at what is possible and desirable in this regard. But in any case, there is a willingness to look into it. The importance of the child is an important aspect that is taken into account in the applications. I see we're out of time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	I still have some time. I would like to use it to say that I am in any case pleased that the Secretary of State is prepared to look at the possibility of such an integrated asylum procedure. I think this could be an important step forward. With regard to the importance of the child, my proposal was that asylum permits can be granted explicitly in the best interests of the child, so that an additional ground is added to the law. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a look at that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	We have also discussed this last point earlier, in the AO. I believe that the importance of the child is now well guaranteed in the laws and regulations. It's an important aspect. I also see good implementation in practice on this point. In my view, I still have the commitment to consider whether a different wording would be useful in the texts we use. I will take into account that Mrs Voortman has now also drawn attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Voordewind, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	It is a good thing that the Secretary of State is prepared to look at the report and also at the possible integration of shelter and asylum procedures in the case of ama's. However, I would ask the Secretary of State to include in the response the question of whether he can investigate further the disappearances of ama's, which are still taking place. We talked about that in the last AO. 85 young people disappear every year. That came back in the report. They may disappear through human smugglers or traffickers. I'd like to put this question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	The report gives grounds for suspecting this. This is always very difficult territory, because people decide to leave. You don't know where they're going. That's also the disadvantage of disappearing. I'll see if I can shed some light on that, to get a little more insight into the relationship between people who think "I shouldn't be here" and people who disappear through nasty, organized cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	I fully understand the fact that the Secretary of State has not yet been able to go through the report. We look forward to the cabinet response. I would like to ask him specifically whether he can comment on the statement made by the National Rapporteur on the fact that the stress of choice may result in a group of vulnerable children opting for the asylum procedure now, with the detection of trafficking in human beings no longer being secured. That is a worrying development. I ask the Secretary of State to respond very specifically and also to look at the reflexes involved. The national rapporteur mentions the stress of choice, but it may also be possible for incorrect information and the alert, which she also mentions, to play a role in this. Will the Secretary of State specifically record these cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	I will also take that with me, because it is all two things that are intended to protect people who deserve protection in a legal capacity: the asylum procedure and the victimisation of trafficking in human beings. If, in practice, it turns out that these two structures, which aim to achieve the same goal, are in each other's way, something goes wrong, especially if this leads to protection being provided through the asylum procedure, but the search information is left behind to prevent a trafficker from causing future victims. So if it is true that there are aspects that we can take away, I will certainly take them with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you for your answers. I thanked you before for coming to the Chamber, but then you were allowed to stay for another question.
