ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the broad lines of the WSW's financial frameworks, and the WSW is not social employment, as some people sometimes think, but the Social Housing Guarantee Fund. I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and the National Service: thank you for joining us. We have seven participants on the side of the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Van Vliet. He has one minute's speaking time. I further assume that everyone is reasonably limiting the number of interruptions, so that we will not allow this debate to continue until the middle of the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Minister is well on his way to putting the lessons of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations into practice. This debate is about its conclusion, namely the financing and guaranteeing of social housing and, in particular, the role and position of the Social Housing Guarantee Fund, the WSW. The Ver van huis survey report showed that the WSW played a bad role and contributed to the problems of the corporations. The WSW played for the bank and approved bad financial products as speculative derivatives. The supervision of secured loans was also a shambles. Furthermore, it appeared that the guarantee system contained perverse incentives that caused a huge risk of impairment, such as being completely risk-free by banks. The cooperation between the WSW and the Central Fund for Housing was not and is still well regulated. The WSW still works with the value of the real estate in the risk management process while the new Authority has switched to market value in the rented-out state. Why doesn't the WSW fit in? I'm glad the WSW cleaned up. I'm tasting a cultural change in that. I am also pleased that the Minister has made many proposals to put the WSW under tighter government control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u3	You are over your speaking time for two seconds, but we will not fail to point that out to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr Van Vliet is getting rid of it very easily. Can he also indicate what he thinks about the incentives, the funding possibilities and the duty of care around banks and the WSW?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u5	I've been thinking about that. The Minister announces that he will come forward early 2016 with detailed ideas on these incentives, funding opportunities and care obligations around banks and the WSW. I shall, of course, follow that very closely. The own risk for corporations, banks and/or municipalities are good options. However, the supervision of the WSW is based on a public legal framework per General Measure and will be transferred to the Authority's Housing Corporations from 2016 onwards and not to the Minister. Why do we not go ahead now and do the monitoring, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry, not ourselves? The powerful integral independent regulator with perseverance power, which it has been lacking for so long, is that the Authority's housing corporations within the ILT? No. The ILT has a culture of ticking and the latest survey report on the Fyra showed very clearly that the ILT has dropped huge stings in that file.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr Van Vliet must speak very quickly, but I thought I heard him say that the corporations and the banks might have to bear their own risk. The Labour Party is not very enthusiastic about this, certainly not about its own risk to the banks. Is Mr Van Vliet not afraid that the rates will then rise and that the value of the whole guarantee system will be partially destroyed again? Does he not think that in the agreements that the Minister still has to make with the WSW those guarantees, including with regard to the financiers, can be secured?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u7	I'm glad the Minister's pulling the strings. There is a lot of music to be found. Raising own risks to remove perverse incentives is, of course, also the basis for removing these incentives. If it would lead to more costs for corporations, we need to look closely at them. Where do the calculations come from? Of course, you can opt for your own risk for corporations. They won't get everything secured. They'll no longer have their own risk for municipalities that used corporations as ATMs in the past and have their own risk for banks. I would like to return to that at a later stage. The culture of ticking at the supervisor is also important to me to keep the whole track. Should we be confident that this Authority housing corporations, an underprivileged ILT child, will come out of the spotlight? No! The Committee of Inquiry's proposal was clearly better. Make it a rigged zbo, because then we are really done with that discussion and that authority radiates authority again instead of being seen as an undesirable club by the corporations. And the author of the original amendment, Mr Verhoeven of D66, is now very much in agreement with me that we need to reposition that supervisor. I would also like to make a motion on that point. Finally, I will be quick to consult the Minister with the WSW on active monitoring of the actual use of secured loans. Until 2007 the WSW control was applied per project. I would like to see the Minister, in the discussions, reinvigorate control of the funds used per project. I would like to hear a view from the Minister. Otherwise, I am considering tabling a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u8	The questions that Mr De Vries just asked about interest rates can also be looked at quite differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u9	Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u10	For example, in Denmark you also have public security. That is not where the banks provide the loans, but it is the government that does that. Is it also a passable way for Mr Van Vliet to draw the housing corporations much more towards the government and make them truly public institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u11	Hm. It's a big question whether you're bringing housing corporations back to governments. I would like to involve it more on the subject of this debate. Look at the position of the guarantee fund; is that a private or a public club now? It is a purely legal club, but it does carry out a material public supervisory task on admitted institutions, with a property and with an obligation of destination. I think you can learn from the Danish model about monitoring the guarantor, but I would not apply that one-on-one to the Dutch situation. The Minister has also drawn up a comprehensive view on this. To a large extent, I agree with this: at a private law institute like the WSW, we have to attract a lot of supervision, but that does not have to be done, as far as I am concerned, by pulling it all directly into the public sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u12	What I'm having trouble with is the next fact. Housing corporations now borrow money from banks, but these loans are then secured by the WSW. If things go wrong, other housing corporations take over and eventually the Empire and the municipalities. The banks will get the interest in the meantime, but if it goes wrong, they'll get all their money back. The question is why they get that interest. It is not proportionate to the risks they run, because they are not at risk. That is why I am asking whether we should not go to a system in which there is also public assurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u13	In accordance with the outcome of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations, I would rather look for it in order to remove such a perverse incentive by shipping the banks with a bit of risk, although that might make the loans a little more expensive. If you maintain the guarantee system as a whole, but don't let them deposit everything anymore and impose their own risk on the banks, you'll see that such a perverse incentive would be awesomely reduced. Then the banks have to scratch behind the ears and wonder what happens to the money they lend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u14	Mr. Chairman. We are not talking about the future of the Social Housing Fund for the first time today. There are now two paths next to each other. The first is about governance, so good governance of the fund. We received a letter two weeks ago from the Minister. The control of the guarantors is governed by public law through contracts and statutes, but we also build up public guarantees through an adaptation of the Decree permitted institutions' housing. The changes proposed by the Minister seem logical. The management of the WSW remains with the director and the supervisory board. In addition, we set out some principles on information provision and management. It is important that, because of the guarantee he gives, the Minister obtains authorisation for decisions that affect financial soundness. Only if that does not work can the Minister give instructions or send the Supervisory Board home. The VVD has been criticised from various quarters. Then it's about statehood or nationalisation. This would undermine the function and independence of the WSW. The VVD doesn't share that criticism. The WSW played a crucial role in the problems at Vestia and that could only happen because the lenders blinded the blank cheque that the government had written in the past. The VVD praises the changes made by the WSW itself, but our work is not finished. The Minister is now calling for control, which a business guarantor would also ask, and as a taxpayer I am pleased with it. But the Minister wants something more, and I do have a question about that. Provisions of the Decision permitted institutions could be strengthened through a ministerial arrangement. Can the Minister indicate the usefulness and necessity of this? Under what circumstances could that be? Why would you do that through an arrangement and not through an AMvB, so that the Chamber can watch? I do not doubt for a moment the intentions of this excellent minister, but the question is whether his successor has the same liberal approach. The second is about a more fundamental reflection on the system. The Minister sent a letter in September analysing different systems with bankruptcy scenarios and an international comparison. The VVD does not read in the Minister's letter any fundamental problems in moving to a completely private system without the back of the Empire. However, we are aware that there will not be a majority in favour at the moment. We do insist on measures which reduce the risk to the government. Such a measure is the introduction of a first loss for municipalities. Now that corporations have a limited area of work and conclude performance contracts with one or at most a few municipalities, it is all the more important that these municipalities bear their own risk. The over-ambitious alderman is therefore affected by his or her policy. The Minister has already promised to come back to this in the spring. I look forward to that. Another measure is tariff differentiation. The WSW already has a credit rating system running. Isn't the logical follow-up step that credit to bad corporations is adequately priced? Finally, in his letter, the Minister writes about bankruptcy and reorganisation. Why does a corporation continue to exist as a foundation after reorganisation? Is it no longer obvious that the foundation will be converted into a company with the WSW or the State as shareholder in the restructuring process? This will make sales considerably easier, allowing the cost of clean-up to be recovered quickly. Is the Minister still able to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u15	I've always learned that interest is a compensation for the money you give to another person and at the same time a compensation for the risk you run. Can Mr Van der Linde explain why housing corporations have to pay interest to banks, as they are not at risk at all? If things go wrong, the WSW will pay the money back, and if things go all wrong, the Empire will catch it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u16	I can explain that to Mr Bashir. You pay interest because of some kind of readiness: you give money and you can't do anything else with it for a while. On top of that, you get a risk premium. The guarantee is the reason the banks charge such a low interest rate. If you choose to allow banks to bear their own risk, the interest will rise and it will become more expensive for corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u17	The moment the banks are at risk, you pay for something. At the moment, the banks are not at risk at all. If things go wrong, the Empire will eventually catch it. The banks always get their money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u18	Yeah, that's right. If they are at greater risk, they also ask for higher interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. The Waarborgfonds Sociale Woningbouw is a private guarantee fund and guarantees no less than 85 billion. That's a huge amount of money. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations has shown that the WSW has failed in the past. That's very disturbing. The WSW is crucial in our social housing system. It is very important that we make the guarantee system with state guarantees reliable again, because this ensures that interest rates for investments in social housing are as low as possible. The WSW has not been sufficiently critical in the past. In fact, the WSW would have even encouraged corporations to take risks. The supervisor went to play the bank himself, so to speak. As a result, the tenants pay the price. As far as the PvdA is concerned, that must never happen again. We thank the Minister for his letter of 30 October, in which he writes that on 1 July private law, by means of an amendment of the statutes and a private law agreement, everything and everything that has already been settled. In this letter he also writes how he wants to regulate the case in public law, by means of a General Measure of Governance and a ministerial arrangement. My group has a number of questions about this. On top of the private law road, the Minister also acquires many powers under public law. What role does he see for the Chamber in the exercise of those powers? Does the Minister agree with the PvdA that the influence of the Chamber is better secured if everything is regulated in an AMvB and he renounces a ministerial arrangement? Does the Minister insist that the Authority should design housing corporations and the ILT to supervise the WSW? Is that safe enough? Is the ILT a lucky choice after the destructive report on the Fyra? The consequences of the Vestiadrama are strongly felt by the tenants of this corporation. Are the interests of the tenants sufficiently secured in everything that is now being strengthened? The PvdA is not enthusiastic about the risk compensation for the back capture. I trust that the Minister, in line with the Monasch motion adopted by the Chamber, will abandon the idea of imposing a loan guarantee fee. Can he confirm that? The new Housing Act gives municipalities and tenants a much larger voice in the use of investment space. In order for this to work properly, reliable information is needed on the investment space of corporations. The WSW has that information. Every corporation has a rating. Will the information at the disposal of the WSW be available to municipalities and tenants? Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether he sees with us the danger that with the tightening of financial supervision the people's housing performance of the corporations will be out of the picture. After all, building social housing is not always financially attractive. A sound financial situation is a condition, but not an end in itself. With the chosen construction, the Minister must guard both the financial and the housing interest. Isn't he afraid these different hats are gonna pinch? Isn't that also a reason to refrain from a ministerial arrangement and to be satisfied with a General Administrative Measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u20	Mr. Chairman. The contribution of the CDA may be limited. Following the parliamentary inquiry on housing corporations, we had a good debate on policies and regulations in response to the abuses observed in the corporations. That debate does not need to be repeated, especially since we see that all players are more involved in the new constellation. Corporations find their new place in the sector and municipalities do. The WSW has also refocused on its task and role now that the supervision of corporations has been substantially updated. The changes proposed by the Minister are a logical follow-up step. The use and necessity of the WSW are fixed for the CDA, even with the current low interest rates. Without the WSW, the banks would have more power in the corporations, because they would then determine more when and how much investment is and may be made in the corporations. The CDA does have a number of points of interest and a number of questions. The WSW can paint an image of the current and future investment power of corporations. It would be a good thing for the Chamber to have that image and to be alert to the question of whether there are areas where there are so many financially weak corporations that it would harm the housing of the people. Are there areas and regions in which all corporations are so weak financially that they are not allowed to invest in the WSW? Is there an image of that? The WSW should primarily not have the popular housing interest in view, but the financial risk. It is up to the Chamber to make the political balance with both images. The review framework for the WSW is in the making. It is not yet clear to us whether the Minister is in favour of a ministerial arrangement or an AMvB. The CDA is strongly in favour of a general measure of governance with a back-up, because the Chamber can then look along and the rules cannot be changed in an instant with a ministerial arrangement. The big corporations also have big risks. Of the four large corporations, three are supervised. Smaller corporations generally manage their risks better. How can the Minister send this from the WSW point of view? And can he indicate where the money of the Central Fund Housing (CFV) is managed, or.q. parked? According to our information, this would exceed the amount of 600 million. The implementation of the CFV is part of the Inspection Environment and Transport (ILT). We are curious to see where the financial amount of the Central Fund for Housing is at the moment. And how is it secured that it stays there? Can the WSW sufficiently deal with the challenges, such as the extra housing of status holders? The cabinet has indicated that it concerns 10,000 additional semi-permanent dwellings. I am asking this question because, in the long term, there may be a great risk to the corporations because of a great uncertainty about the profitable operation of these houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u21	I heard Mr Ronnes say that everything has gone a bit after the debate on the Committee of Inquiry and that we no longer need to have that debate. We now have a new committee of inquiry, to the Fyra. It says that the ILT is a tick-off club, but that's what our powerful integral supervisory authority is crammed under. What does Mr Ronnes think of us all striving for such a supervisory authority? Shouldn't we take a good look at that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u22	Maybe I haven't been clear enough, but after the survey, a repositioning took place. The players are joining this new constellation, but I agree with Mr Van Vliet that supervision can be reviewed again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u23	I'm just trying to understand the portrait of the comment about the refugees. Does Mr Ronnes mean that the WSW should make it possible for these refugees to be received in social housing or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u24	As part of the overall refugee issue, it was agreed that additional housing would be built. This is done on the basis of an uncertain future, because how long will the exploitation of these homes take? In other words, how long do these people stay in there? For the back capture, the WSW, this means clearly uncertainty about the future, because how should this guarantee take place and how should it deal with it? The question is whether the WSW as proposed here is sufficiently detailed to deal with it or whether it is out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u25	If Mr Ronnes means that the WSW must explicitly operate independently and comply with its financial objective, then we are in complete agreement, but I am concerned about political interference. We should not prescribe the WSW to make more room for additional homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u26	Again, I asked the Minister if the WSW could deal with this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u27	We have had a wide-ranging debate on this subject during the budget debate. I am surprised that Mr Ronnes focuses exclusively on the housing of status holders. Now the Labour Party has put forward a proposal with operating figures which clearly show that there is no risk if you make the homes so that all house seekers, including Dutch house seekers, can live in them. For the rest, does Mr Ronnes really think this is a very difficult business case for the WSW?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u28	I would be happy to discuss the housing of status holders, but what I said was that I mentioned an example. Now it is a question of whether the WSW is equipped to deal with it at the moment when there are extreme situations. Or is the WSW out of play? I would like to go into the plan for exploitation presented by the PvdA in detail, but I think we will then have another discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u29	No, we've done that too many times. President. - I call Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u30	All I wanted to argue is this. The WSW can handle these kinds of questions very well and depends on how we ask the questions here in this house. If we ask sensible questions, they can also give an answer that makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u31	I would be interested to hear the Minister's answer on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u32	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a unique security system. Mutual solidarity between housing corporations ensures that housing corporations can borrow cheaply. That's a big advantage. This should make it easier for housing corporations to provide good and affordable housing. However, the parliamentary survey on housing corporations showed that the guarantee fund, the WSW, had seriously neglected its core task. We can't let that happen again. That's why a lot of things are going to change at the WSW. We have now received from the Minister an impetus for a letter setting out the issues he is going to deal with at administrative level. However, as far as the SP Group is concerned, we must also have a financially effective guarantee system that works effectively and efficiently. There must be good public supervision. As far as we are concerned, there is no room for the market. I note, however, that the Minister has now made a clear choice for a body governed by public law. It is good that the Minister is not going to walk the entire private path. But can the Minister explain why he leaves the banking sector completely untouched? It is precisely when it comes to supervision, precisely when it comes to secured loans, that banks need to be seen when it comes to risk-bearing. The Minister doesn't write about it. My group would like to know how he is going to deal with the banks. At the moment when things go wrong, the housing corporations have to bring the money together, and if things go completely wrong, the Empire and the municipalities have to contribute the money, but the banks remain out of the question. That's impossible, isn't it? I agree with the Minister when he says that the WSW and the Authority should be better coordinated. Not only to improve cooperation, but also to reverse bureaucracy. But why does the Minister charge the corporations with more bureaucracy? I'm talking about the two different ways to show the value of real estate: if the business value and the value is in rented. Can the Minister explain this? Does this mean that the WSW must switch to calculating the market value in the rented state? That market value is about 40% above the operating value. On paper, the corporations suddenly seem much richer. This could mean that the Minister could also raise more tax money from housing corporations, more than the 1.7 billion he is already collecting. Are you sure that's right? Or isn't it meant to charge the housing corporations with even higher taxes? Speaking of taxation, I understand that the Minister also wants to raise a premium because of the backward position of the Empire and as an equivalent to the risks facing the Empire. Is the Minister still planning to do that? And if so, doesn't that generate a build-up of different taxes for the tenants? Because the rents are no longer low, because the measures taken by this cabinet have only made them higher and higher. Finally, the sale of social housing. If corporations go bankrupt, housing corporations may sell the social housing not so much to other corporations but to the market. Is the Minister prepared to include a clause stating that, when a housing corporation goes bankrupt, housing cannot be excluded from the housing corporation, but can only be sold to other corporations? This way we keep the stock of social housing within the housing corporation sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u33	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the WSW. So I will not talk about the asylum seekers. Our solution to this is, of course, to close the border. So I'm done with my input on that point. The PVV agrees with the analysis made by the Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations on the role of the WSW in the enormous problems that have arisen in the case of the unhindered housing corporations. The Committee's recommendations should therefore be fully taken on board and implemented with regard to the PVV. The first recommendation concerns "the spending control of loans secured by the WSW'. The Minister writes in his letter that WSW will have to draw up policy rules. How's that going? When will these policies come? How clear and clear will they be? A second recommendation concerns the strengthening of the role of those behind the WSW. As far as strengthening that role is concerned, I would like to hear the Minister speak clearly. In his letter, the Minister lists a number of measures. The most important one is that the objective of the WSW has been widened so that the financial interests of the Empire and the municipalities should be explicitly respected in the financing of authorised institutions by the WSW. I think that is an unclear wording. Is the Minister prepared to serve the wine here in plain order? The third, and perhaps most important, recommendation is it under the supervision of the Minister placing the WSW. The Minister opts for an indirect construction, namely through the Authority's housing corporations. For this reason, the Minister states that the responsibility of the WSW should not be undermined. Why would supervision undermine or undermine responsibility? In short, the Minister partly responds to the direction in which the recommendations point, but this is not clear enough for the PVV. A private organisation that manages public money needs to be monitored very clearly and transparently. Is the Minister prepared to take control of the supervision itself rather than through the Authority's housing corporations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u34	Mr Madlener raises a very valid point. Monitoring has been a core recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry. If we all find that the Minister should not become too intertwined with the day-to-day policy of the WSW, and if we believe that an independent, powerful integral supervisor, such as the Authority's housing corporations, should also oversee the WSW, does Mr Madlener agree with me that you should position that supervisor much more powerfully than is the case with that tick club, the ILT?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u35	The PVV has a clear preference for the real recommendation, namely to "place directly under the supervision of the Minister." We do not share the Minister's justification for not doing so. "View" is something other than "sitting on the chair." Of course, that divorce is very clear. If Mr Van Vliet asks if I think it would be better for another stronger club to supervise if it was not the minister, I say: rather a stronger supervisor than a weaker supervisor. The problems of housing corporations are known to everyone; this has gotten completely out of hand. As far as we're concerned, the broom goes through the whole sector. We want to split the corporations into much smaller corporations, much closer to the tenant, and we also want to give the tenant much more control. I'm afraid I don't see any of that coming. Mr Van Vliet's question was clear. Our answer to this is that, of course, we are always in favour of a stronger supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u36	So much for the Chamber's term. During the suspension, the Minister can give some thought to the answers to the many questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Vliet, whom I congratulate on the ability to say so much in one minute, rightly pointed out that in the survey there were many critical words devoted to the role of the WSW in recent years, and that in the market there was useful use and abuse of the fact that there was not only a guarantee from the corporations among themselves, which means that the account ends up with the tenants, but also with the State. He said that it was therefore essential to change the relationship between the State and the WSW. This led Mr van der Linde to table an amendment to the House Act. It's been accepted, too. It states: make sure that there is also a public-law guarantee of the relationship between the State and the Guarantee Fund. That is also the intention I put to the Chamber in my letter of 30 October. I have already made sure that the private law relationship between the State and the WSW has been strengthened. To date, this is actually the only relationship there is, namely a back-up agreement. That back-up agreement has already been tightened up and, at my request, the statutes of the Guarantee Fund have also been strengthened. I shall now turn to the specific questions that have been raised. What a public record adds is very important: how is the supervision of the WSW regulated? In addition, ensure a fit and clean test, which also applies to the Board and the supervisors of the Guarantee Fund. So that public guarantee really adds something concrete. For me and also for the Chamber, if I have heard you all like this, there is reason to make the necessary haste. A lot of questions have been asked. I'll deal with them by questioner. Mr Van Vliet and other spokesmen also commented on this in the "How is it possible for the Guarantee Fund to work with the company value of housing, while the authority assumes the market value?'. Mr Van Vliet will recall that the Committee of Inquiry has pointed out that there have been quite a number of disputes between the Guarantee Fund and the Authority. The relationships are now better, but on parts there is still a difference of opinion. The business value actually indicates the present value of the rental income of a property, and the market value indicates the value of a property when selling. We have included the market value in the law, because in the context of the assessment of State aid, which is yet another European obligation, the market value must in any case be used. So we don't even have a choice, the market value has to be used. That's why the authority checks it out. The Guarantee Fund says: yes, but in the context of a corporation's earning capital we are interested in the value of the company. I asked both parties to look at this together. I hope that they will get out of there, but if they are not, then at some point I will make a decision and let the Chamber know it. Once again, the market value component is in the law and, under European regulations, I cannot interfere with that. Mr Van Vliet, and with him a few more speakers, further asked whether the position of the authority, the supervisor, was secured. He and Mr Madlener asked why supervision was not placed with the Minister. It was also asked whether the ILT was the right place, partly in the light of the Fyra survey. In this case, too, I will take the Chamber back in history. If the solution were an independent supervisor, being a ZBO, there would have been no problems. After all, at the time of the incidents which Mr Van Vliet and his committee investigated, the Central Fund for Housing was a Zbo. It seems that this was not a sufficient guarantee to ensure that supervision at all times is sufficiently sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u38	The Central Fund may have been a Zbo, but it had no perseverance and it was not an integral supervisor. It had too few tasks and too few powers. So that equation is still limping.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u39	That does not alter the observation that the Central Fund was a Zbo. In the Housing Act, we have increased its powers and tasks. The Zbo status has been taken from him by now. In that sense, it's a bypassed station. That was part of the Housing Act. Having organisations with a ZBO status is always unhappy in a democracy. The position of the Chamber in relation to a Zbo is very difficult. A Zbo is very independent from the Chamber and the Minister. That is why such an organisation is really not accessible. As far as I am concerned, it is an exception which can be defended in a number of cases, but which, in general, does not make sense for a supervisor, who is actually an inspection. The Education Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate are not ZBOs either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u40	One of the lessons from the survey was right that we needed an integral, completely independent supervisor. It was precisely a supervisor who gathered all the supervision. It had to be distanced from the sector and from the government, so that there could no longer be a mix between policy and supervision. We need to learn those lessons now. The ILT is a digging club. Let us now make that a ZBO, but with perseverance and complete supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u41	We've arranged for the complete oversight of the House Act. In the past, people's housing and financial supervision were separate. They have been brought together with the Authority. The decision on ZBO status has already been taken at the time of the adoption of the Housing Act. The ink is hardly dry, so it seems strange to me to question it right now. In that law, we also made provision for the Authority to have a strong independent position. It has the power to publish documents independently to the outside world and thus to the Chamber. I'm not gonna stripe it or scratch it. The Director of the Authority has direct access to me as the Minister responsible. The position of the Chamber is secured by the fact that the Minister, although he will not intervene in individual cases, is responsible for the functioning of an inspection. In this case, therefore, that is the Housing Authority. So more than a Zbo, the Chamber is in position. That is why this choice has been made. Indeed, the Fyra survey contains critical comments on the ILT. The cabinet will, of course, respond to the Fyra survey. I feel politically responsible for the Authority. I will not intervene in individual cases, but I will ensure that there is very serious monitoring. The Chamber has already noticed a few times that when it asked me to intervene in individual cases, I said: no, I do not, because you and I wanted an independent inspection. Mr Van Vliet asked how he dealt with the recommendation to have the Guarantee Fund's audit carried out per investment project rather than on the basis of the balance sheet. This is one of the elements of the policy rules for which the Guarantee Fund is going to make a proposal. A construction has been chosen in which the Guarantee Fund remains an independent foundation. So it itself comes up with a proposal for the policy rules. The Minister then has the power to approve or reject them. I shall now turn to the questions that have been raised about further intervention in the policy rules. This is typically part of those policy rules. I expect the Guarantee Fund to come forward with this in the spring. I agree with Mr Van Vliet that at least you should start assessing corporations that deserve financial attention at project level. I imagine you're assessing very solid corporations at balance sheet level, but there's gonna be a time when you have to assess each project. The right order is that the Guarantee Fund itself comes up with that policy rule first. Mr Van der Linde praised the changes that the WSW itself has already introduced. I agree with him, but that does not alter the fact that I believe we also agree that this should be secured further. Mr Van der Linde was the first to ask others why I propose that the policy rules should be adopted in the case of ministerial rules rather than in the case of AMvB. I have just indicated that the pure order is that the Guarantee Fund itself first comes up with policy rules, for example on the subject I was talking about with Mr Van Vliet. Of course, it may be that the Guarantee Fund does not come up with rules soon enough. I'd be sorry to hear that. But if that's the case, I can't approve or disapprove. Then I actually only have nuclear options like firing the Supervisory Board. I have already said that I think that is a very nuclear option. In such a case, you can get into a nasty stalemate. There are situations where that could play. They are not playing at the moment, but I can illustrate what I am thinking of. There is a wish in the Chamber, which I heard again today in the debate, to work with open data as much as possible. Suppose I don't get a proposal and the Chamber and I think this should happen. Then there might come a time when I'm gonna make that rule. I don't have that authority right now. In addition, it would be good if we were to move to vertical supervision in the short term. I have just mentioned that in the past there were the necessary discussions between the supervisor, at the time the Central Fund, and the Guarantee Fund. I have already informed the Chamber that, in order to put an end to this, I think it is logical that the Authority is also a supervisor of the Guarantee Fund. I know that housing corporations would like to see these rules become the same, because then they would not have to provide two different data. Here too, I hope that the Guarantee Fund, in consultation with the Housing Authority, for example, will come up with a policy rule that I can say is a good idea; agreement. If that rule doesn't come or it takes a very long time, then there can be a moment when I'm going to make it. For example, I have already mentioned three examples of situations where it is necessary for the Minister to be able to intervene. Then the question is whether you do this by ministerial arrangement or by AMvB. In both cases, I opt for full transparency. In the case of a ministerial arrangement, too, my choice would be simply to send it to the Chamber so that it can influence it. The reason I have a preference for a ministerial arrangement over an AMvB is purely time. An AMvB is a long procedure: veil, Council of State and then publish. Then you're really months away. A ministerial arrangement is a faster procedure. If I can agree with the Chamber that the ministerial arrangements simply go to the Chamber and that the Chamber will find me if it does not agree, I will have the profit of time and the Chamber will still be in position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u42	I understand what the Minister is saying, but he's assuming that there's a need for constant reassignment. The Labour Party is thinking of an option in which we allow vertical supervision by the Housing Authority and the WSW to work well on the points indicated by the Minister. We give a certain period of time; let's say a year. There will be no ministerial arrangement in that year. The Minister will consider whether he needs a ministerial arrangement only if he understands how both bodies intend to regulate this vertical supervision. The Labour Party feels much more confident about that. That gives more room for the Chamber and prevents pinching hats for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u43	If Mr De Vries puts it this way: do not come up with a ministerial arrangement until the Guarantee Fund has come up with proposals in consultation with the Housing Authority, I agree with that. However, I have an ambition to complete this in the coming year, i.e. 2016, and to complete those policy rules. In doing so, we are responding to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. If no proposals have been made during 2016 or not of such quality that I have to do something with them, such a moment may arise in the course of 2016. Once again, I will send the Chamber that ministerial arrangement. I would also like to make it clear that in the coming year we will have to complete this whole process of monitoring housing corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u44	If the Minister puts it that way, we'll be very close together. Then the Minister could undertake not to make that ministerial arrangement within a period of several months or one year and to await the results of both parties in terms of vertical monitoring. If that is satisfactory and he does not need this ministerial arrangement or less, he could waive it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u45	We are close to each other, if Mr De Vries does allow me an escape option, because, of course, there can be an unforeseen situation, so to speak in a week, for which I have to take responsibility. I just indicated my timetable. I think we should have completed this trajectory by the end of 2016. If I find that there is enough progress in the first half of 2016, because we are constantly talking, I also have no reason to act. If so, of course I'll let the Chamber know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u46	Then we agree. There will be no ministerial arrangement for mid-2016. The Minister will then determine whether sufficient arrangements have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u47	Save in the event of an emergency, the Chamber will, of course, be informed immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u48	What could be a reason not to use the AMvB procedure in 2016? Can the Minister give an example of an urgent situation in which a ministerial arrangement must be implemented so that he cannot use the procedure for an AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u49	Of course, I cannot foresee all the emergencies, but quite a few things have happened in the corporate world. The choice between AMvB and ministerial arrangement is not one for 2016, but for eternity, to change the law. I find that unwise, because you can't do anything you didn't foresee when hitting an AMvB, as it's called, in the meantime. That means you always have to go through a very long journey. In my view, it is perfectly possible to leave the Chamber in a position, with my undertaking that this ministerial arrangement will be submitted in good time. We don't lose speed with that. Mr Van der Linde asked about a number of incentives which the Committee of Inquiry suggested to introduce into the system, such as first loss for the municipality, the possibility of tariff differentiation by the Guarantee Fund or a greater incentive for banks. I am seriously examining these options, including with the help of the Dutch Bank. There are advantages, in terms of more careful management of risky projects, but also a price in the form of higher interest rates for a number of corporations and possibly also regional securities. Mr De Vries pointed out that in shrinking areas it could be structurally more expensive to borrow than in other parts of the country. I really think that we should map these effects well. In the coming spring I will give the Chamber an overview of all these measures, because they also have an effect on each other. I will therefore consider whether or not to apply it. The same applies to the guarantee fee to the State for the rear deposit, which Mr De Vries specifically asked for. At the moment, the budgetary rules require that, if the Empire guarantees, a risk compensation is received for this. For example, we have also introduced this for the Home Guarantee Fund. That is in fact the issue of mortgages. The private person who uses such a deposit pays for it. We've all weighed that up. That private individual doesn't say "I'm already paying a private house fee, why do I have to pay a guarantee commission now?'. Perhaps the private individual does say so, but in the end we did not take that into account, considering everything. We are simply following our own budgetary rules here. I will inform the Chamber in the coming spring how the cabinet will deal with this, taking into account everything. After all, we must look at the effects in conjunction with the other measures I have just mentioned. A motion by Mr Monasch has been adopted in which, if I put it correctly, it is not so much said that it should not be allowed at all, but that it should not be at the expense of investment capacity. So I will come up with a response to the overall package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u50	I'll go back to the argumentation. I don't think the comparison with the buyer is entirely accurate. When the landlord levy was introduced, it was clearly argued that the guarantee would bring all kinds of benefits to the corporations. That would justify a landlord's tax. If you do that again, you'll do it twice. I would like the Minister to read the reasons for the landlord's tax in the implementation of the Monasch motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u51	I'll be able to get those motivations up in a minute. The justification was given in a context in which the cabinet had to take a number of nasty measures: in a difficult financial situation. Housing corporations and other landlords of social housing benefit from the rent allowance. That is why this tax not only affects housing corporations but also other landlords. The rent supplement is now around 3 billion. That really is a lot more than the whole levy. Other instruments apply specifically to housing corporations. One is the State guarantee and the other is that housing corporations generally value the land well below market value. They will in fact receive State aid along that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u52	The housing corporations also enjoy the shelter because they provide social housing. Does the Minister agree with me that this has also been a reason for the creation of the back-up position? Isn't that an additional reason not to tax them even more, so that the tenants don't have to pay an even higher rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mr Bashir is right that this guarantee exists because we all consider it important for social housing to take place. I enjoy it when Mr Bashir fills up against taxes. Any form of tax or tax, whether it be income tax, VAT or a landlord's tax which is partly collected by the corporations themselves by working more efficiently and which is partly translated into a rent increase, has the effect that the Dutch citizen himself can spend less. Any form of tax or tax therefore means that people in the Netherlands can spend less money. I agree with Mr Bashir that you should be very critical of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u54	It is very good that we can find each other at the specific point where tenants do not have to pay any more taxes. But what does the Minister do? He certainly raises taxes. First there was the landlord's tax, now tenants are saddled with a new tax, which is called "premium." At the same time, the Minister says that he is in favour of us all ensuring that there is social housing. I therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to reduce the landlord's tax at least by the same amount, so that tenants do not have to look at even higher charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u55	I have indicated that I will come up with the answer to this question in the spring. In fact, this is what the Monasch motion is asking for. I really want to weigh this against, first of all, the widely accepted budgetary policy, which, in my view, means that there must be compensation for guarantees and, secondly, the whole package of measures outlined by the Committee of Inquiry to bring back risk incentives and their effects. In fact, this is also a risk incentive. I would then like to come to the Chamber with that whole package and make a proposal to the Chamber. At that time, you will undoubtedly all have a clear opinion on this. I was with Mr Van der Linde's questions. He asked me why it is not possible to convert the foundation form of a housing corporation into an e.g. or a nv. The law now states that an approved institution is a non-profit-making institution with a form of foundation or association. This would therefore require an amendment of the law. This doesn't seem very obvious to me, because a nv or e.g. will have a profit motive because it also has shareholders, although I don't know the exact legal definition. Now to Mr De Vries' questions. We have just discussed the question of the trade-offs between the ministerial regime and the AMvB in detail. We also discussed the position of the Housing Authority at the ILT. Mr De Vries asked how the tenants' position in the present measures was secured. The rather acidic lesson of the survey was that first of all the tenants pay the bill for things that go wrong with housing corporations. At Vestia we saw very concretely that the rents had to be raised immediately to deal with the financial problems there. And after Vestia, we also see very concretely that if something like this does not pay enough internally and then a levy on the sector is to be imposed, there will be less investment capacity and that it will also be an incentive to increase the rent. The prevention of new Vestias, such as Geertruidenberg, for which there is now a sector tax and of other major misses is therefore in the immediate interest of the tenants. I think we can all support this type of measure. Mr De Vries also asked about the disclosure of information from the Guarantee Fund. The Guarantee Fund makes information available to the municipality about the corporations for which the municipality is behind, so that the municipality also has an insight into the risks it runs. We are in consultation with Aedes and the VNG on the indicators of investment capacity. This calls for some discussion, not so much because it is so difficult to make such an indicator, but because one has to agree on which indicators are real. The interests of Aedes and the VNG may be slightly different in this respect. That's why it's taking a little longer than I'd hoped. In addition, the supervisory authority's figures are publicly available. It publishes a number of ratings of corporations. Thus, wider information is also available along that route. Mr Van der Linde has already asked in the past how we can go further along the route of open data. I share that wish with him. Only if there is a very good reason, this kind of information should be non-public, but fortunately a lot of information is already public. Mr De Vries asked how the people's housing benefits are guaranteed. They are not out of the picture, but have been put in the hands of one supervisor. It was also an explicit wish of the Chamber not to keep things separate any longer. In doing so, we have agreed on a number of priorities, including the housing of status holders, elderly people, energy performance and affordability. Mr Ronnes asked if there are areas where all housing corporations are weak. That's not my image. We can follow that through the numbers of the Housing Authority. The financial situation can, of course, change over time. It is therefore also permissible for another housing corporation to invest in such an area and thus ensure that the necessary housing is added, should that be the case. At the moment, however, we do not have the impression that there are regions where all housing corporations are weak. Mr Ronnes asked if you could say in general that small housing corporations are doing better than large ones. I don't think you can put it that way. Indeed, there are a number of large housing corporations under enhanced supervision, including Vestia. However, it is also often corporations that have or had a major task in the context of urban renewal. They have therefore set up very large investment programmes in recent years. There are also small corporations under tighter supervision. Mr Ronnes asked where the money from the Central Fund was parked. It's parked near the Empire and it's part of my budget. He also asked how housing status holders affects the risks that the Guarantee Fund runs. The Guarantee Fund simply uses its own risk assessment. This risk assessment has not been adapted as we are faced with the arrival of large numbers of status holders. I am advanced with discussions with Aedes and the VNG on the realisation of extra sober and temporary living facilities. We also opt for sober, because the investment will be lower. The investment can also be done faster than when you build very traditional houses. However, the criteria of the Guarantee Fund do not lapse and are not relaxed. Mr Bashir asked whether banks would be dealt with if things went wrong. Again, the new Housing Act is crucial. A housing corporation couldn't actually go bankrupt. That has led to all kinds of unhealthy behavior. We now explicitly no longer say that a housing corporation should not go bankrupt. A very important reason for me is that the division between the social part, the SGEI part, and the free sector part, the non-DAEB part, can be reduced as much as possible if problems arise in the non-DAEB part, in the development of the project. That is most true if there really is a legal split, but even if there is an administrative split, it will be even easier, with a little goodwill, to keep those risks apart than in the old situation. In the future, therefore, a bank that has provided finance will be much more likely to lose its money. This does not apply to funding provided purely for social activities. Then there is a WSW guarantee. That guarantee does not mean that the corporation will not go bankrupt, but means that the loan will be repaid. We are doing this very consciously to ensure that enough cheap loans are available to the banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u56	On this subject, it is often suggested that interest rates increase when banks are at greater risk. Does the Minister have any information on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u57	Yes. I think a report has also been sent to the Chamber. Deloitte, among others, has carried out research on this subject, including at the request of Aedes. That research confirms that this is the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u58	If a major clean-up is needed, as is the case with Vestia at the moment, it will also cost the community a lot of money. The question is what is ultimately cheaper. Is it cheaper to put the banks at greater risk and thus pay higher interest rates, or is it cheaper that once in a while, if we have not paid attention, there will be a clean-up where the community and the tenants pay a lot of money? Is there any information on this? This information will enable us to choose whether or not we like the current system better than a system in which, for example, banks will pay 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u59	That is one of the questions that Mr Van der Linde has also asked: is it wise to place a risk on banks? That is what I am investigating, including in consultation with the Nederlandsche Bank. This is precisely what Mr Bashir is talking about. There is an incentive for the bank to give wise credit, but the rates for housing corporations will rise because that risk will be priced. In addition, the kind of bank plays a role. The banks we are talking about in the financing of the social part are the Dutch Waterschapbank and the Bank Dutch Municipalities, because the other banks are not able to compete with these banks when it comes to State guaranteed loans. These banks are not entirely free to lend if there is no full state guarantee. That consideration is also part of this. That is why I am asking for a little more time; next spring I will send a reasoned reply to the Chamber. Mr Bashir asked about the valuation of the market, the valuation of the holding and the payment of the premium. Those points have been raised. Mr Bashir also asked whether it could be agreed that, in the event of bankruptcy, only housing should be sold to housing corporations. I would find that very unwise. At that time, a trustee must assess what is in the interest of creditors. The curator will therefore have to look for the most paying party. That most paying party knows that if a property is a social rental house with tenants in it, the tenants simply fall under the rent protection and that the sale doesn't change anything about it. So the tenant simply remains protected by the rental legislation. We would damage the security system by choosing not to go for the highest bidder in such a situation. I hope that this situation will not happen again, but if it is, the task must be to minimise the damage to the community as much as possible. Mr Madlener asked when there would be policy rules that would also allow for the control of loans per project. I have indicated that I hope this will happen next spring. If it takes too long, there will come a time when Mr De Vries and I will agree that I myself must draw up policy rules. Mr Madlener raised a rather critical question as to why the guarantee fund's statutes extended the objective. This has been done because the objective was initially - and I say it disrespectfully - to ensure that loans are made to housing corporations as cheap as possible. I liked it if the goal was to reduce the risks to the bail. The VNG very much agreed with me. So we have only included that in the statutes. That was also the quickest way, because the legislation we are talking about could not be implemented in the short term. So this really happened in the interests of the tenant and the taxpayer. We have also just had the discussion about putting the SSC under the supervision of the Minister. The Court has rightly advocated independent supervision in the treatment of the Housing Act. So it wouldn't be under my supervision. But in its present form, it is my political responsibility in an independent form. That's why this construction was chosen, not the Zbo construction. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u60	Fine, then we'll move on to the second term. As this will speed up the debate and put it at a dramatic stage, we are going to use a new President. That's Mrs Vermeij. If Mr Van Vliet walks to the chair, we will not lose a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u61	Mr. Chairman. Welcome to this debate. I have two motions for resolutions on points which I believe the Minister has not answered adequately. The first motion concerns the management of financial risks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Social Housing Fund (WSW) has in the past played an adverse role in the emergence of financial problems in housing corporations;]] [[Whereas until 2007 the WSW was able to apply control over the use of secured funds per project on the basis of a guarantee per project but subsequently to a guarantee for a period and over the entire guaranteed balance sheet of the approved institution;]] [[Whereas this has not contributed to the management of financial risks by housing corporations;]] [[Whereas both the WSW and the Minister are on the way to significantly improving and strengthening the role of the WSW;]] [[Whereas, in this context, the WSW is still in the process of monitoring the use of secured loan funds;]] [[Whereas it is not possible to see why checks on the use of secured funds should not be carried out by authorised institutions or should be carried out only on a limited basis;]] [[calls on the Government, in its consultation with the WSW, to direct control of the use of secured loans per project per corporation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-403]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u62	I'll read you the final motion soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the report "Very far from home" of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations showed that the social housing sector needs a strong, independent, integrated supervisor in the form of a ZBO;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of one amendment in the new Housing Act, an Authority on Housing Corporations was ultimately established within the Inspection Environment and Transport;]] [[Whereas the sector has a high level of awareness that this supervisor operates on the basis of a culture of ticking and is not an authoritative institution, as intended by the Committee of Inquiry;]] [[Whereas the recent Fyra survey report shows that ILT is indeed fulfilling its responsibilities on the basis of a culture of ticking;]] [[whereas it further reduces the authority of the Authority for Housing Corporations and confirms this by the original author of the amendment;]] [[Whereas this supervisor is now also responsible for the supervision of the WSW;]] [[Calls on the Government to reconsider the position of the supervisor within the meaning of the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations and to inform the Court of Justice in the first half of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-404]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u63	The PVV prefers that supervision is directly subject to the Minister. The Chamber can then exercise control over the supervisor, the minister. Mr Van Vliet's motion calls for a stronger supervisor. I think that's a good alternative. But of course the Minister did consider very well that he should have control over the way in which it is monitored. And the more independent you make supervision, for example through a ZBO construction, the more difficult it becomes. Now you say in your motion: it must be a Zbo, and therefore there is little influence of the minister on the supervisor, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u64	Eventually the minister is system responsible, so he always keeps a role in how things are with a Zbo. Members of parliament are therefore free to ask questions about the functioning of a supervisory authority at any time, even if it is a ZBO. All I'm saying is that a ZBO with an integral power of perseverance at a distance is truly independent and can build authority to the sector independently of the image of ILT, as the sector itself points out. That is what I want and then you are acting entirely in the spirit of the Committee of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mr Van Vliet says: he must have authority. We agree. You have to have authority as a supervisor, but if things don't go well, the minister must also be able to intervene. Mr Van Vliet actually says that this should not weaken. That aspect must not be reduced in the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u66	If the Minister remains systemically responsible for the whole social housing sector, the Chamber can also keep a finger on the wrist with a supervisor, even if it is a ZBO, who does not perform his duties properly. I can't imagine that once you have that status, with perseverance and integral. Still, we can keep the finger on the wrist. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u67	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his answers. I have listened carefully to the consideration of putting a ministerial arrangement instead of an AMvB in the proposal. I have made it quite clear that the application of the ministerial regime has been claused into situations where the WSW does not deliver or supplies very late. This will ensure both transparency and speed. I can live with that. I am concerned about the fact that we are now going to reopen the whole discussion on monitoring. We talked about this for six months and there were several factors. It had to be independent, rather than Zbo, and we have joined the idea of the Education Inspectorate and of great independence, but ultimately the Minister is responsible. Because it has operational advantages, we said: put the Authority housing corporations in the ILT. That means a joint coffee lady, but it does have its own sign on the door, if I can sum it up domestically. Frankly, I think that people in the corporate sector are now surprised that we are going to have this discussion all over again. I would like to call on colleagues to conclude this discussion. The mere fact that we all have new spokesmen does not mean that we have to do everything over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u68	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers given. The Labour Party considers tightening supervision to be a necessary step. We support the fact that there is also a public-law step following the private-law step. We believe that public supervision should preferably be regulated exclusively in an AMvB, because we believe that this also helps to clearly separate the responsibilities: the policy of the minister, the implementation of the WSW and the supervision of the Authority housing corporations. We know that the Minister is not yet sufficiently confident that final agreements will be reached. That is why we have advocated giving the Authority housing corporations a year's chance to reach these agreements. If this succeeds satisfactorily, it is in favour of abandoning a ministerial arrangement and regulating supervision solely through an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u69	Mr. Chairman. I was somewhat questioned by the Minister's reaction to whether or not to go for a ministerial arrangement instead of an AMvB. In fact, we have not heard sufficiently valid examples of situations where this would occur. So we choose to go for a General Measure of Governance. That is why we are tabling a motion in this direction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that further rules on risk management are currently being prepared in the light of the safeguards available for the Social Housing Guarantee Fund;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber the detailed rules for risk management in the light of the safeguards available for the Social Housing Fund solely by means of a General Administrative Measure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-405]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u70	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I think it's a good thing that he always answers all the questions neatly, even though we disagree. I don't always see that with all the rulers. In any case, that is worth a compliment. In the second motion by Mr Van Vliet, the motion in part No. 404, I see: considering that the recent Fyra survey report shows that the ILT is indeed fulfilling its responsibilities on the basis of a culture of ticking. There's a lot you can say, but not that this isn't right. This is just true. It's what we've found. Organising monitoring as proposed is also not in line with what the Committee of Inquiry has recommended. Mr Van der Linde may well say that we have been discussed, but as far as I am concerned we have not been discussed. I think there is still much to be said about this, so I would like to suggest to the Minister that we take a very close look at this. I have another motion on the fact that the banks are currently catching money, but are not actually at risk. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both housing corporations are at risk from the guarantee system by the Social Housing Guarantee Fund and the public laggards being the Empire and municipalities;]] [[whereas banks have advantages in interest rates on loans, but are also riskless;]] [[noting that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations advised banks to carry a financial risk;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways in which banks can contribute to the financial risks associated with the provision of secured loans and to involve this in further developing the regulatory framework for the Social Housing Guarantee Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-406]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u71	Finally, I would like to say a few words about the tax which the Minister refers to as 'premium' for recovery. In any event, I assume that the Minister will carry out Mr Monasch's motion adopted by the Chamber and that the landlord's levy will be reduced by the amount of the premium for recovery. Otherwise the tax will be increased again for the tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u72	Mr Madlener gave up his second term. The Minister would like to wait until he has all the motions. To that end, I shall suspend the sittings for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u73	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u74	Mr. Chairman. In the first motion by Mr Van Vliet, the motion in part No. 403, the government is invited to direct, in its consultation with the WSW, the control of the use of secured loans per project per corporation. In the first term, I said that I think this is desirable in situations where the financial position of the corporation gives rise to this, but I can imagine that the rules in financially sound corporations can be a little more flexible. Anyway, I announced that I would like to report to the Chamber on this next spring. I am in a hurry to do so, because it is about the policy rules. I would therefore ask Mr Van Vliet to hold his motion until I come back to these policy rules next spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u75	I am, of course, concerned with the final result, so we will come back to it when we start the debate together in the spring. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u76	At the request of Mr Van Vliet, I propose his motion (29453), No. 403). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u77	In the second motion by Mr Van Vliet, the motion in part No. 404 is addressed to the supervisory authority's position. The government is invited to reconsider the position of the supervisor within the meaning of the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u78	Maybe it's a little unusual, Mr. Chairman, but I'm prepared to amend the request. Could it be now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u79	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u80	I would like to change the operative part of the motion in such a way as to require the government to further analyse the position of the supervisor, including in the light of the results of the Fyra survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u81	The Van Vliet motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the report "Very far from home" of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations showed that the social housing sector needs a strong, independent, integrated supervisor in the form of a ZBO;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of one amendment in the new Housing Act, an Authority on Housing Corporations was ultimately established within the Inspection Environment and Transport;]] [[Whereas the sector has a high level of awareness that this supervisor operates on the basis of a culture of ticking and is not an authoritative institution, as intended by the Committee of Inquiry;]] [[Whereas the recent Fyra survey report shows that ILT is indeed fulfilling its responsibilities on the basis of a culture of ticking;]] [[whereas it further reduces the authority of the Authority for Housing Corporations and confirms this by the original author of the amendment;]] [[Whereas this supervisor is now also responsible for the supervision of the WSW;]] [[Calls on the Government to further analyse the position of the supervisor in the light of the results of the Fyra survey and to inform the Chamber in the first half of 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 404 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u82	Yes. In the first place, my answer would indeed be that the suspension is based on the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry, but it is not in the area of ZBO status. This point has also been extensively discussed here and finally put in an amendment to the House Act. That law is really fresh. I do not think it is right to change the law so quickly without us having very convincing signals that it would not work. The signal from the housing corporations, in legal terms the undersupervised ones, is important, but not from the most objective source. I would point out to the Chamber, but the Chamber already knew that banks have a tendency to complain about supervisors and that this is no reason for us to change supervision immediately. The Fyra survey is still provided with a reaction from the cabinet and no doubt still discussed extensively. I do not think it is purely a matter of amending a law that has just come into force. For that reason, I have to make the motion in part no. 404, also in appropriate form, dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u83	That is precisely why I ask in the motion to analyse the position of the supervisor, partly in the light of the results of the Fyra survey. The request is therefore not to change the case already. However, I would like the government to take this seriously, now that the Fyra survey has said something about it. The Minister's opinion is the Minister's opinion, but I would like to see my motion put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u84	The motion has been changed, but has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u85	Mr Van der Linde has not tabled a motion and we agreed. In fact, Mr De Vries confirmed once again the agreement we made with each other that I will leave the initiative first with the WSW in the coming year, but that I will not rule out my intervention if necessary. The motion tabled by Mr Ronnes, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ronnes, on behalf of It invites the government to submit the detailed rules for risk management for the Social Housing Fund to the Chamber only by means of an AMvB. I have already said that this is always a time-consuming procedure. That goes for now and for eternity, so not only for 2016. In my view, this would greatly limit a minister's ability to intervene quickly if necessary, regardless of whether I am that minister, or whether that is my successor. I do not think what is proposed is necessary either, and I have heard my undertaking that such a ministerial arrangement will always go to the Chamber so that the Chamber can send it if it so wishes. This motion by Mr Ronnes must therefore be discouraged. Mr Bashir has tabled a motion on item No. 406. It invites the government to examine ways in which banks can contribute to the financial risks associated with the provision of secured loans, and to involve them in the further development of the regulation of the Social Housing Guarantee Fund. I told you, I'm doing one of those studies. So the motion is basically policy support. The report will come to the Chamber this spring. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-12-tweedekamer-11.u86	I would like to thank the Minister for Housing and National Service for his contribution to this debate. I would also like to thank Members and those who have listened or watched this debate. We shall vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
