ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. According to the CDA, the threat posed by criminal motorcycle gangs must be crushed. In addition to criminal activities, they cause social fear and unrest that we cannot tolerate. The Minister agrees, because he tweeted last week that undermining is not tolerated. I therefore believe that the Minister should take the lead on this subject, because with the motor gangs there is a danger of a waterbed effect. A ban or approach in one place has the effect of shifting it. This means that it is not a local problem, but that it needs to be tackled regionally or nationally. During the debate on 12 February, according to the Minister for Security and Justice, there was no problem. He literally said: the approach of outlaw motorbikers is carried out quickly. Even until last Friday, the Minister of Security and Justice held on to his previous position: no, there is no need for additional capacity in Limburg. On Pentecost Day, all of a sudden, this seemed to be changing. The Minister has promised Limburg the agenda needed to tackle criminal motorcycle gangs. However, the mayors see it as an empty promise, as a cigar from their own box. The CDA also wants extra agents for Limburg, but how will the Minister arrange this? Monitoring and enforcement should be stepped up where criminal activities take place by members and new members are recruited. We know where that is needed. The Minister also knows that, because this has been demonstrated by a 2014 National Police report on the problem of motorcycle gangs. The CDA wants to know if the Minister will strengthen the Limburg detective system in a structural way and how he will do this. If the National Police are pushed around, there'll be a hole somewhere else. Is it true that national police support is particularly temporary in nature? For one action, a couple of cops come in and they leave right after that. I would also like to take up a commitment made by the Minister at the time in the debate on 19 December 2014. He said that he saw no reason to investigate the possibility of banning motorcycle gangs, as in Germany. He said literally: we have our instruments and we tackle them on all fronts. The question to this new minister is whether he sees it that way. The mayors and many inhabitants of Limburg notice very little of it. They don't see the threat of motorcycle gangs getting worse. Is the instruments still in order, as the Minister said earlier? The CDA wants these kinds of clubs banned. How serious is the D.A. gonna look at this? If there is to be a change in the law for a civil ban, will the Minister make haste with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Oskam for asking these questions. I am glad that, after the press conference I gave yesterday in Limburg, I also have the opportunity here in the Chamber to clarify my position on how to deal with criminal motorcycle gangs. Let me say first of all that I do not fully recognize myself in the image outlined by Mr Oskam, namely that the mayors would think that the results of my visit would have been an empty promise, or a cigar from their own box. There is nothing less true. What we did yesterday is to listen carefully to what local government is doing on this complex issue. I spoke well with the state's attorney's office and with the police. To the concerns expressed in Limburg about dealing with criminal motorcycle gangs, and especially the threat posed by the criminal motorcycle gangs to our rule of law, I do not remove anything at all, but in a sense it is nothing new either. We have known for a long time that my predecessor also knew that the criminal motorcycle gangs in the Netherlands are a great risk to our rule of law. It is also right that we have a successful approach in this area, which we will continue and intensify. Mr. Oskam asked if there was any structural strengthening of the investigation. I talked to the police about it extensively yesterday. There are two things that matter. Firstly, I have promised that all the agents needed for incidental actions against criminal motorcycle gangs in the Netherlands will be there. That is nothing new, because that is a continuation and confirmation of the existing policy. Secondly, the Limburg police unit expressed serious concerns about the capacity and the risk of capacity being covered by the agreed standards. I have said that I will work with the department to ensure that this problem does not arise. In this way, the need for capacity in Limburg has been met. This also satisfies the possibility of taking tough occasional action against those criminal motorcycle gangs who are trying to undermine our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The question also included the amendment of the law which makes it possible to ban outlaw gangs, as in Germany. I'll take it with me. The instruments contain a number of possibilities to tackle those biker gangs. That's natural: on top of it. That's what the Minister promised earlier. You can handle it criminally. Then you're gonna need a lot of detective capacity and prosecutors who can handle the cases. It often doesn't come from that, and this means the mayor has to do something. When I speak to the mayors, they point out that they can shut down buildings, but also that they often do so because of insufficient information. What they do is on the border or sometimes across the border, and it is the question of whether that holds up in court. Does the Minister consider that the mayors in the border region and in Limburg have sufficient tools to keep those biker gangs out of the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	First of all, with regard to the ban. I am of the opinion that I also said this last week, and I think that you should primarily consider how to ensure that criminals who ride a motorcycle are locked up as quickly as possible. That's all-- all-- most important. At the same time, yesterday I had a good briefing. I have been convinced that it is also important for local government to ban motorcycle clubs if this is possible, precisely because of the point Mr Oskam is making. The local government asks what it can do against club houses and buildings that come into possession of criminal motorcycle gangs. We have two instruments for this: the criminal ban of a criminal organisation and the civil ban. That last ban has proved successful against the association of paedophiles, Martijn, as Mr Oskam will know. I said yesterday that I would consider whether a legislative amendment would be desirable if it proved that these two elements were not successful. By the way, a legislative amendment takes a year and a half or maybe two years. It could be done much earlier with the existing instruments, but we do need the help of the judge. As Mr Oskam also knows, the judge ruled in 2009 that the Hells Angels should not be banned as a criminal organisation. I have good hope that the outcome will now be different thanks to all the information we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'm tasting a wait-and-see attitude on the Minister's part. If one doesn't succeed, he'll want to see if in the long run... I don't have much faith in that. As director on this issue, the Minister must act more actively. A third issue that has been raised is international cooperation. Especially in Limburg there are gangs from Germany and Belgium. In Germany, however, there is much stricter than in the Netherlands. What can we do if these gangs come to the Netherlands? What results have been achieved in international consultations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	I am glad that Mr Oskam is asking that question. I do not recognize myself in the image that, on the side of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police, let alone my department, there would be a wait-and-see attitude. Nor do I think that this is the image of the drivers I spoke to yesterday, the second Pentecost Day, in Maastricht. I have promised that I will return to Limburg in six or eight weeks to talk to them further and see what progress has been made on this dossier. We can learn from Germany. That seems sensible to me, and we are doing so in a number of areas. I am very soon signing an agreement with my fellow Belgian ministers and a number of German Länder to strengthen cooperation in the field of police, but also in the area of the Public Prosecutor's Office, precisely with a view to criminal motorcycle gangs. I think it is very important that we do this with each other, because criminal motorcycle gangs do not stick to borders. Then why should the police and the justice system do that? That is why this cooperation is extremely important. It is already there in the police field, very intensive, especially in Limburg, but it can be even stronger in the area of the Public Prosecutor's Office and I will soon sign an agreement for that. In addition, two weeks ago, I was able to conclude a meeting at Europol; an international meeting on the initiative of my own department of 15 countries that are experts in the field of criminal motorcycle gangs. This meeting was meant to learn from each other, because you have to deal with it internationally through good cooperation. The same applies to cooperation with the local triangle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	The minister says he's going through with the current approach and he'll change the law if that doesn't work. We already know it doesn't work. Let me give you the example of a mayor who needs to be protected. As a criminal organization, the Hells Angels are very difficult to prohibit. I refer to the case law. Then the question is: why doesn't the Minister change the law already? However, the Minister has promised an occasional approach, which will be reinforced. This also requires that the law can be applied. We have seen so far that this is too difficult. Why doesn't the Minister amend the law and send more agents to Limburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	Firstly, as a result of the German example, I would like to look at what they are doing differently than we are doing in the Netherlands and what the consequences are for the Dutch situation. You need to know exactly what you're talking about and right now I don't have a complete picture. Secondly, I refer to the ban on the criminal organisation. That's only a very small part, but it's an important part of dealing with criminal motorcycle gangs. As far as I'm concerned, we need to focus on what works fastest and most effectively. We have two good instruments: the ban through criminal law and the ban through civil law. I've discussed with the Public Prosecutor that both instruments can be actively deployed, but that's up to the Public Prosecutor. If nothing happens there and it doesn't work, I'll be the first to put the lessons I've learned in Germany into practice, but I'll inform the Chamber about that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	It's like it's just happening right now. We have been talking about this in the Chamber for years and then I hear the Minister say that it is nothing new and that the approach is successful. Where does this minister live, I wonder? For if it were to be so successful, would we not have the escalation that is taking place at the moment, in which even innocent citizens could suffer from the violence that these gentlemen are using because they are generally gentlemen? What is the Minister going to do to make it really successful in the approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	I do not recognize myself in the image that I would give the impression that it is only now being discussed. Mr Oskam has just read quite detailed quotes from my predecessor from 2014. This indicates that we have known this problem for a long time. The Hells Angels have existed for decades as an original organization. I even remember it from my childhood. But the approach and the undermining power of these organisations has become increasingly evident in recent years, and we are also increasingly stronger and better at tackling this. I do not recognize myself in the picture that Mrs Berndsen sketched that nothing would happen at all. That is absolutely not the case. There are regular raids and regular arrests. Bikers are regularly arrested, arrested, prosecuted and convicted. That's what we all stand for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	This Minister is doing a "Setting Up": very big words and, ultimately, not concrete what he comes up with. So I would like to ask the Minister to be specific. How many cops are coming to Limburg? Why not Brabant? There's law-abiding crime there, too. That's where they're dealing with motorcycle gangs. The most important question in this context is: at what cost? Is it that cigar out of your own box again? All agents are constantly removed as mail packages throughout the Netherlands and put back into other positions. It should simply include capacity, and this should not be at the expense of other capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	I don't share the opinion that cops are being pushed back and forth like mail packages. I do not understand the image that Mrs Kooiman paints. If occasional actions are needed to stop the criminal motorcycle gangs, I will make sure that the capacity required for this is available together with the corps leadership. I promised yesterday, and I repeat it here in the Chamber. My second point is the problem that, as a result of the ageing population, the Limburg police unit is at risk of falling below the agreed capacity. The chief of police in Limburg has drawn attention to this. By the way, this was not a new problem for me. I have said that this problem must be resolved in the light of these circumstances. I don't want the police unit Limburg to come out of the agreed capacity. I've agreed with the department that we want to prevent this. This means that the capacity required in Limburg, on which we have made an agreement with your Chamber, among other things, will come. That is also an important signal for the police chief of Limburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	Compliments to the Minister for his determination and for the fact that he travelled to Limburg personally last weekend. Colleagues have spoken about the ban on these motorcycle gangs. I understand from the Minister that the Public Prosecutor will use it to ban motorcycle gangs based on being an organized criminal organization. The D.A. did that in the past, and it didn't work out. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that the quality of the files is so good this time that it can be proven that there is a criminal organisation? Do I also understand the Minister's undertaking to do so, otherwise I would ask him to say that he will in any case explore the legal possibilities for banning this type of organisation? Because there is demand for and need for this, but also need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Marcouch for suggesting, in the run-up to the Pentecost days, that it would be a good idea for the Minister to take a personal look at the situation in Limburg. Without his encouragement, I would have done the same, but it certainly helped the decision to go there for the second Pentecost Day. I am therefore very grateful to Mr Marcouch for that, particularly because it was very appreciated by the people in Limburg itself. Secondly, Mr Marcouch said: I understand that the Minister is going to use the Public Prosecutor's Office. In our country, however, the Minister does not commit to the prosecution: that is independent and has an independent task. So I am not going to interfere with the quality of the files of the prosecution, as Mr Marcouch suggested. However, I will make sure that it is clear that I think that I am now saying here in the Chamber that everything that is criminally or civilly possible must be done to ban those criminal motorcycle gangs. If it isn't, I'll come up with a law amendment. In this context, I can assure you that I will be happy to look at the German system in order to see what is being done differently. I'll inform the Chamber about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you very much for your answers. You may stay for a while, because the next question will also be put to you.
