ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. It is not often that the Minister and I agree with each other, but now that is the case. You need to prescribe based on a medical need. You don't need to be financially stimulated. Hence the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch Healthcare Authority is in favour of a bonus for general practitioners referring their patients to healthcare providers contracted by the health insurance companies;]] [[considers that patients should be referred purely on the basis of content rather than on account of financial interests;]] [[considers, furthermore, that the purchasing power and control power of health insurers are improperly deployed if bonuses are used;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that health insurance companies are not allowed to give general practitioners bonuses if they wish,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to transfer the supervision of the significant market power in the care and the care-specific merger test from the Dutch Healthcare Authority to the Authority for Consumer & Market;]] [[noting that there is a great deal of concern and uncertainty in the care sector about the enforcement of the Competition Act by the Authority Consumer & Market and that its impact on cooperation and/or consultation is significant;]] [[considers that care is not a market in which there is a regular consumer market;]] [[also considers that healthcare providers should not be competing providers;]] [[calls on the Government not to transfer the supervision of significant market power and the care-specific merger test to the Authority Consumer & Market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25268-116]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25268-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	Then I'm filing another motion that's a bit of a weird duck in the bite. However, in view of the pressure on the agenda, the committee has decided to add it to this VAO because it prevents a different AO. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a conflict of interest with the Health Council and possibly in the development of the new design of the population inquiry into cervical cancer;]] [[Whereas the validity of the new design of the population survey on cervical cancer is under discussion;]] [[Considering that there is scientific discussion on which HPV test is best suited for the population survey and that the HPV test is much more expensive than the classical cytology test and the financial interests are very high;]] [[considers that research should exclude the possibility of conflict of interest and independent research in the development of the opinion of the Health Council on the new population survey, in order to best design the population survey;]] [[invites the Minister, the award of which company or companies may supply the HPV test to freeze, and the tender which laboratories may in future carry out the population survey not to start or freeze as well, and to carry out fully independent new research into the best form of cervical cancer screening,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25268-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	I would like to say in advance that I understand a great deal of Mrs Leijten's indignation. There has really been something going on here, with an advisor in which interests may be intertwined. It is extremely vulnerable, it is extremely bad that this is happening and it is good that we are going to do this differently in the future. I am therefore in complete agreement with her. But is it not better, knowing that delay can lead to health damage and enormous financial damage, and given that there has indeed been a test on the overall advice that shows that the advice is good, to say: we are going to continue, knowing that in the future we will no longer consider this kind of conflict of interest to be admissible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	I prefer to use the precautionary principle. It is not entirely clear whether the advice involved conflicts of interest. We must rule that out, also in order to do justice to the credibility of this screening in the future. This would indeed mean postponing perhaps two or three months. Right now, there's a good cervical cancer screening. This would be additional and would mean that the old situation would last two, three or perhaps four months longer, but the evaluation of the old situation has shown that this screening is very successful. I'm gonna go with the precautionary principle. If afterwards it appears that the advice involved conflicts of interest, there is a greater risk that both confidence in medical science and confidence in our screening programme will be undermined. That's not good after all. Moreover, I believe that the Minister has operated well on this dossier so far. We are now stuck with the summer recess, but otherwise we could have talked more about this in the short term. I therefore call for a freeze and a standstill until it is clear. Let's use the summer to get research done. If there is no doubt that there has been no conflict of interest, we can decide to proceed after the summer. We'll lose one or two months, and that's unfortunate, but the loss of confidence in medical science, in the advice of the Health Council and our screening is more serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	It's not a matter of precaution, it's a matter of principle. What exactly is your weighting? What do you think is justified? If I look at the Minister's letter saying that there could be many cases in which health damage could occur if we do not continue now, we also know that there is very serious financial damage, and there is indeed a test that says that the opinion is good, is it not better, as a precaution, to continue now and to do it really differently in the future? That's the weighting I'm putting forward here. Mrs Leijten understands which way I'm going. Isn't that how you could fill in the precautionary principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	We don't feel the same way about this. The Minister also says about the financial consequences that if this award eventually continues after the investigation has been carried out, it will expire again. It's a bit of a well-nickle game, isn't it? I also consider the belief in our medical science and the advice of the Health Council to be worth a lot. It's hard to put that in money. Mr Rutte said that we must do this very differently in the future. So there's something serious going on. Then let us say: care first. I don't rule out it taking one or two months; maybe three or four months. In the meantime, the screening of the age groups that the self-test could do is carried out. That's what's happening now. It's not like there's nothing if we freeze now just to be safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mrs. Wolbert, you're not registered. Is this in line with Mr Van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yeah, that's tuned. The Labour Party, of course, has also taken note of the Minister's assessment. We are reassured by the first measures taken by the Minister, according to the line: no more consultancy and outside the committee. We have included in our consideration that it cannot be postponed in a few months' time. In fact, it could lead to two or three years' delay. From the client perspective, this means that it could be very unfavourable for the women involved. If a new line were to be deployed, there would be 18 fewer deaths per year. The Labour Party has found this to be a serious consideration, I say in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u9	I have seen that too, but there is also discussion about this opinion. A quarter of the pathologists disagree with that conclusion. That is why I think we should be cautious. We do not know whether there has been a conflict of interest in the preliminary draft of the opinion and in all these assessments. Perhaps a certain tunnel vision has been created, which has led to the authorisation of this screening tool. This resulted in the participation of companies with which this renowned oncologist had a relationship. That makes me think we should take a quick look at it. In reply to Mr Rutte, I also said: I really would not want to delay it any longer than is necessary, but I do think that the discussion should be ended in order to do justice to the reliability of this screening, including in the scientific world itself, and to the public research. Everything can lead to a longer delay, but if we put our backs on this and continue to work this summer, it will not take longer than I said to Mr Rutte. In the meantime, there can be screened. It's not like there's no screening. I also note that there are different ages of a woman who is not using the new screening tool. That's only at three times in life. At other times, the old screening tool is used. Let us maintain that and ensure that this is cleared up as soon as possible. Do you imagine that the assumption of the number of people who would not die from the investigation referred to by Mrs Wolbert is not a good thing, then we are making a mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u10	Two foreign investigations are involved in the assessment. They came to the same conclusion. I think that the tunnel vision is becoming very small with that argument, but I think it is important to say that the presentation of things that would only be a few months' delay is not true in my opinion. It could be a lot longer. Secondly, 30% of women are now not participating in this type of screening. That argument has been important for the Labour Party to support the Minister in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u11	It is good for the Minister to know that she has the support of the Labour Party to continue. I think the risks are too great. I see how the Minister has acted. She shut it down, too. She spoke to the Health Council. Those counsellors can't go on anymore. We are still going to talk about the independence of and possible conflicts of interest in the Health Council. Until then, let us apply the precautionary principle. Gunning is: Can't go back. Then the financial consequences are much greater. I think the risk is too great, especially since I also see that a quarter of the pathologists say: we do not agree with the way this investigation has been conducted and with the assumptions contained in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u12	That brings us to the end of the parliamentary term. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mrs Leijten's 116 concerns the new funding system for general practitioners. We have agreed with general practitioners and insurers that a small part of the funding, segment 3, is open to agreements on what is needed or on which no agreements can be made in the other segments. That segment is free. Mrs Leijten calls it a bonus, but insurers and general practitioners can make agreements on what they do in that segment. That segment just entered. I do not want to impose all kinds of bans on this right now, but I want to see how additional agreements can contribute to better care. I therefore advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u14	Can the Minister explain how this relates to the plea to reduce the number of general practitioners in pharmacy, because they would have a double interest in prescribing? You also get a double interest by allowing that referral by the GP. That's a financial incentive, isn't it? That's undesirable, isn't it? I think this is double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u15	We pay for things we do. We pay a registration fee for something that we have agreed on in segment 1: we are not going to register all of this separately, we are putting it under general practitioner care. We have agreed to finance chain care in segment 2 because it is working with others. Segment 3 is a free segment. Insurers can make their own arrangements with general practitioners about what they do in that segment. There could be a viewing consult in there. Could be in there that you're making a move. For example, you agree that it is better to refer to a particular laboratory or to make other appointments. We have not imposed any restrictions on this. That's a free space. Insurers and general practitioners are there themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u16	This is about the bonus given as general practitioners referring to a contracted healthcare provider. Last year we discussed that segment 3 in detail; we are talking about it permanently. There's never been any mention of bonuses at segment three. There has been talk of compensation for what a general practitioner does and not for what he prescribes. I find it undesirable that a general practitioner should be given a financial interest in prescribing the behaviour of the health insurance provider. I had hoped that the Minister would also see this, given the very fervent plea she just made about the general practitioners in pharmacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u17	If you want to organize behavior better and make arrangements about it, you have to keep space to make those appointments. That's the whole idea behind segment three. It would seriously undermine you if you said: you can make agreements, but there are already agreements you can't make and we're banning. I therefore advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 117 the government is invited not to transfer the supervision of the significant market power and the care-specific merger test to the Authority Consumer & Market. At the moment, we have two supervisors dealing with merger tests and significant market power. They have to work together. As a result, supervision is fragmented and, in my opinion, does not run as it should. That is why I think it is high time we brought this surveillance together. You can pool it with one supervisor or the other. The choice for the Authority Consumer & Market has been made, because there is already knowledge there. You actually need to add extra knowledge of health care to that, besides the people who pass on. We strengthen the knowledge about the care and also the number of FTEs, so that we make a quality stroke in the supervision. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 118 is about a situation in which we have found ourselves because there is insufficient transparency. I deeply regret that. I think that the Health Council itself should draw up different rules for this. A scientist who does incredibly good work and is considered very well-known and expert in his field has come into an advisory role of a committee. He would have come if he'd given up on these interests. Then the role wouldn't have changed. However, I find it vulnerable to scientists and research. I really want to change the current situation. People who have an interest in something have to move further away. Of course, they can be heard because of their expertise. I do not care whether that happens once or ten times, but the committee must be independent of that. I think that's something important to carry through. In this motion, the government is asked to freeze the award. The same applies to the tender over the laboratories. I have sent a letter to the Chamber in which I have reflected its consequences. I must say to Mrs Leijten that these consequences are not insurmountable. It's manageable. So I am not going to pretend that the world is going to end and there will be bad care if we do not do what Mrs Leijten wants. I think it's better to follow my proposal. Four tests have been carried out. Three of them are completely independent. They have been done elsewhere, namely in Italy, the United Kingdom and Sweden, and they come to the same conclusion. The fourth study was carried out by Mr Meijer. You could say you shouldn't go blind on that, but it was one of the four studies and eventually 35 scientists were involved in the advice. All things considered, therefore, the advantages of continuing with this situation are greater than the disadvantages, because I do not doubt the results. However, you can also come to a different conclusion. I'll leave this to the Chamber, but I'll let her know that I didn't give the advice in the letter for nothing. I am truly convinced that we can proceed better, but the Chamber can come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-07-01-tweedekamer-5.u18	The vote on the motions tabled will take place tomorrow.
