ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Here we are again. Get the weed growing out of the illegal circuit! That's the VNG's call. I'd almost say a cry for help. An unsustainable situation has arisen, writes the committee, because the government through the tolerated criminals offers plenty of space to sell their products. What has been done so far, the committee calls 'dating and keeping wet'. This is not the first time and, I suspect, it will not be the last time we talk about this. When can we have a breakthrough in this bankruptcy policy? What is needed to change this policy? There have been so many other opinions for this opinion. Many mayors have spoken out on this matter. We are not making any progress, even more so, and that is perhaps the most damaging thing. The committee is deeply concerned about criminals trying to gain influence over local government. That's not new. Once again, I ask the Minister what he can do in this. I suspect that we will probably get the following answer: it is not up to him now, because the VNG still has to respond to this opinion, and we also have the Oscam motion which would prevent us from giving municipalities the room to work on this. I can see Mr. Oskam nodding. Let me therefore suggest two things. Mr. Oskam will soon be mayor and may offer the opportunity to change his and his party's mind, because his future colleagues will undoubtedly discuss with him, even in a neighbouring municipality of Rotterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mrs Volp, you really need to ask the Minister a question and not a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	Exactly. That is why I am now presenting a challenge to the Minister. The Oskam motion will allow the Minister to investigate what is needed. So I would like to get a response to this advice and to the challenge. What can the Minister do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. For the Acts, I note that Mrs Volp's expectations were correct and that the response she has already expressed is absolutely correct. I ask the President and Mrs Volp whether they need me to repeat the answer myself or whether they think it is sufficient for me to endorse it. As a lawyer, I would have said: I can regard Mrs Volp's words on what I would have liked to say as repeated and inserted here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	That's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	No, I can add that the text of the Oskam motion is extremely clear. There is no room for any of the municipal experiments. Following this motion, I wrote to the Chamber on 27 May: "The cultivation of hemp is punishable under Article 3 (B) of the Opium Act. Therefore, municipalities are not allowed to experiment with regulated hemp cultivation. If there are criminal offences, I assume that the Public Prosecutor's Office will prosecute if necessary." In addition, I have noted: "Other municipalities indicate that they will only implement their plans if they are given national space for them. I am not aware of any signals from municipalities which, in spite of national policy, have started or intend to carry out experiments." Those signals were not known to me at the time and are still unknown to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	On the one hand, it is always nice to have a predictable minister. On the other hand, you can't even get mad about it anymore, because you're sad and disappointed. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat heb je ook als kinderen dingen doen die niet oké zijn.]] What's this gonna take? At what point can we all conclude that what is happening now is not working? We are making a joke of it now, but it is not, because it is about nuisance, insecurity and the penetration of organised crime into our society. It's also a little too easy to say: I can't do anything and I'm not doing anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	This minister abides by the law, which has been established here in a parliamentary manner. This minister, together with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and many other municipalities and provinces, is fighting the completely out of control crime surrounding illegal hemp cultivation. I cannot reconcile that with Mrs Volp's paraphrase: that the behavior is of children who are not okay, as I just heard her say. We are talking about combating very well organised crime that makes millions, if not hundreds of millions. I believe that the Chamber has supported and should continue to support this in broad terms. No matter how you turn it, no matter what you do with cannabis or weed, you're always gonna have to deal with crime hard-handed, and that's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u9	We share the view that we must fight organised crime, but it is about the partners in combating organised crime, namely mayors and local government. Others, such as judges, have also made statements which show that they do not know how to implement this legislation. Well, that makes the minister free to go on his own, doesn't it? That's why I'm making another appeal. The law is also there to be reviewed. Also with the law that we now have, I ask that we take this cry from the Association of Dutch Municipalities seriously, because we continue with this really harmful policy. I understand there are deaf ears. I've kissed hands with the budget before. I am now asking for a hand-out to the Dutch municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mrs Volp also knows what the political reality is. The majority of the Chamber has stated on several occasions that there is no need for legislative change and that there is no room for that. There's no thought of working on that either. If there are, the Court can rule on that. It's not in the coalition agreement. So as a minister, I have no basis to make a change. Mrs. Volp asked: how then? It is up to the parties in this Chamber to rethink the electoral programmes for the upcoming elections and perhaps note something about them in a new government agreement. But even so, it is not permitted under international treaties, I say in the direction of the Chamber. If the Netherlands were the only one pursuing a different policy than all of our neighbouring countries, we would run the risk of becoming Europe's biggest drug dealer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u11	Of course, this is kind of a play, because the PvdA is in the cabinet itself, so if she really wanted to arrange it... The Minister himself says it is not in the coalition agreement. If the PvdA had really wanted to settle this, would the Minister have considered that he would move in order to apparently support a plea from the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u12	Let me say first of all that in recent years I have experienced in this Chamber, as a Member of Parliament, but also as a minister, that the PvdA has taken a fairly consistent position on all kinds of legalisation in drug policy, especially cannabis. I can see that, and I can't judge it. I have a coalition agreement to which I feel bound, as is customary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u13	Madam President. Drugs are extremely harmful and they make the wrong people an incredible amount of money. The minister says he wants to fight that, and he has the support of the Christian Union Group. The VNG says that we should change the path. She wants to raise the white flag. The Minister says: I am not listening to that, I am going on with the policy I have pursued and I want to fight against what is wrong. In addition, he has our support. Earlier, there has been a statement from a spokesman of the Public Prosecutor's Office in the South of the Netherlands that it wants to intensify the fight against drug nuisance. If the Minister says he doesn't listen to this cry or this cri de coeur of the VNG, will he listen to the Public Prosecutor's Office? Can we expect an intensification of the fight against drug nuisance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u14	That intensification has been there for some years. The task force in the South of the Netherlands has already applied this intensification. In the drug monitor and in the WODC study, it can be seen that more hemp farms are being evacuated every year than in the years before. That also indicates how large-scale crime is. There is no doubt that I will conduct the policy differently from what is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr. Chairman, may I have a moment? I have been informed from a reliable source that Mr. Oskam will be mayor of a coffee shop-free municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. Thank you for your answers. I understand you're staying for the vote. For example, we are also going to vote on the motions tabled to your budget.
