ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the acting National Ombudsman, Mr Van Dooren, the Children's Ombudsman, Mr Dullaert, and Mrs Bekman, the director of the National Ombudsman Office. Of course I also call the substitute ombudsman, Mrs Stehouwer. She's not here right now, but of course she is in spirit. It is the eighth time that the annual report of the National Ombudsman has been presented in plenary. This is not only in line with the motion adopted by the Chamber in 2007 to pay more attention to the annual report of the National Ombudsman, but also in line with the connection between the work of MPs and the work of the National Ombudsman. The word "ombudsman" comes from Swedish, where it means "representative." And at the core, the Chamber and the National Ombudsman, both High Colleges of State, do the same: we represent the voice of almost 17 million Dutch people. I ask the guardian of the Chamber to accompany the acting Ombudsman to section K. I give the floor to the acting Ombudsman, Mr Van Dooren, who will present his report for the past year and then offer it to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-8.u2	Madam President, honourable Members of the House of Representatives. Today, as acting Ombudsman, I offer you the report of the National Ombudsman for 2014. 2014 was an eventful year for the Institute of National Ombudsman. When I presented the 2013 report here a year ago, the idea was that I would quickly make way for a successor to Alex Brenninkmeijer, but that turned out differently. In the meantime, I've been acting as a mid-pope for 15 months. I dare to use that term, because my name is also Franciscus. To my great delight and that of my organization, Reinier van Zutphen will be sworn in next week by your Chamber as a new National Ombudsman. This means that the institute has a figurehead again, very important for a highly personalized High College of State as the National Ombudsman. We are confident that he will give a new impetus in his own way to strengthening the relationship between citizens and government. When I look back at 2014 I notice the following. The total number of telephone, written and digital complaints and signals shows a decline, from almost 40,000 in 2012 and over 38.000 in 2013 to over 36,000 in 2014. It is striking, however, that the number of complaints about the government has not decreased compared to 2013. The reduction is almost entirely due to complaints that are not about the government. In other words, the citizen knows better and better what the Ombudsman stands for and for which he does not. Over 2,800 cases were investigated. That's 70% more than in 2013. How did the various public authorities do? In almost all policy areas we see a decrease in the number of complaints. In 2013, there was still a significant increase in the Ministry of Security and Justice, which also shows a significant decrease in 2014. On the other hand, the number of complaints about the Tax Administration, which had declined slightly in 2013, increased by 31% in 2014. The Tax Office is the leader of the top fifteen, with more than 6,600 complaints, 18% of all complaints lodged with the Ombudsman. The increase in the Tax Administration is to a large extent borne by the Tax Administration/Applications. About supplements we received more complaints in 2014 than in the record year so far, 2006, when the surcharges were introduced. These complaints were largely resolved by the Ombudsman's intervention, but in order to reveal the causes of the complaints about surcharges, the Ombudsman carried out a major investigation on his own initiative which led to a February inquiry. Report published. In Chapter 1 of the report, I reviewed the main problems addressed by the Ombudsman in 2014. What's in it for you? Many of these problems can be traced back to impossible tasks with which execution services have been saddled by politics, from strength and striving for efficiency. After systems were put in place that were not sufficiently designed for fraud sensitivity, measures had to be implemented with great speed to combat fraud. However, who was the most affected by this? Not the calculating fraudsters, but well-intentioned citizens who did not cheat at all or at least did not intend to cheat at all. You could blame the executive services for not making politics more clear that they were set for an impossible task. To the question why they did not do this, I have a possible answer. At a time of shrinking the administration, a service will not soon say that it is unable to handle a task. There is a good chance that this task will be entrusted to another department, with all the consequences for its own staff. In addition, official loyalty also plays a role. The examples are for picking up, starting with the Tax Administration: under political pressure, the single-bank account number measure opted for a cold-turkey approach rather than for gradual introduction, with the result that many citizens who had nothing to do with fraud were in financial difficulties because they had to miss their allowances for months. The UWV saw no room for customization in the tight regulations of the Fraud Act. Good-willed citizens who had made a mistake in the provision of information or exceeded a period of time by a few days were punished as if they had deliberately cheated. A ruling by the Supreme Court and a report by the Ombudsman have led the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to work on a legislative amendment. The CBR was saddled by the legislator with the implementation of an alcohol lock measure which did not offer any possibility of a judicial review of individual interests. In addition, the Ombudsman's investigation found that the alcohol lock is defective and that citizens may wrongly lose their driving rights. In the meantime, destructive statements by the Supreme Court and the Council of State have forced the Minister of Infrastructure and the Environment to change the law. The Public Prosecutor's Office was tasked with a task that belongs to the judge. Due to the desire for efficient punishment, the criminal order was introduced in conjunction with super-fast law. These criminal decisions shall result in a record of the documentation, with all the consequences thereof. Legal assistance and access to justice are not sufficiently guaranteed in the criminal order. From the point of view of efficiency, these penalties are imposed by less qualified officials, without serious control by a prosecutor, according to an investigation by the Attorney General at the Supreme Court. In addition, it appeared that in many cases the evidence was not complete. The CJIB was tasked as an efficient penalty machine with the implementation of cutting-edge legislation, which could lead to people in financial difficulties entering a path of increase, with until recently no payment arrangements being possible, leading to senseless hostage-takings: more than 100,000 hostage requests per year. An initiative by the National Ombudsman in 2013 has finally led to legislation allowing payment in instalments. The Ombudsman has recently launched an own-initiative inquiry into hostage-taking practice. As a last example, I mention the Social Insurance Bank, which until recently has been a model of good service provision. It seems that the political desire to tackle fraud with pgbs vigorously has also led to an approach that has put well-intentioned citizens in financial difficulties. The Ombudsman also launched an inquiry into this issue. After summing up these examples, I note that it seems that the signals given by the Ombudsman and the judge in recent years are now being picked up. There is reason for cautious optimism, given the initiatives to change regulations and policies. Hopefully, the nuance will return to government policy and regulation and there will be more room for tailor-made work for citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-25-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr van Dooren, I would like to thank you very much for the annual report that I have just received from you and for the great amount of work and concern you have given to it again with your staff. Of course, I would also like to thank Mr Dullaert, Mrs Stehouwer and the Kinderombudsman, as well as the staff of the National Ombudsman's Office. I will place the annual report in the hands of the Permanent Committee on the Interior. It is up to this committee to decide on a further procedure. Before I close, I would like to address a few personal remarks to Mr Van Dooren. Mr Van Dooren, as you said in your explanatory statement, it was an eventful year for the Institute of National Ombudsman. The new Ombudsman is expected to be sworn in by the Chamber on 31 March, so that you can hand over the baton. It took longer than you and we anticipated. You even postponed your retirement date several times. I am very grateful to you, but also to your home front, for that. Thank you for your commitment at a time of great turbulence in many ways. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here.
