ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and her officials, the people in the public gallery and the Members of Parliament. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. That was a beautiful sight: our minister in an armored car, fighting for more money for the Defense Department. There's an activist in every politician. I would like to congratulate Mr Wiegel on that. The old fox hasn't lost it yet. But what an irony at the same time. In fact, the Minister took action against her own policy and recognised that Defence is squeaking and cracking. Her army has far too little resources in relation to the number of tasks. That is why the Minister wants more money, while there is still a solution that is much more real, namely less tasks. Let's see what the army has done over the past few years, with the question: was that really meaningful? Afghanistan. It's not nice for our military, especially not for the people there, but this mission has failed. The Taliban are back in large parts of the country. The raid in Iraq was a war based on lies. Tony Blair has also recently acknowledged this. It was a war that contributed to the rise of Islamic State. Now the West is again fighting IS, an enemy that one has created oneself, and again without a sound plan. The same story applies to Libya. Dictator Gaddafi was expelled, and the country fell into chaos. The mission in Mali is again a result of Western intervention in Libya. The pattern is clear: the west identifies an enemy. A war is started to drive it away. Then the country falls into chaos. Conclusion: you do not think enough about the consequences of your actions. VVD group chairman Zijlstra also admits that. "We have not given enough thought to the wars in Iraq and Libya."," he said. Now I'd like to hear that from this government. Does she also admit that the war against Saddam Hussein was a mistake? More generally, is this minister prepared to acknowledge that military missions are rarely successful? Look at Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya, but Srebrenica is also part of this, however tragic. Let me reverse the question. Can the Minister give me an overview of successful missions over the past 50 years? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u3	I really thought that the broken rifle no longer existed, but it stands before us here: Mr Van Dijk, who actually says that all wars and all crises are the fault of the West and that military intervention is rarely or rarely successful. So what is Mr Van Dijk's response to the threats that are coming to the Netherlands today? I'll name one: IS. What is the response of the SP Group? Sit still, let everything get over us and accept? Is that your message?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have a bit of a déjà vu. Last year Mr Knops was here as angry as he is now. That's the new CDA. After cutting back a billion dollars there, one suddenly becomes the great defender of the defense. But Mr Knops can do that. That broken rifle, however, also fits Halbe Zijlstra. Let us note that, because Halbe Zijlstra rightly said that we have not given enough thought to the wars in Iraq and Libya. I'm also curious about the CDA's reflection on those missions. The question was what the SP is doing against IS. Well, at least don't throw bombs on a powder keg like that. We can see that the fight against ISIS isn't getting any less. In fact, recruitment is only increasing. In the end, therefore, we will have to work towards a political solution, however difficult it may be. The parties that are now calling the hardest for bombs to be thrown at IS also need to think carefully about the cause of the rise of IS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is very interesting that Mr Van Dijk is asking me all kinds of questions. He'll have to do that right away in my term. However, I am now asking him a question. I'd like him to answer my question. Mr Van Dijk has actually come to the conclusion that all the missions of the past few years have been pointless; let me say it in my own words. The SP Group has always put forward new arguments for not having to do anything. She said to the Afghans: figure it out yourself. She has said to the people of Mali who were threatened by extremists: figure it out yourself and solve your problems yourself. She says: by the way, we have caused these problems ourselves, but we are not doing anything to solve them. Mr Van Dijk can do this and can the SP Group not be serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u6	There was an interesting clause in Mr Knops's interruption. He said we caused the problems ourselves, but you can figure it out yourself. That is what I am asking you, Mr Knops. Of course, there are all kinds of legitimate arguments for trying to bring peace and stability to certain regions. However, I would ask for reflection in this budget debate, because I know that many colleagues will argue for even more money to go to the defence sector. I'm asking them, before they do, to think carefully about what we're gonna do with that money. I also see that there are threats around Europe. I can also see that there are tensions. But you have to ask yourself: what is our own role in this, and do we go for escalation or de-escalation? For the latter, the SP chooses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u7	Sometimes it is interesting to have an academic discussion and to think about the consequences of intervention by the West in the Middle East. But sometimes things are very concrete and very direct, for example when jezidis were on the Sinjar Mountains in Iraq and threatened to fall prey to the whims of ISIS. That would turn out to be a murder. Then there were compelling calls, for example from a representative in the Iraqi Parliament. She said, "Come and help us." Should we start such an academic discussion at one of these moments? Or should we say at such a time: yes, we are going to help you and we see no other option than military intervention now, because it is on or below because it is about life or death?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u8	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Segers on his new position. Actually, he asked me this question last year. At that time, this issue was even more topical. I must say that the situation on that mountain with the Jezidis was extremely intense. We also discussed this within the SP. We said at that time: in the case of genocide, military intervention can be legitimate. That is different from the mission, the war that is now being waged under Obama, with the destruction of IS as its ultimate goal. The latter were the words of Obama, so on behalf of the coalition that includes the Netherlands. I also think that the Christian Union should ask itself what the plan for this mission is. Combating IS is one thing, but what happens after that? Let us also look at how things have been over the past ten to fifteen years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u9	I thank Mr Van Dijk for his kind words. Let's cut to the chase. We can, of course, talk about the effects of intervention by the West over the last ten years. However, that is an academic discussion. If Kobani is about to fall, if there are mass murders at risk, then sometimes you have to intervene and then you also have to intervene. Does the SP want to intervene at such a time? If the answer is yes in the event of a threatening genocide, I have just heard a yes from Mr Van Dijk to that question, then you must also invest in the armed forces. That means that we must also take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u10	Indeed, the answer is simply: yes. Let me clear up a misunderstanding: the SP is not an opponent of the armed forces. The SP also wants to maintain a military force in order to carry out military missions. Then there is the issue of academic discussion. We are discussing the defence budget today. I think that should be a moment to reflect. We are not talking about a mission that is being launched today, but about the budget and, therefore, about policy. The Minister is working hard on that, but I think she's avoiding making choices. We noticed this last week in the legislative referrals. There's gonna be some extra money for the Defense Department, but the Minister is asking us to give her more time to figure out what she wants with the armed forces. The comment I want to make against her is: make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u11	You have plenty of time for that. The answers must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u12	I understand that the Members who have spoken so far repeat their questions from last year. In any case, Mr Van Dijk cannot blame me for that. He said that the framing of US intervention led to IS. Why is Mr Van Dijk doing it this way? Does he mean that ISIS wouldn't have arisen if the US hadn't intervened in Iraq?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u13	I think it would be good to look at that very closely. That there would be no relationship at all between the invasion of Iraq in 2003 by the United States and the expulsion of Saddam Hussein, and the rise of IS, I seriously doubt. I see bandages. I see a causality. It would be a good idea for Parliament to take a very good look at that. I would recommend this to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Bishop, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u15	Even without that recommendation, we are diving deep into this kind of matter. If I understand Mr Van Dijk correctly, his statement is that Saddam Hussein's dictatorial regime would have protected the West from the threat of radical Islam. My conclusion is that Mr Van Dijk prefers dictatorial rule over the fight against dictatorial violence and authority. That's the conclusion we have to draw from his speech, isn't it? It's a bit of a broken gun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u16	I think Mr Bishop is higher. This is a flat sample of demagogy. If he had listened carefully to my input, he would have understood that I would ask the Chamber and the Minister if we should think better about wars started by the West and the consequences they have. I mentioned Afghanistan, Libya and Iraq. Something has been said about this by authoritative figures. I remember Timmermans saying that the problem in Iraq is a multifaceted dragon; you cut off one head and you get six in return. Those were wise words. I am not going to make a plea for dictators here. Mr Bishop knows that very well. I am just saying that wars that have been waged with the support of the Netherlands are often counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Bishop, the interruption is merely a question and a follow-up question. Since Mr Van Dijk has given you a personal qualification, you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr President, for your flawless observation that this was a personal fact. If there is a violation of human rights, a dictatorial regime and repression, the West can do two things: it can watch and let it happen, or it can intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Bishop...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u20	It's one of two, there's no more flavors. What is Mr Van Dijk's main choice? I'd like to ask him that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u21	This wasn't supposed to happen. An interruption really consists of a question and a follow-up question. You were allowed to make a third comment about a personal fact, and you did not. Mr Van Dijk continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u22	I thought it was a very nice question, because Mr Bishop is of course quite right: you can intervene or you cannot intervene. I ask the following question to those who are in favour of intervention in the various missions in Iraq, Afghanistan and Libya. Was that intervention wise now, or was it counterproductive? This is meant to draw lessons, because now we see a broad call for more money for Defence, from Jan Pronk to Hans Hillen, from VVD to PvdA. Yes, also the PvdA has been cheering for some time for extra money. What a huge twist compared to her own election program. New weapons are being advocated: new submarines, the tanks are coming back again, mop policy is being discussed, and of course we had the JSF. Minister, without extra billions, this is gonna get tight. Make some choices. What's the minister gonna do with all these guns? Increase our commitment in Iraq and Afghanistan, while success is so doubtful. Look also at the flow of refugees, partly as a result of western intervention. That's why the SP says, "Stop fooling around with unthinking participation in missions that don't work." We don't have to go to war any more, we have to go to war less. It must be a political solution that does not come any closer with bombs on a powder keg. Let's get out of Iraq, Afghanistan and Mali. Learn from the lessons of the past few years. We save hundreds of millions of euros, we create a military that fits the Netherlands, a modern armed force, focused on peacekeeping missions. Then there will be an end to this discrepancy between resources and ambitions. Take a good look at Clingendael's proposals. Bet on a robust peacekeeping force. Don't hold on to a versatile force. The Minister doesn't have the money for that, even after last Princess Day. Is the Minister prepared to move in this direction? By the way, yesterday we received an interesting petition from the club War is not a Solution. In that we saw that NATO spends as much as ten times as much on defence as Russia. Something else to think about. When it comes to our own role in the current conflicts, we must also look at arms exports. What does the Secretary of State think about the arms trade with Egypt? This country plays a major role in the war in Yemen. Is exports from the Netherlands in line with European criteria? What does the Minister think about Dutch insurers investing in weapons and even in cluster bombs? We saw that last week in Nieuwsuur, based on research by Amnesty International. In Turkey there are fierce fights going on. Is the Minister prepared to conduct independent investigations into violations of international law by all warring parties? Is the Minister prepared to take a critical look at arms exports to Turkey as long as violence continues? Are arms deliveries and arms transit from the Netherlands still submitted to the Minister on a case-by-case basis? The government says she wants to get rid of nuclear weapons worldwide. In practice, we see something else: nuclear weapons are being modernised. This is contrary to the wishes of the House of Representatives. Why doesn't the Minister listen to that? Remove nuclear weapons from the Netherlands and don't hang them under the JSF. I come to the staff who have worked with toxic substances. In January, the Minister organizes a meeting for victims of the toxic cleaning agent PX-10, because of the criticism of the investigation. It's a step forward, but it can't be a sweetener. It would be good if the Chamber could think along about the scheme. The Minister must stand up for these people. Make sure there's a proper compensation scheme. What happened to the 2,500 people who reported to the PX-10 Contact Point in 2009? I have not yet received an answer to that. When it comes to chrome paint, we hope for a quick processing of the research. This too is a very serious matter. The AOW hole of Defense personnel is a disgrace. People are completely out of blame affected by the Minister's policy. There is undoubtedly discrimination here. The solution is simple: let the benefit for former soldiers, the Umm, go through to the actual age of AOW. Cover can find the minister in the extra money for the Defense Department. That would be justice. I'll be on the whistleblower at Eindhoven Air Base. He has made improvements to the Air Force, he has denounced abuses, and that deserves recognition, for example with a ribbon. You shouldn't put whistleblowers away or chase them away. You should appreciate them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Chairman. With 25 minutes left on the clock, it's 11:00. At that time, 97 years ago, also on 11 November, the First World War was ended. It's special to talk about the defence budget on this day. Even more remarkable is the sensation that many colleagues and I had two weeks ago when we travelled to Rotterdam. This city is home to the Van Ghent barracks, to use that word, of Marine training. The motivation you feel among the military as soon as you enter the gate of that barracks, you would almost fill out a registration form for the training. But, Minister, don't be afraid, because I've already passed that age limit. The programme therefore did not include training, but a very different special occasion, in which the minister himself was present. From her hands, two Marines received a bravery award. Both young men had shown their courage during the anti-piracy mission in Somalia, to which the Netherlands has been making a valued contribution for years and which is now approaching its end. It was a special ceremony. It made us very much aware, at least to me, of the improbable circumstances in which soldiers sometimes have to work. In this case, shelling by Somali pirates was part of the daily work. Imagine the bullets flying around your ears while on the high seas you're clapping on the waves in a boat where taking cover is a pretty unopposed exercise. In the last seven months I have learned the distinction between a ship and a boat; that is also important. A boat sails under water and a ship sails above water. It's good to hold that. Turn around and get out of here! You could think. I find it plausible that many people would make that choice, but not these two Marines and their teammates. In response, they chose the confrontation to help the hostages on board an Iranian fishing boat. When the fishing boat exploded with a bang, probably due to a hit gas tank, that was again a moment when turning right must have seemed attractive, especially since the team was still bombarded from the coast. But again that was not the choice these men made on board. At the risk of their own lives, they went to the destroyed boat to fish drownings, both hostages and hostage takers, out of the water. It was only when everyone was raised in the small boat that the ship was turned around and with the entire team alive that the mother ship was reached; "just another day at the office" for the marines. However, the bravery distinctions were more than deserved. With this story, I would like to emphasise how special it is that young men and women, but sometimes also older men and women, are putting their bodies and their members at risk to serve our country. The Marines mentioned are a typical example of this, but I could have taken hundreds, if not thousands, of other examples from the past years: from commandos now operating in Mali to F-16 pilots fighting above Iraq and from police trainers in Afghanistan to the marechaussees who, as we speak, guard the heart of Dutch democracy, as one can see outside. With a bravery award or in silent invisibility, thousands of Dutch soldiers are in the weather every day to ensure the safety of all Dutch people. I cannot and will not ignore the fact that the defence budget is being dealt with on an annual basis. Eventually, everything we're discussing here today is about all those soldiers and civilians working at the Defence Organisation. About a quarter are citizens and you also have a citizen to assist, so I looked at him and thought that I should also mention the citizens who work at the Defence Organisation. Having said that, I come to the Minister's policy. Mr Van Dijk has already said something about this. I got a quote from a thinker whose name I can't mention. He said the following, I quote him about this minister: "A wise woman, builds up a military force from an assessment of possible risks in a period of time in which a state is situated, looking forward to what might develop and what defence forces for peace and security should then be available to that state." I am also saying this to Mr Van Dijk, because he has not understood that either; I am sure that will come again in the next few days. That is exactly what this minister is doing, who is right to be proud and, in principle, satisfied in the Chamber of our Parliament. The Minister is in charge of a high-quality military force in all those areas and places where it is deployed. Mr Vuijk and I said this last week during the legislative debate. All men and women who, within the four armies and beyond, make their personal contribution to team performance, ensuring peace and security close and far away in this world, may be very satisfied with the work they have done in recent years. Not only them, but others have certainly contributed. That's what brings us to this minister. It is right that the General Court should issue a more than sufficient report on the efforts made over the past year. The overall organisation is transparent, reveals what it can and cannot do and indicates what resources are needed for this. Sometimes we in the Chamber have to ask a little bit about that, but that doesn't matter at all, because the Minister has a different responsibility than we do. It is up to us as a policy to make an objective assessment of this, even in cases where the can-domeism of the military may sometimes have to be considered critically; critically from the point of view of self-preservation of that same military force, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u24	I was just addressed, so I cannot help asking Mr Teeven what he thought of my speech and what he thought of the words of his own group chairman. He said that we did not give enough thought to Libya, as did the intervention in Iraq. I fully understand the appreciation of the armed forces. I also appreciate the staff, but he must also reflect on what the armed forces are doing. Does he share his group chairman's view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u25	This was a question with two partial questions. What did you think of my speech? I thought that was nice, because Mr Van Dijk did exactly what he had to do in his party's political spectrum and I listened to it. Sometimes I listen to it satisfied because I'm glad his party isn't in power. Other people have to take responsibility and carry responsibility, but what Mr Van Dijk says is what we are used to about him. Mr Knops already asked him in an interruption: have you woken up yet? I'm not gonna do it again, but I liked the story, which is my answer to question 1a. Question 1b was what I thought of the story of my own group chairman. I'd be extremely stupid if I said I didn't like it. So I'm not gonna do that. I thought it was a sensible story, and I thought it was a realistic story, because that is what we Liberals stand for. Liberals also feel that, when they look back and see that they have made mistakes in the past, they can learn from them. Fortunately, there are also Christian Democrats who think so, sometimes also Social Democrats. That is exactly what Mr Zijlstra says. That's not a bad thing either, because I suspect that the Socialist Party too is looking back and thinking "gosh, we've always supported the Kurds, but now we're abandoning them a little bit, we actually have to support them a little bit." But we need to be brief from the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u27	So I say: it is wise of the group chairman; it is a good story. I stay in his line of thought, but of course I don't stop thinking. It always is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u28	Let me be honest: Mr Teven's story is also nice to listen to. It's extremely entertaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u29	Look, it's mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u30	He gets points for the presentation. The funny thing is that Mr Zijlstra actually said what the SP has been saying for years, namely: do not do that now and think about it carefully; those raids in Iraq and Libya were not well thought out. So Mr Teeven cannot say that he disagrees with the story of the SP and with his group chairman, because they both said the same thing. The question is what lessons he's going to learn from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u31	You always have to learn lessons from the past. If you've made mistakes in the past or if you've done things you should have thought about better, you should try not to make those mistakes in the future. That is inherent in bearing responsibility. There are parties in parliament that have often assumed government responsibility. You'll have to think about how your policy is going to be deported. This minister is working on it. She's given it a lot of thought. I commend her for that. Today we reflect on that. The VVD also tries to learn from mistakes. Sometimes things aren't entirely wrong. You've seen it wrong, and in history, it'll work out differently. You'll have to take that with you in the future. We will certainly do that, as I am trying to explain to Mr Van Dijk today. I will continue with my speech that I hope is not only entertaining but also interesting, so that Mr Van Dijk learns some of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u32	Let me put another dime in the bag. I am more pleased with Mr Teeven's speech than with Mr Van Dijk's, but I think he would have expected it. Mr. Teeven is putting off a very nice story. He compliments the minister on everything she's done. In recent weeks, we have come to know Mr Teeven as someone who has been extremely pronunciated and who certainly does not turn his heart into a murder pit. I appreciate that very much. He said it's okay to add money, but it's far too little. Can Mr Teeven reflect on this in the light of the speech he is making today during the budget debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u33	I'll get to that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u34	If you come back to that later, I think it would be fine to respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u35	The Minister has released funds for 2016. I shall come back to that in detail. Maybe it's a little early to go into that now. I have some compliments to make to the Minister. If I have done all that, I am happy to do so and I come to that reflection that Mr Knops is asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u36	I understand I was too early. Timing is important, too. I'm gonna ask you the next question. Does Mr Teeven also question the fact that extra money should go to the defence sector on top of the money that has now been settled by the cabinet, or does he agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u37	This was discussed with a great deal of understanding during the General Political Reviews in October. As a result, the Van der Staaij II motion was tabled at that time. A number of parties have co-signed that motion. There were also parties who supported the motion but did not sign it. About 80% to 85% of MPs supported her. That motion actually states that there must be structural reinforcement. This must be done along the four lines or basic conditions set out in the operative part of the motion. This means that there must also be financial resources. The answer to Mr Knops' question is therefore yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u38	What does Mr Bitch think of the fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u39	No, no, Mr. Knops. You asked a question and a follow-up question, so that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'd like to ask a new question now, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u41	Well, no, then I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u42	Then let me make a point of order. This is a budget debate. It's about a lot of money. I can sit down for another five minutes and then ask the question again. I see he's all ready to answer him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u43	I don't know what Mr Knops is going to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u44	Of course you can ask another question later, Mr Knops. I did not want to limit the number of interruptions, but I do want to limit the number of questions that are being asked. If we're all gonna ask each other questions in a row now, we're gonna have a problem. But if it's a very urgent question, then... I know I'm making a mistake right now, because everyone's gonna take advantage of it, but move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you for this gesture. I won't take advantage of that. You'll see that today. Prime Minister Rutte said in the General Reviews that he questioned the immediate need for even more money for Defence. Can Mr Teeven reflect on this again, partly in the light of his previous statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u46	I do not think that the Prime Minister has quite put it that way, but he has indeed made a similar remark. That is also why the VVD Group, I speak of 'the VVD Group', because there is dualism between the cabinet and the group 'Van der Staaij II', with great enthusiasm and great pleasure, has signed the Van der Staaij II motion. Our group chairman did so. I was also very happy, because apparently the Prime Minister is listening to a majority of Parliament. Afterwards, I heard him say, at the graduation of the degrees to officers, that was, I think, on a Saturday, that there should be a long-term increase in funding to Defence. I also heard that remark. Then we tabled that motion together, which was subsequently adopted. After that, I heard the Prime Minister say something else. I was happy about that. I hope that Mr Knops has heard the same thing. I have every confidence in the Cabinet on this point. We are going to hear from the Minister how she explains the hook behind which more structural resources are available. Eventually, the Prime Minister said the same thing as the Minister. Actually, there was no light in there. For the VVD group, the weighting is really positive. It is not a bad thing what has been done in the past cabinet period. The Minister continues, but what's even more important is that the entire Defense Organization does the same. There are a number of striking examples. The use of armed forces is high, national and international: missions and surveillance tasks. Despite certain limitations, there are more than twenty contributions to large and small missions. The Minister is taking structural steps and putting things in order to put Defence on a financially sustainable and thus future-proof footing. One of the largest reorganisation projects ever carried out at the Defense Department is during this cabinet period. I am not very happy about that afterwards, but it was decided at the time. The Minister has to do that. Our Minister and Defence have played a leading role in the creation of the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force (VJTF): NATO's flashpower to defend Europe and the North flank. Defence has played an important role in the follow-up to the crash of the MH17. Also at very difficult times for the Netherlands, a lot of military parts could be called upon. Defense has ordered the first F-35 devices by now. This brings a state-of-the-art fighter plane into the house that can compete with all the other planes. The Netherlands is at the forefront of international defence cooperation within Europe. I refer to cooperation with the Belgian naval forces and the German army. Problems and wrongdoings are being tackled vigorously and vigorously. I refer to IT, to automation, to the declaration of non-preservation, to the chrome dossier, on which the SP Group and the VVD Group really think differently, and to the integrity. The Court concludes in its report that many of these opinions have been properly taken up. The Minister is on the right track. The VVD Group was also pleased when the Chamber received the promised letter on Monday at the legislative consultation Staff, in which the Minister further specifies the additional funds, amounting to 220 million in 2016 to 345 million in 2020 and beyond, are spent. It may be noted that this is the largest increase in the defence budget since the end of the Cold War. The VVD Group sees that this minister is working actively in three phases to improve the military. First, there is the strengthening of basic readiness, then international cooperation and then increasing the investment budget. By improving the human and material readiness and increasing the practicability, the availability, employability and response rate of the armed forces increase. However, in the opinion of the VVD Group, this is a warning. The funds currently made available cannot increase the level of ambition of the Netherlands for participation in missions. I think we need to establish this. Consolidation and further reinforcement of the armed forces will be the starting point in the coming years. We understand the Minister's choices to strengthen material readiness. Complementing spare parts and putting maintenance contracts in order are substantial matters. As far as human readiness is concerned, the overall objective is, of course, to increase flexibility. But the VVD Group is particularly pleased with the strengthening of medical support to operational units. In her view, this is a basic condition for the proper functioning of the troops. We also appreciate the strengthening of the Defence Explosives Department and the strengthening of staff capacity. However, I would ask the Minister what exactly the reinforcement of medical units means. Do we have to think about new ambulances, personal equipment from doctors and nursing and supplies of medicine? Can the Minister be even more explicit about this in her first reply? In increasing the practicability is the 9 million that is being added to increase the use of ammunition for training and training. The question to be asked here is whether this will be enough for this year, for 2016. Can both the mission units and the units remaining in the Netherlands exercise adequately in 2016? The amount for ammunition is somewhat low in the VVD fraction. Is that enough to fill all existing deficits? The preservation of knowledge in terms of tank action is not a policy that goes back and forth, but is, in our opinion, a sensible policy. The VVD also supports the substantial contribution made by the Minister for Support and Management. Certainly the acquisition chain, which we have often talked about in the Chamber, can use a little support, as it has suffered greatly from the cuts that were made in 2011. The Minister's labeling 10 million is a well-thought-out policy. By doing so, it indicates that it is using these resources for the units that are actually engaged in this task. Finally, NATO's new flashpower. Does the Minister expect much requested commitment to the VJTF in 2016? A separate word, I should say: a cry for attention is appropriate for the reservists. During the legislative consultation, I already informed the Minister that the VVD Group did not consider the army's cuts on reserves to be successful in 2015 and did not like it. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for the letter he wrote on Monday. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers has been accepted and partly concerned the reservist budget. It is a good thing that the Minister will make the estimated expenditure for reserveists visible separately from the 2017 budget. I am also pleased that a substantial amount of money is allocated to the reserveists from the resources to strengthen the basic capacity. I see that this will increase from 4 million in 2016 to 20 million in 2020. Speaking of the reservists, I had the pleasure of speaking during the presentation of the memory medals for the mission MINUSMA, last Friday at the IJsselhallen in Zwolle, a reserveist of the Air Force. I've agreed he'd recognize himself a little bit without me mentioning his name. For a certain number of months he had served at a headquarters in Bamako, in Mali. While handing out that medal, therefore, it took a little longer; the minister was not there, but I did a little too long about it, he personally convinced me how valuable his experience as a reservist in Bamako is for the rest of his life, and he also indicated what he could do with it in his civil service. He literally said to me, "Mr. Bitch, carry on with this." I said I'd pass that on to the minister, because she has to go through with it. The appreciation of those reservists is great and must be great; not only for those reservists, of course, but they really have a role to play. With regard to the increased investment budget, the Minister shows us in her letter last Monday that she wants to manage additional funds for investment as if it were a fund. I would like to ask the Minister whether multiannual defence agreements, both at national and international level, such as those made in Wales, could not lead to greater peace in the defence budget. A growth path to 2% of gross national product is nice, but do you implement it without national agreements between political parties and formations? I would like a response from the Minister. This also fits nicely with the performance on Radio 1 this morning by Mrs Margriet Drent van Clingendael. She could explain very well I could listen to it this morning in peace and quiet that it is very important that you sometimes make multi-annual arrangements. The Minister writes in her letter of Monday last. That small adjustments are still possible until the budget is incorporated into the first supplementary budget; there is a bit of the venom in her letter. She writes that the preparation for this is in full swing. That is good, but my group does not expect any very unpleasant sudden changes in today's picture until spring 2016. Can the Minister confirm that we are not getting any more of these very unexpected things? After all, that letter gives a bit of space for that. That should not be the intention, even in the light of this budget. The VVD Group welcomes this, let me put it this way, also to the fellow Members of Parliament, the Defence Realism of the Cabinet. The Van der Staaij II motion, tabled and adopted by the General Political Reviews in October of this year, therefore asked: further improvement of the basic capacity, reinforcement of the support units of the armed forces, targeted reinforcement of the fighting units and replacement of the necessary capacities. The Minister had that thought before Parliament, I say quite honestly. It is now taking vigorous steps to follow up the Van der Staaij I and II motions. Now to politics, I would almost say, which provides multiannual financial resources to consolidate this line as well. Those who look at the developments in the world cannot ignore the fact that the Netherlands and Europe face considerable challenges and dilemmas. To put it mildly: it is very restless in the shell around Europe. It bubbles, or rather, it cooks in the different countries in nearby regions. New hotspots and instability at the external borders of the European Union and NATO are taking place and the existing conflicts are growing inexhaustible. The examples are known: Ukraine, Syria and Mali. Last year and a half these things came very close to the Netherlands: July 17th is still engraved in our collective memory. A day when a war seemed far away, entered our living rooms and was forced upon us like a nightmare. Unfortunately, it was a nightmare from which awakening was not possible. At the same time, this terrible event has certainly awakened everyone in our security policy. Even the SP, I'd say. The same applies to the dramatic war in Syria and the rise of the brutal and ruthless IS in the Middle East. An organization that not only despises our way of life, but also our liberal values and achievements. What this organization appears to be capable of, we can also observe these days in the Sinai in Egypt, as it seems. The Netherlands cannot and must not look away from those developments that are staring us right in the face. It must pursue an assertive defence policy that focuses primarily on our own interests at our external borders. Those boundaries are under a lot of pressure. Think of the enormous migratory flows that have started in recent months towards Europe and the Netherlands. In September, the IND registered a record number of asylum seekers of 8,400 in one month. In addition to a domestic approach to deal with these numbers as streamlined as possible, there are also important aspects of our security policy that require solutions in this area. If we are to tackle this problem of migration at its root, action is needed. In doing so, our armed forces play an important role. First of all, you need to understand the origin and formation of migratory flows. The DOD can make an important contribution to this. In other words, work needs to be done to develop a comprehensive earlywarning strategy that also uses military means to structurally monitor and map migratory flows. If the military of the Netherlands are to go on a mission, substantial efforts will also have to be made to combat illegal migration. Within the missions, there is still much room for more effective targeting of trafficking in human beings. It is good to look again at the mandates for this. The fight against smoking should be built into the mandate of UN missions. This is where South Sudan, the Central African Republic and Lebanon can be seen. At the request of the VVD a start has been made with the inclusion of this aspect in the preamble of MINUSMA. The aim is not to allow this to be an exception, but a first step in the establishment of standard policies. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Secondly, I would like to mention the deployment of border guards at the Union's external borders. There are already dozens of military forces operating within Frontex. Is it possible to increase the use of the military force in this area? Furthermore, for the future, it is worth considering using Navy vessels to combat smugglers in the Mediterranean. I would just like to say that the Minister will find a listening ear at the VVD if these plans come into the docks at the Ministry. Frontex must change from a de facto mission as an expensive shuttle service for refugees and migrants to Europe, to a mission that really monitors the external borders of Europe and cuts off such shuttle service. The establishment of good care in the region is, of course, a precondition for this. Finally, it is worth considering using the EU Battlegroups at last for what they are intended to do. The VVD considers that these units should not be used alone for the sole reason of their use. However, if there are valid reasons for the use of this precious means, then that kindness must also be shown. In the opinion of the VVD, guarding reception camps can be such a valid reason. Does the Minister agree? In the coming years, the Netherlands will have to take into account the need to use our military force in the highest spectrum of violence. With the purchase of the F-35 a first step has been taken. States in eastern Europe, Russia, and in the Far East, China, are rapidly stepping up their defence efforts and modernising their already vast armed forces. This calls for the up-to-date knowledge of cyber warfare, the maintenance of niche capabilities to combat ballistic missiles, the collection of intelligence and the continued release of the financial resources I have already mentioned. Our military are extremely motivated, skilled and experienced, and must remain so. They must be able to work with equipment equivalent or superior to that of alleged opponents. That is the challenge of the 21st century, a hundred years after the end of the First World War. This century has only just begun, but once again inventive Dutch soldiers must be well trained and equipped. We cannot take responsibility for less as politicians. Only then can we expect our armed forces to rise above themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u47	You are way over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u48	I know that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u49	That means you don't have a second term. Or is it? Oh, yes, you have four minutes left. I thought you might have to negotiate with Mr Elias.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u50	No, I don't have to do that. I've got four minutes left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u51	That's it. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u52	This morning I read on the website of BNR a message with the headline "Bitches: Put anti-piracy soldiers in for surveillance outside border." Then I thought: hurray, hurray, the light breaks through at the VVD group! However, when I read it correctly, it turned out that Mr Teeven wanted the external borders of the European Union to be guarded by our soldiers who are still travelling around the Indian Ocean to fight pirates. The external borders of the European Union are designed to guard Mr Teeven. I say to Mr Teeven, through you, Mr President, that you are late, Mr Teeven, with that proposal. You're late. You should have supported that proposal when the PVV Group did so to ensure that these boats could not cross the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u54	That is what we advocated when the tsunami of lucky seekers from North Africa and the Middle East began. Then the VVD group was still asleep. Mr Teeven is making this proposal now, but he is just too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u56	What matters now is that the external borders of the Netherlands must be guarded. "Close borders," says the PVV Group. Make sure that our soldiers are now simply patrolling the borders of the Netherlands to stop all those lucky seekers who are already in Europe...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u58	...and prevent them all from entering the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. Bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u60	I've heard Mr. De Roon twist the strings. I've heard the PVV do that over the last two or three years, but I haven't heard a question. What is Mr De Roon's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u61	Does the VVD agree with the PVV that it is no longer just about the surveillance of the external borders of Europe, but that it should be primarily and principally about the surveillance of the external borders of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u62	It is about the external borders of Europe and it is about national borders. That's what I just said in my speech. So Mr De Roon did not listen very carefully. Combating illegal immigration is also a very important issue for the VVD Group. If Dutch soldiers go on a mission, this can also be part of the mission mission as far as we are concerned. When we are in Mali, the UN mandate is not supposed to allow us to focus on combating illegal migration. However, Dutch soldiers may also need to join in the surveillance of national borders. That could be very good. That's what the VVD sees. You cannot say that we agree with the PVV on this, because we have felt this for a very long time. I wanted to make this clear again this morning. If we can end the anti-piracy missions, because they have been very successful, and then on merchant ships we may be able to continue with armed citizens who can still tackle the possible small problems, then capacity may be released. That's what I argued for. Then it can be very useful to use that capacity at the external borders. For example, we can secure shelter camps in North Africa or in Asia, or we can put people back on the coast of Turkey. In my view, these are solutions that Mr De Roon does not say no to. I'll take a look at him. I'm trying to get a reaction from him, but I don't really see it happening yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr Teeven of the VVD Group is really late with the proposal to monitor Europe's external borders. That makes no sense now, or very little sense, because all those lucky seekers are already in Europe and will soon bring all their families here. It is now essential to close the Dutch external borders for lucky seekers. Mr Teeven is now saying that this may be necessary, but I do not hear him saying that we will do so. That is the answer Mr Teeven should give. Those external borders of the Netherlands must now be closed. They must be guarded by Dutch soldiers, so that the tsunami that already washes over Europe does not also hit the Netherlands to the full.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr De Roon, this was not a question. It was just...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr President, President...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u66	No, can I just have a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr President, I am being provoked! Come on, you're gonna let the PVV spokesperson speak for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u68	I haven't said anything yet, Mr. Bitch. Would you just hold on a second? Mr De Roon, you did not ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u69	You won't even give me the chance to finish my story! You're in the middle of it all the time. You really need to stop doing that. My story is essential. I am not guilty of any kind of elaborateness, but I would like to have the opportunity to make my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u70	That's what you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u71	No, I have not yet been able to make that point, because I have still not been able to put my question to Mr Teeven. Does he agree with the plea of the PVV Group that the external borders should now be closed and monitored by Dutch military forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u72	You could have asked this question earlier. You've needed a long run. This isn't the first time. This is the third time you've done this. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u73	Europe's external borders must be well guarded. There must be no rescue operations on the Mediterranean and the southern border of Europe must be guarded. The checks at national borders, the Dutch-Belgian border and the Dutch-German border must be intensified. Mr Dijkhoff, the Secretary of State, has shown that he is doing so. Those boundaries are guarded. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, military assistance is possible, whether it be the land force or the sea force. By the way, the sea border is also an external border of the Netherlands and of Europe, but that aside. So I do not agree with the PVV, I agree with the cabinet and its commitment. Mr De Roon and his captain or leader I do not know what they call him at the PVV, but the closing of borders is very complicated. Then you need to put down a fence. I do not think that is very good for the economic development of the Netherlands. That is my answer to Mr De Roon in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u74	Closing the borders is the only thing that works now. I still do not hear Mr Teven saying that it must be done now. I can only hear Mr Teeven say that the VVD is behind it when it is necessary. But he should say that the borders should be closed now, because that tsunami is there in Europe!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u75	I see the cabinet doing very sensible things. The cabinet also bears the responsibility for it. It is a pity that the PVV, when we had joint responsibility in the Rutte I cabinet, ran away from this. Now other people have the responsibility. They do sensible things. The VVD Group is also in favour of supporting this. If the PVV is ever gonna take responsibility again, I don't know if that's ever gonna happen again, you'll see that sometimes reality is more uncomfortable when you want to do things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u76	It was a nice story by Mr Bitch, but the core of this debate is the NATO standard of 2%. When is the VVD really going to stand behind the Defense Department and comply with that NATO 2% standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u77	I am very pleased with the growth path agreed by this Minister in Wales on the growth towards the NATO standard of 2%. That's what's supposed to happen there in Wales. I think it is very important that the motion tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on this subject should provide the framework for this. I'm gonna say that again. This motion by Mr Van der Staaij II, the name of which was mentioned for the third time today, was a sensible motion, so that is what Mr Bontes and I are thinking. The VVD Group wants structural financial resources to be released in the coming years. The Minister states in her letter that she expects it to be. The Prime Minister also expressed this in the Officers' Training after the General Political Reviews. There's the VVD Group. Within the responsibility we bear, this is the way we want to go with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u78	To meet this 2% NATO standard, a ten-year timetable has been set, but I do not see this in the pieces. I do not see that within ten years or ten years we will be at that 2%. So the VVD simply leaves our national security to our allies. The VVD has our allies pinned down for that safety. If you look closely, we can no longer fight at the highest level and wage war. At the end of his speech, Mr Teeven says that he wants to, but we can't. General De Kruif has said that we can no longer wage war at the highest level, and yet I do not hear from the VVD a clear timetable guaranteeing that we will be at that 2% in ten years' time. Can I get that guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u79	Guarantees are never given by political groups. Guarantees can never be given 100% in politics. That is the hallmark of politics. That is one of the reasons why I am extremely enthusiastic about the multi-annual arrangements with which the matter is somewhat depoliticized. Then you can give more guarantees to soldiers who have to do the execution. In that sense, that is a very interesting plan. With these additional resources, which have been made available for 2016, you are indeed not achieving the growth path agreed in Wales. This means that what has been agreed with the Van der Staaij II motion by Mr Bontes' group, my group and many other groups must be done, namely that we are going to achieve that growth path. This means the use of additional resources, including from 2017 and 2018. I can give Mr Bontes the assurance that the VVD will be committed to this. I am also glad to find Mr Bontes by my side, because it is always constructive when people think along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u80	I would like to talk about the fight against piracy and private security. The coalition parties VVD and Party of Labour are opposed to each other on this point. The position of the Labour Party is that we should not remove the marine emissions and the ships we have there immediately. We see that it helps, the piracy is decreasing, and so we see no need for those private security guards. So I can follow the position of the PvdA, but not that of the VVD. The VVD argues that piracy is decreasing, that the ships can leave, but the party remains in favour of private security. Can Mr Teeven explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u81	Oh, yeah. I'd love to do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u82	Short, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u83	That can be very short. Mrs Hachchi and I had an exchange of views on this during the general discussion. Apparently, I wasn't clear on that, so I'm gonna try again. Our navy and our marines have done tremendously good work in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia. They have ensured that the threat has been substantially reduced. We all agree on that. We are getting reports on this and it also turns out that people are going there to inform themselves of how things are going there. That doesn't mean that the threat is completely gone, but it does mean that you have to see if you have to maintain these military forces there or if you withdraw them and otherwise implement the protection of the merchant navy. It can't be surprising that the VVD group has been thinking for a very long time that it can do so in a different way. We are now awaiting the cabinet's opinion on this. I called on the Minister last week to come up with that position quickly, and I understand that position is coming. So we have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u84	It doesn't make any sense. We also had the fundamental discussion in this House about removing the state's monopoly of violence and then allowing private security. If piracy decreases, it does not make sense for the VVD group to continue to insist that these private security guards should get there. I challenge Mr Teven to respond to that. He is doing it again very nice and it is also very nice to listen to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u86	... but where he says he has asked the Minister to come up with a position, I would point out to him that the PvdA, his coalition partner, does not want it. I would also like to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u87	There is still a decision to be taken in the Cabinet, as we established last week during the general consultation. I and my colleague from the PvdA Group did not agree and I still do not think we are today. That's okay, because you don't have to agree on everything when you rule together. Mrs Hachchi and I do not agree on the monopoly of violence. D66 is very rigid in that, while you could secure those ships much cheaper and in a much more effective way. It is a pity that a cost-conscious party such as D66 is not open to this and that it does not support action at European level in favour of international peace, for which D66 is always very much in favour, as far as the Mediterranean is concerned. If the Navy and the Marines in the Gulf of Aden do a good job, it becomes substantially safer there and there is less piracy but still some threat, then surely you can't maintain the military in that place and you couldn't use them somewhere else while you can do the merchant security in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u88	I have the impression that the general consultation is being repeated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u89	But questions are being asked. Mrs. Hachchi didn't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u90	The general consultation is not being repeated, because I hear Mr Teeven say new things here and there. In the debate on the monopoly of violence, I find it very easy for Mr Teeven to shrug his shoulders, which means that he thinks it is very rigid that a number of parties want to have a fundamental discussion about it. However, a number of parties point to the question of whether this need to deploy private security is there and whether there are no other ways to tackle that problem. I hear Mr Bitch admit that piracy is decreasing. I'm sticking to my political point. I understand that Mr Teeven easily passes that on to the cabinet every time. It is this coalition that keeps up the appearance that there may be private security, while we know that the coalition parties are directly opposed to each other. The PvdA Group has recently said that it will at least not change its position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u91	This is not a question either. I don't know what's going on, but everyone seems to need to make a statement anyway. You have your own speaking time for that. Mr Teeven, you may respond briefly, but you do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u92	I am always prepared to have a discussion of principle with D66, but we must also, of course, try to solve things. And you shouldn't go on forever wasting taxpayers' money, something that D66 is always against. It's about the good work of the military. It might be cheaper, they might be needed somewhere else badly, so why shouldn't we? That is my response to Mrs Hachchi's interruption. Then I'll hear what D66 can make sense of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u93	I'm just trying to figure out how cheap this test balloon is. Of course, Mr Teeven has every right to launch ideas on behalf of his party, but he knows that the House of Representatives has already said: we are not going to use private security in the fight against the pirates. So the message "we stop the antipiracy mission and we go to the Mediterranean" is nice for in the newspaper or on the radio, but that's not gonna happen at all. Mr Teven knows that too. After all, there is no majority in favour. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. There was once a wise man, I think he was chairman of your party. That was Mr Vredeling. He said, "Roommates don't buy jets."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u95	It wasn't mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u96	No, it belonged to the chairman's party. I looked at the chairman, too. It wasn't yours. Your party has never delivered ministers. Mr Vredeling said that Members of Parliament do not buy fighter jets. I say to Mr Van Dijk: Members of Parliament do not decide how missions are carried out in the Gulf of Aden. That's up to the cabinet. In that cabinet there are ministers of different political views and they must convince each other of the best solution. That's what we're waiting for right now. Well, and we'll wait for that. And if the cabinet has made a decision, we'll come back and say what we think of that decision. But as long as we don't know the decision of the cabinet, I don't have much to do with discussions on what might be decided. Mr Van Dijk assumes that it will not happen. I trust there will be a sensible decision. And we'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u97	It wasn't "Roommates don't buy jets," but it was "Congresses don't buy jets."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u98	Roommates don't buy jets either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u99	This speech by Mr Teeven is really contradictory. When he says "Roommates don't buy fighter jets but Fred Teeven hires private security," that's obviously totally contradictory. Is he saying that the cabinet has to take the decision, or is he making the decision, as he said this morning on the radio broadcast? He said there: we can arrange private security in Somalia and then we can take our navy to the Mediterranean Sea. Then he makes that decision, which doesn't even have a majority, by the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u100	Political parties express positions, give opinions and say what should happen in society. Kabinets make decisions and then we assess them afterwards. I believe that we are dealing with the anti-piracy mission, its results and what could happen afterwards, both in terms of private security and in terms of a different deployment of the Navy, at the stage where the Cabinet has to take a decision. It's been there for a while. I think that's familiar. We'll see who convinces each other how. And of course I can count. But maybe we can convince someone here, too. You never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u101	I would like to go back in history, to September 2014, when Mr Teeven was still catching bad guys in the cabinet. Then the Minister of Defense and the Prime Minister went to Wales. There was an agreement made to which Mr Bontes also referred. This agreement means that all NATO Member States are making efforts to increase to 2% in a ten-year timeframe. Now I would like to tell Mr Teeven the following, because he made an extremely complimentary story in the direction of the cabinet. He said that the percentage of the gross national product we spend on Defence has remained the same in recent years, again next year, 1.14%. You can see that in all kinds of ways. We still have eight out of the 10 years mentioned. How does Mr Teeven see the future path of growth in order to achieve the objective he has just referred to in his own speech, including in response to questions from Mr Bontes? How are we going to achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr Knops certainly has a point, because we are now actually growing 1.13%, so we will not make it. We do have eight more years to go. This means that in addition to this structural increase in the Defence budget for the year 2016, the VVD Group believes this should also be done in the coming years. So also in years 2017 to 2021 and beyond and in the years 2018 to 2022 and beyond, there will have to be a similar substantial amount as this year and perhaps even a little higher to ensure that we get within the growth path agreed by the Minister in Wales. Otherwise, we won't make it. We agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u103	Finally, Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP, who discussed the Defence budget last year, had a very nice calculation of what would be needed for this. Every year you don't deliver it, you have to deliver a lot more the years after that. Is Mr Teeven going to see it, or is it conceivable for him that the cabinet will not come up with additional resources in the spring note to fill in the Van der Staaij motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u105	The cabinet has now come up with additional resources for 2016 and it will have to decide on additional resources from 2017 and later at the latest in the summer of 2016. Well, that's got to happen that summer. The current circumstances and the challenges we are facing and the story that we must keep a missionary force and a conventional force in Eastern Europe on track that can compete with the most modern weapons if necessary, with motivated people and skill, call again for additional investments. I heard the Minister say it in her letter behind the hook, I heard the Prime Minister say it at the graduation of officers' diplomas and I heard the Chamber say it in the second Van der Staaij motion. It is also entirely in line with what the VVD group wants. If this can be achieved within multiannual defence agreements by depoliticising this debate a little bit and giving military more security over the next five years, then the VVD Group is strongly in favour of it. Then you'll find us by your side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr. Chairman. It's starting to be a tradition. I have nothing against tradition at all, but I would rather ignore it, namely the feeling that the cabinet is running away from the facts. This is an uncomfortable feeling, which I get from the visits I have made over the past period, often with colleagues, to military units, but also in conversations I have had with defence experts and in the round tables we have had, which show how much the need is. Last week, we saw the Reconnaissance update. Compliments for the professional way this process was picked up in 2010 but also since then in annual updates. If you look back at the analysis that was made at the time, you have to acknowledge that since then a lot has come out of what was taken into account. There's a perfect storm pulling together around Europe. In the east, Putin's green males showed up and then tanks waltzed into Ukraine. And now Russia is rolling the muscle in Syria. It surprises a lot of people, but the Reconnaissances already outlined the possibility for such a scenario in 2010. In the south, on the other side of the Mediterranean, the Arab Spring is degenerate into chaos, war and Islamic fundamentalism. Europe is faced with the consequences, such as the flow of refugees and the threat of terrorism. The analysis was and is very accurate. What bothers our group is that political action on this basis, especially if you look back to 2010, has been seriously flawed. There are many things that are discussed in this Chamber. There are far fewer things this Chamber is really about, really can make its mark. One of them is the unique responsibility we have for our collective security, recognition and awareness that the government has a direct responsibility here, Cabinet and Chamber, all 150 Members in this Parliament, as we are here. There is no such thing as SP security or PvdA security. Safety concerns every resident of the Netherlands. The conflict can come to us. Geopolitics has been back from never. The developments are going very fast. There is an increasing importance of high politicians instead of low politicians. The velvet glove of diplomacy also needs an iron fist. A classic challenge as deterrent is all over again. But the military I have spoken to over the past few years have fewer and fewer colleagues. The organization has been reduced. Material stands still and exercises are cancelled. Some types of ammo are just out. The economic crisis is over, as we hear the cabinet say, and there is also money for 5 billion relief, but the consequences are far from over in the defence sector. The Commander of the Armed Forces rang the alarm several times. His colleagues also did. He said we're on the edge. That is a signal from the Defence Organization to politics and society. In all armies, everything is too short or too little. There is too much demand for too few people and the armed forces crack in the joints. With their can-domality, our military have carried the organization. There is a high workload. The same work must be done with fewer people. Efficiency sometimes seems to exceed effectiveness and the fat is from the bones. The motto "continuing where others stop" has been put into practice in several ways. With great respect, I would like to thank all the soldiers and civilians who are often working far away from home and under difficult conditions for our security. As the world becomes more unsafe, the defense has less and less to spend. Purchasing power is falling. In these turbulent times, vision, leadership and perspective are needed. Unfortunately, I don't see enough of that in this coalition. We see a minister who spends the night in an igloo, jumps out of a plane and walks along with a mountain training course, a minister who is visibly involved in Defense and who, if we can believe De Telegraaf, but I understand that this is no longer possible today, has submitted a wish list of 1 billion to the cabinet. That is extremely realistic. But apart from these fine words and intentions, very few of these wishes and ambitions came to pass. Defence expenditure is at an historic low. The Netherlands has never spent so little on Defence, never had such a small military force. The CBS has calculated that the Netherlands has even the smallest military force in Europe, measured by the number of inhabitants. I ask the Minister whether this is true and, if so, what her political opinion is on this matter. 2015 was a lost year. Defence expenditure even fell as a percentage of GDP, despite additional money. The Minister mentioned such a decline on 30 April of this year as unacceptable and yet it has happened. What does the Minister think about her not being able to live up to her own words? In a small debate with Mr Teeven, I mentioned the 1.14% GDP and the commitments made by this Minister in Wales. How are we going to complete the remaining path of those eight years? Or does this fall into the category of broken promises? For years efficiency has been put above effectiveness. Of course, we can trust that every euro, including in defence, is well spent, but Defence is simply an availability organisation that you hope will not need in the end. But if you need it, if you're gonna appeal to it, it's gonna have to be there with enough resources and enough trained people. By treating defence in all models and in politics, I say this in the direction of the Chamber, not only in the direction of the Minister, as an organisation of efficiency, we do not recognize the unique nature of this organisation. What would happen if we approached the police or the fire department like this? We wouldn't accept that the firefighter's driving times would be infinitely long, would we? We wouldn't accept that in this country. Then why do you have to go to the DOD? The result of all these actions in recent years, even in the time when we ourselves were in the cabinet, is that an increasing use was made of the armed forces, while employability was under pressure. There is fragmentation and this leads to problems. The CDS already pointed to the great pressure of the enablings. What does the Minister do to restore it? The cabinet hears the bell ringing, but I wonder if it's always clear where the clapper is. "How did we get into this mess" and how do we get out? There have been a lot of cuts in recent years. I would like to know what the structural effects are. Is the armed forces really in order now? Is the Minister prepared to have the Court of Auditors look at this, as was the case with the AIVD? It emerged that politics has cut far too much, with damaging long-term consequences. Do we still fulfil our constitutional tasks? The ultimate lower limit is, as far as we are concerned, national security. Unmanned planes and genius tanks remain on the ground and the explosives disposal service is subject to restrictions. Fortunately, the Minister is recovering the cuts on the reserves. I congratulate you on that, Mr Teeven. But what about the rest? The additional border controls by the military police also put pressure on the organisation. How's the Minister handling that? Can the armed forces carry out all national tasks properly? The Minister has not carried out three crucial motions. Firstly, the Van der Staaij I motion: the level of ambition is not adjusted to the deteriorating security situation. Secondly, these are two motions from, among other things, my hand on price compensation and exchange rates. All three are being pushed forward. A gaping gap has been struck between ambitions and resources. That hole is only partially closed. It will be even bigger in the future if there is no more money. A huge amount of overdue investment casts its shadow ahead. There is also too little budget for future investment and many projects are being pushed forward. The Navy is threatening to sink a bit and the next seven years there will be no money for the MALE UAV. According to experts, at least 750 million is needed to solve the problems. Our group wants openness. How much is it gonna take to really get the armed forces in order? Why doesn't the Minister want to give this openness? Our group wants more urgency and more speed. The reconstruction of the armed forces takes time and money. With too little money, it's gonna take longer. We want to improve the continuity capacity and again call on the Minister to keep the compass focused on a versatile armed force. So do not sell any equipment that is needed for this, such as the Houwitsers and mine hunters, and reactivate the fourth Patriot battery.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr Knops is always standing up as the great savior of Defense. The budget isn't enough, so we need more money. I am afraid that the CDA Group's mouth on this point is bigger than the wallet allows. I am also afraid, however, that Mr Knops is constantly telling half the story. He does not say that his group has in recent years agreed to all the imaginable missions that were on the table. Those were missions that cost tons of money and destroyed and destroyed our armed forces. A lot of money has been put into it, but it hasn't worked. I'm thinking of missions to Afghanistan, Libya and Mali. They all cost tons of money and almost nothing for the Netherlands. If you waste the money in that way, of course you won't have any money left to maintain the quality of our armed forces. It would be a credit to Mr Knops and the CDA if they acknowledged that they had made mistakes in the past on these points. Those missions didn't do us any good. We should stop spending money on all kinds of missions that yield nothing or very little for the Netherlands, so that we can spend that money in a different, better way. Does Mr Knops agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u108	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u109	Then I would like to have an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u110	I wouldn't count that as interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u111	He must have thought, "Let De Roon spend his second term on that." That's what I'm doing here. I would like to hear a detailed explanation from Mr Knops on why he wants to continue spending money on missions that do not produce anything for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u112	I have a number of observations on the theories put forward by Mr De Roon. A lot of missions wouldn't have worked out and would be a waste of money. Look, the world has changed. We can re-assess the missions of the past few years, but I don't think we should do that. We have had this discussion in detail in the context of the Article 100 procedure. I respect that Mr De Roon's group has different views on a number of points from those of my own group. But we cannot deny that today's world requires action beyond our borders. If necessary, we must act in a coalition or in a UN context. It has been said that missions outside the Netherlands are indeed part of the core tasks of our armed forces. We need to address the threat where she is to prevent her coming to the Netherlands. That is something Mr De Roon's group always says. So it's not fair to say: we don't do missions, but we do build up a military force, creating a safer world. Unfortunately, that is not the reality. If we could avoid missions, we would certainly do so. The responsibility of the Netherlands extends to all kinds of matters, such as the crisis in the Middle East, in order to ensure that the problems do not reach us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u113	That all sounds very reasonable what Mr Knops is saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u114	It is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u115	... yet I note that his group has in the past agreed to all kinds of missions, which my group said: do not do so, because that is not going to work for the Netherlands. However, the CDA, as has been said, has agreed to pour in a lot of money. Does the CDA intend to be more reluctant in future to agree to all kinds of missions in deserts such as Sahara or Central Asia? Is the CDA prepared to argue with the PVV Group for those things that are essential only for the security of the Netherlands, such as closing our external borders, for which military efforts are simply necessary to stop the tsunami of asylum seekers and fortune seekers from North Africa and the Middle East before they are within our borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr De Roon makes a kind of distinction between the importance of the Netherlands and that of Europe. The problem is that these interests are getting more and more mixed up. You can no longer simply peel off the interests of the Netherlands. We are in the EU, we are part of NATO. We want to protect the community of values we represent from threats from outside. Then it will be necessary to act at set times. Of course, no one acts outside our national borders, which involves risks, without proper decision-making after the exchange of all the arguments. But sometimes it's necessary. The military is there not only for the security and protection of our territory, but also for the fight against things such as piracy. These missions do support Mr De Roon's group if they are carried out within NATO. The idea that you would withdraw to the Netherlands and close the borders, creating a safe environment, I do not share at all. Whether we like it or not, the world has changed so much that various reports show that we have to take into account that we have to make even more effort outside our territory in the coming years. The political consequence of this is that I argue in my contribution that you should spend more money on Defence rather than less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u117	Were you finishing up, Mr. Knops?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u118	I can start with my rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr Knops started his reaction by saying that the interests of the Netherlands and those of Europe are increasingly interwoven and increasingly interwoven. I think that's a false representation of business. The interests of the Netherlands are very clear to define and distinguish, much more than the interests of the power holders in Brussels, the EU, who are constantly trying to put aside the interests of the Netherlands in the interest of what they see as the higher goal. It is very easy to separate these interests and to say: these are the interests of the Netherlands and those are the interests of the power holders in Brussels. Stop chasing after the power holders in Brussels and just opt for the safety of the Netherlands. At the moment, this does not require open borders, nor do we need happiness seekers from the Middle East and North Africa who can effortlessly enter Europe. Do like Germany and just say: those borders must be closed, we must send those lucky seekers back. Surely Mr Knops will agree with me that these limits can only be effectively guarded by the use of Dutch military forces?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u120	For a brief response, Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u121	My theorem is reversed. Europe's external borders can only be monitored by working together in Europe. I do not understand why Mr De Roon is trying to tear the Netherlands and Europe apart in this way. The international security interests of the European Member States and the Netherlands are, as far as I am concerned, almost parallel. We will have to work together to ensure that safety. The Netherlands is also required to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u122	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u123	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Europe has made a mess of things with regard to the influx of all those asylum seekers from Africa and the Middle East. We must not leave that in the hands of Europe anymore. We simply have to choose for ourselves, for our own country, for our own elderly people who are short because money that should go to them is being put into all kinds of nonsense like Europe. We should stop doing that now. That is my question to Mr Knops: stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u124	I always have a bit of a problem with a comparison between safety and the elderly. Whether it's about health care or education, that's only possible if you get your safety in order. In recent years, we have thought that security would be there, that we could rise in the Maslow pyramid to infinite heights with regard to self-development and all kinds of other things that, as I said, are important in themselves. In the end, however, the basis must be in order. I would like to see a broad recognition in this Chamber of the notion that we must first have the basis on order. Then we can talk about these other things afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u125	As the daughter of lucky seekers, I have a question for Mr Knops. Words are beautiful, but ultimately they're about deeds. I will not mention Rutte I, because Mr Knops has even apologized. Let us look at what the CDA is doing from the opposition. I have seen the amendment tabled by Mr Knops together with a colleague. The CDA is releasing $200 million. Mr Knops also says this very often, in various debates. From the point of view of coverage, I would like to summarize it, because I want to be brief. However, the Secretary of State for Finance is simply cutting it down. I'd like to hear a response from the CDA spokesperson.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u126	That could be. To be honest, I have experienced many times that the Secretary of State for Finance is cutting something off. This is then done because of a political motivation. That's okay, that's okay, that's okay. That's okay. That's okay. That's okay. That's okay. This is just a just-covered amendment for 200 million. I submitted this together with Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP. Again, in politics, it's all about making choices. There will also be parts that other parties do not appreciate. We'll make that choice. So I'm gonna distance myself from those words. I also know that it is not, because the amendment is simply properly covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mrs. Hachchi, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u128	Politics is about making promises and hopefully making promises. I think the CDA was the party that was opposed to burden-sharing. One of the arguments put forward by the Secretary of State Wiebes is: this is a very substantial debt burden. How does the CDA view it from that perspective? This has been a crucial point. If this amendment is rejected, does that mean that the CDA Group will vote against the Defence budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u129	This increase in charges is undoubtedly an indication of the 100 million covered by the gambling tax. That's the gambling tax. That is indeed a burden increase. We believe that this is justified, contrary to the importance of safety. We make the choice for more security, for more money for the Defense Department. As far as all the questions on amendments and votes are concerned, Mrs Hachchi will understand that I am not going to answer them now. The debate has just begun, and it seems to me that it would be a good idea to complete it in order first. After that, our groups will draw conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u130	Then I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u131	The time that is mentioned here is the time that remains, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u132	Yes, you have about a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u133	I think Mrs Eijsink wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u134	This is almost entrapment; I wouldn't dare walk back. We have heard from Mr Knops again the usual riedel, I would almost say: questions about the unique character of the organization and "how did we get into this mess?'. I know the answers, but I do not need to look back with Mr Knops, because that is Rutte I again and you name it. I think we're here to look forward, too. I would like to say to Mr Knops that I do not agree at all, as everyone here will know. So I am not going to waste any more words on that. Yesterday I read that Mr Knops has ideas about the model of Multi-year Defence Agreements. Mrs Drent and Mrs Meijnders van Clingendael, who have written about this, have already been mentioned. The Minister wrote a letter to the Chamber on behalf of the government on 15 September. Given Mr Knops' limited speaking time, I would like to give him the opportunity to say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u135	I'd be happy to. Mrs. Eijsink does challenge me a little bit. She very quickly mentions in her introduction all kinds of things that she doesn't want to dirty words, and by doing so she suggests that I say all things that don't add up. I would like to distance myself from that, and I suggest that Mrs Eijsink does the same. We can differ on how and why. I have all the texts and figures from the past few years on the table. Mrs Hachchi rightly said that I already apologized last year for what happened and that I was led by CDA executives. I take responsibility for that, and I'm not going to get out of my way. I hope, however, that Mrs Eijsink does not suggest that what I have said about this in the past would not be taken seriously. Perhaps it is a good thing that Mrs Eijsink responds to that, then I will answer her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u136	Mrs. Eijsink, would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u137	I always take Mr Knops seriously, I would not dare otherwise. We have already exchanged this with each other so many times; Mr Knops is nodding again. We may all want to apologize for something, but that does not mean that the consequences for the unique character of the armed forces, as you call them, are of course not palpable. The Rutte I cabinet fell in April 2012. Then we had all those cuts that had to be made, so let's not pretend that everything that has positive effects today doesn't have that effect. I will come back to that in my own contribution, but we share that. If that is what we mean, Mr Knops, then we will find each other somewhere in the middle, and perhaps we will find each other in the multiannual plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u138	Clear. I would like to explain once again, before the Acts, what we have done in recent years since that cabinet which has already been discussed a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u139	Preferably not extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u140	I can do that in one sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u141	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u142	I'll just mention the totals, then everyone gets a picture. In recent years, we have added 630 million to alternative budgets. I am a little tired of apologizing every year because we then acted on it. Let this be a bridge to the future, because Mrs Eijsink would like to go there. Safety is not something of one party or another; I have said this before in my speech. You can differ on how a military force should be set up, you can also differ on the tasks that a military force should perform, but I can assume that everyone here wants to live in a safe country and in a safe Europe. That requires a certain effort, so any attempt to depoliticize that............................................................................................................................................................................................ It should not be a game or a low-politics debate, it should be a high-politics debate. This is about something that the Chamber is explicitly about. It is not about something about which a city council or provincial states are concerned, but it is exclusively reserved for Chamber and Cabinet. That is why it is good to make multi-annual agreements. Then we are reliable to our allies, the armed forces can build a decent investment rhythm, we do not throw money over the bar every time very volatilely dealing with budgets and it does not depend on which cabinet there is. We wholeheartedly support a further development in this direction. I see Mrs Eijsink nods satisfied. I would like to say to the Minister: include the element of staff and organisation in the implementation of the Van der Staaij motion. To date, the Minister has indicated that she is not prepared to do so. Another point of interest to the Minister is the provision of information to the Chamber for our group. On this point too, too little and too late. The additional resources were not well substantiated in the budget. We have now received a letter, but even there are pm posts. I would like to join with Mr Teeven in his questions on this point. We must be able to establish a sound budget, which is crucial for our group. Then there is the question of why the Minister has still not responded to the AIV opinion on the armed forces. The AIV wants more money, a delta plan for the armed forces, and warns that the armed forces have become a light army. As far as we are concerned, that is right, but the Minister does not yet want to respond. She does the same in response to my parliamentary questions about salafism. The deadline for replying had already expired, and I have reappeared, and now the answers are only coming after this debate. That deprives me of the opportunity to discuss this fundamental issue with the Minister. I would really like a comprehensive response from the Minister on this point. At first, she didn't want salafists, then she did if they didn't use force. Again, I do not think it is very decisive. Surely the Minister can be quite clear and clear about this, even in the light of my motion for a resolution and the motion adopted by Mr Potters? Finally, I come to the budget for international security. The cabinet plus 60 million, but earlier the same amount was taken away from the Defense Department. The mission against IS is still funded with a cash drawer from the years 2017-2019 and here too we call on the cabinet not to push forward, but to tackle it. We also call on the Minister once again to retain all BIV funds for Defence and to use them for missions. There are still many questions and there is still a great deal of uncertainty. Our group would like clear commitments and guarantees from the Minister. According to the magazine Opzij, the minister is the most influential woman in the Netherlands. It is good that we can have her here in our midst, but if she has so much power, let her use it to get more money for Defence. A lot of political groups in the House of Representatives are the prime minister's group; Mr Teven was quite clear about that. We will support that, too. As far as I am concerned, next year the Minister may be declared the most influential woman in the Netherlands. As has been said, our group is allocating EUR 200 million to the defence sector. I would ask the Minister and the political groups present to follow that example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u143	Before I give the floor to Mrs Eijsink, I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u144	Mr. Chairman. It would be nice if colleagues could join us when I start my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u145	A vast majority of my fellow Members are present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. "What, your man standing?" Last Monday I attended the fourth Veteran lecture on the female veterans. That's about 6,000 of the 110,000 veterans we have. It was a wonderful afternoon with attention for our female veterans who served actively and are now post-active veteran. Thanks to our veterans, to active servants, to civilians, to reservists. Thank you to enthusiastic, motivated people who do the invisible and visible work of our armed forces, for example as regards reception in refugee camps, our missions, such as Mali, but also the smaller missions, such as Burundi or elsewhere. I am also thinking of the work being done at NATO headquarters in Naples, where Mr Knops and I met colleagues from the Minister two weeks ago. This concerns 3D, and not the usual 3D, but action, courage and perseverance. That's what our soldiers are for. Thank you on behalf of the PvdA Group for this commitment. It's a special day today, because it's Veterans Day in the United States. Let us be honest: we have learned a lot from that. "The government is committed to international cooperation and an integrated approach in foreign policy, including in the EU, NATO and UN context. Military and legal actions must go hand in hand with building society, strengthening the rule of law, diplomacy in the region, emergency aid and trade promotion. For NATO, Member States want to ensure that the alliance is able to respond more quickly to threats from any direction of the wind. This requires adjustments, both in political decision-making and in military terms. The government will provide structural additional funds to the armed forces from €220 million next year to € 345 million in later years. This money will be used, inter alia, to further improve operational employability. In addition, structural extra money will be made available for the Dutch participation in military missions. The way in which Dutch soldiers work for peace and security impresses and inspires admiration." On 15 September 2015, King Willem-Alexander spoke in the eulogy of the throne. This sums up nicely what we're talking about today. The future cannot be predicted. Relationships between countries change where contrasts have been intensified. This raises the question of what significance this has for the European Union and for the Netherlands. Is Europe a player or a toy between the great powers? We live in a complex reality. What is to be done and where are we? What do we have available? How do we strengthen our cooperation, including by deepening cooperation with allies? We need to be deployable quickly. The Labour Party has been in favour of the EU Battlegroups and NATO Response Force and the early deployment of the VJTF, the Very High Readiness Joint Task Force. We're contributing. It is, of course, important that we have worked out our measures accordingly. Fortunately, in the wake of the legislative consultation last week, the Minister sent the measures to strengthen the basic legitimacy in a letter to the Chamber. Like colleagues, I have a few questions about this. The basic readiness, with emphasis on "base," is, of course, very important. I do not see how the effects of the additional investments are being passed on. Can the Minister respond to that? The Minister has written a letter in which this has been worked out. I can live with that until now. A more detailed analysis, particularly as regards the intended effects, is desirable, as it is also the transmission of the 345 million for the following years. A commitment has been made on personnel policy. It says the organic stuffing is being increased by 20 million for reservists. First, I have a few questions about the reservists. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the policy is in its infancy. We must move towards a fully-fledged policy rather than that flexible shell. I'm asking the Minister to respond to this. If 20 000 reservists are the ambition in 2013, we need to clarify the level of ambition and, indeed, thank you for that, a separate budget should be included in the next year's budget: from a flexible shell to a full-fledged place in the budget and in society, just as we used to have compulsory service. This is also about support in our society. I ask the Minister to indicate a timetable and I ask her how she will continue to fulfil this responsibility. The Minister also talks about international cooperation, tanks and additional investments. What does this cooperation with the Germans mean? I understand we have about 100 people available for this. What does this mean for years to come? What does this mean, both in terms of commitment and in terms of numbers, of course, the Chamber is ultimately talking about "in terms of training" and "in terms of relational numbers"? From the airmobile brigade we know that: a ratio of 10,000 among the Germans to 2,000 in the Netherlands. But how about this on the side of the Netherlands itself? About the VJTF we received a good report from the AIV and we get another cabinet response to it. That fast-paced power, that VJTF, is of great importance, where exactly are we on the point of employability? Part of this is, of course, political decision-making on our part, but part of it is also about how we stand in cooperation with other countries. This cooperation is about deepening, I say in particular: deepening with a limited number of countries. According to the letter of 7 November, this concerns Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg, Denmark, France, Norway, the United Kingdom and the US. That's what the PvdA insisted on. My next point is multi-annual cooperation. It also has to do with the budgets and budgets of allies. There's no way around that anymore. I refer to a proposal which was already requested by the Chamber last year but which was sent to the Chamber on 15 September this year. I'm talking about multi-year defence agreements, from Clingendael. Mr Knops and I were with the Danish colleagues a few years ago. There we have been informed about multi-annual plans on how to work together nationally first. Let us be honest: European cooperation requires national cooperation first. Since this Chamber has many parties, both opposition parties and coalition parties, we will still have to go to that cooperation. My group would welcome it if we could discuss it as a Chamber. Stability, including for our military, is important for the future. In view of the Minister's response of 15 September, I would like to ask her how the Van der Staaij II motion on the multiannual perspective can be linked to possible multiannual plans. It is also fantastic: Mr Van der Staaij is rarely in our debates, but he has already been mentioned for the tenth time. I say that this is, of course, also a discussion of the Chamber, of my colleagues and of political parties, but the government should also be able to look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u147	I am trying to understand what Mrs Eijsink is saying here. It refers to the multiannual plans. In the media I read a piece in which Mrs Eijsink was also quoted. This can be translated in such a way that it wants to record the budget, the budget, of the Defense Department for several years. How does Mrs. Eijsink see this? Is this related to this further cooperation with partners? Are those parts stuck? Or does the PvdA want the Defence budget to be fixed for a longer period of time, so that there will be no more cuts and no changes? What does the PvdA mean at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u148	I thank Mr Hachchi for this question. We have all seen in recent years that the political landscape has not become more stable. However, international cooperation requires some kind of predictability. I know D66 as a party which, like the PvdA, has been in favour of European cooperation for years. I think that the lesson of recent years is that, if we want to work together with the Germans and the United Kingdom, our colleagues there as well as the citizens there need predictability and at least confidence. Let me give you an example of why this is so on my retina. When the government fell in February 2010 and we voted under Rutte I for austerity, there were Dutch soldiers in Afghanistan. While they were still in the mission area, they got the message that their job would have been cut off if they came back to the Netherlands: thank you for doing your work for the people and the country. That's not predictability to our own military. We must prevent that. I'm charging myself for that; that's a heavy responsibility. The same applies, of course, in cooperation with other countries. If you want reliability in the security sector, as Mr Knops rightly said, there must be predictability and continuity. This is, of course, also about the available budgets. I'm not saying that you're actually setting these budgets in advance. No, it is about thinking together and thinking about what security and the deployment of our armed forces mean. The three d's in other forms, defence, diplomacy and development, which we also preach here, also require this coherence. It is now, in my view, time, in view of the learning experience of recent years, that we also see an opportunity to depoliticize it, at least in a joint conversation. I think the momentum is there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mrs Eijsink uses many words to explain, but it has not become much clearer. I can follow her to the point where she says that we are working with the European partners, that we are becoming dependent on each other and that we must therefore be able to rely on each other in terms of budgets for the long term. So far I can track her. However, the multiannual plan, the multi-year defence agreement, is used here by many to say that we must depoliticise the defence budget. Mrs. Eijsink ended up with that, too. So that is actually a budget that you have to fix for the long term. Which of these two variants does she choose now? From the reports in the newspapers, I conclude that Mrs Eijsink agrees with the parties who say that the defence budget should be fully committed for the coming years. I wonder if this will be a new point for the Defence section of the Labour Party's election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u150	For the record, I have the article in front of me and I know very well what I said. For the Acts: those are not my quotes. Let me give you another example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u151	Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u152	In 2006 this Chamber for the first time talked about a veteran law. I refer to former MP Remi Poppe of the SP. Everyone looked at each other asking: a veteran's law, what's that about, how do you work together, that's not the intention. These are big steps home soon. In 2011, the Chamber jointly depoliticized. You could have. Multi-annual agreements are substantive agreements. I say to Mrs Hachchi that I am not right about a budget. That is also clear in this article. I think it would be a great thing if we could discuss this with each other. In all the discussions with the Minister and the Government, we have made agreements in recent years on this cooperation with other countries, in whatever form. The Netherlands can never use the military alone, it must always do so together. This means you have to be a reliable partner. The United States has repeatedly informed us, including in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, that we need to be reliable partners. That is very important. When we talk, depoliticize and discuss security at national and international level, we are well advanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u153	A new interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u154	A new interruption then, because I think this is a very important point. I believe that Mrs Eijsink and I can agree on the issue of cooperation and that it has an impact on the budget of the armed forces at national level. However, this goes hand in hand with the choices made by the Defence Department for cooperation. Where do we work with which countries and where do we become dependent on each other? That's what you make agreements about. However, Mrs Eijsink is somewhat away from the point that other parties make of these multi-year defence agreements, namely the difference between high and low politics. Defence is a branch of sport that must be independent of the delusion of the day of politics, even in terms of budgets. The defence budget must be fixed for the coming years. This cabinet chooses to maintain the versatile military force. This also says something about the areas in which you are concerned with further cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u155	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u156	Does the Labour Party, like a number of other parties in this House, believe that the proposal for a multi-year defence agreement means that the defence budget will be fixed for the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u157	I think you've asked this question a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u158	I haven't gotten a clear answer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u159	I'm not running away from anything. As with the Veterans Act in 2006, I want us to talk to each other so that we can create a common identity. That's what I'm saying here. I'm not talking about high or low politics; I'm not talking about budgets. If we're gonna do that, we don't have to talk to each other. The point is, we're gonna have a conversation. Mrs Hachchi may wish to provoke me to make all kinds of statements, but that is not my intention. That's not the bet. Like the Veterans Act, we want to talk first. The commitment is that we do not spend many years debating facts and that we are not going to apologize to an organization, however well-meant it may be, as I say to Mr Knops. I will only hold this up for a moment: the manifesto on the strengthening of Dutch defence. Former Chamber members and ministers of almost all the parties present here, including Mrs Hachchi's party, have signed this. It has been said before: lessons learned. From that movement comes the momentum to start the conversation. I'm not talking about securing or increasing budgets. The Chamber and Rutte II have made a number of arrangements and they stand. These are the starting points, and we can discuss them further. It is out of respect for all parties to want to participate and to speak about it in some kind of research group or whatever Mrs Hachchi wants. All ideas are welcome. Then we can start there. The people in the country are not waiting for squabbling MPs. They want solutions to the problems that exist, and I think we can take care of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u160	Very briefly, Mrs. Hachchi. I'm getting really annoying right now, because this is gonna get all out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u161	I do not agree with you, Mr President, because this is a very important point of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u162	Of course, but there's really a lot of repeating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u163	Not quite. I hear new elements in Mrs Eijsink's reply. I'll get on with it. Mrs Eijsink talks about holding talks with each other, but that is exactly what this budget treatment is for. Parliament can then discuss with the Minister the choices it makes and the direction it takes in terms of security and the situation in the world. That space is incredibly important. I understand what Mrs Eijsink means by the proposal for a multiannual plan. In short, if we choose to record the defence budget, it is not the parliament that has a vote, but the department that decides what happens. I think it is important that we have fundamental discussions with each other about the military force, the ambition and the choices that go with it. I understand Mrs Eijsink's answer. She would like an investigation into such a multi-annual plan. On that basis, Parliament can see what it wants. So it's an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u164	I would like to add to Mrs Hachchi's comment. I would suggest to my colleagues that we discuss this together. That's how they started in Denmark and that's how they started in Norway. It doesn't have to be behind this microphone. We can talk to each other about all the wishes and possibilities that exist. Then I come to Mrs Hachchi's comment on the armed forces. No, of course it is not up to the armed forces, and of course we simply have the annual budgets and of course we talk about this in the Chamber every year. That goes without saying. We are all going to describe the vulnerability of the world today, but it is my willingness to look with all the parties that are there to see if we can take a step together instead of attacking each other every year. I think a lot of colleagues are willing to work in addition. That would be very nice, I say to Mrs Hachchi.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u165	And to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u166	A party that advocates stability, reliability and multi-annual agreements on Defence can be expected to set an example for itself, but in recent years we have seen the following happen. The PvdA stated that a billion dollars had to be cut back on Defense. That didn't happen. The PvdA said there would be no JSF. It did. The PvdA said there would be no new submarines. It's gonna happen. Is this proposal of the PvdA intended to control its own mop policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u167	These are now such predictable lyrics. In 2006 we were able to come together to the Veterans Act, which was realized in 2011. Mr Van Dijk may say anything to me, but 'lessons learned' also play a role. I am indeed in favour of the decisions we have made in recent years, but that does not mean that we cannot talk about them, even if a mirror is held up by society and by other groups before us. I don't know why such a proposal couldn't join the SP either, so I'd like to invite the SP to think and cooperate. Mr Van Dijk can find all sorts of things and I am entirely open to a better idea. Today, however, we are speaking as parties about the changing world, the insecurity, where there may be a need to join together in the debate. It is also our responsibility to be reliable with our citizens, and we must dare to engage in dialogue among ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u168	It sounds very sympathetic to the defense and I also understand that the right-wing parties are cheering. To be honest, I also find it remarkable that the PvdA comes with this. The PvdA calls for budget law, our most important instrument, to be out of our hands and set out for several years what Defence must do. This is of course very nice for the Defense Department and I am also in favour of reliable politicians, but should not Mrs Eijsink fall into this trap? We are not going to record all kinds of things for several years, including controversial purchases such as the JSF and the submarines, all things that you, or at least your party in the election, think very differently? Do you recognize that, Mrs. Eijsink?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u169	That's very easy language. This may be the biggest disappointment for me today. I have been working with Mr Van Dijk for years, but apparently he does not know me enough to know that as a representative of the people I will never, ever give up my budget. I'm just saying, let me get this straight. Mr Van Dijk seems to want to make a number out of this, but I will never, ever give up the budgetary right of the parliament. We talk about the defence budget every year, even if there are multiannual plans. We also talk to all stakeholders every year. Mr Van Dijk may not have read the report completely, but it is not only about the armed forces but also about all the stakeholders involved. Let's put things in the right context. Let me say it again for the sake of clarity, because I want to distance myself completely from this mantra: as a representative of the people, I will never, ever be deprived of the right to budget. Look also at the Danes and the Swedes, who do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u170	Let me see who was first on the interrupting microphone, Mr Grashoff or Mr Knops. Mr. Knops, are you up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u171	I haven't been paying attention myself, Mr. Chairman. This is one of the few tasks reserved exclusively for you as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u172	I'll see you there at the microphone together, so I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u173	I would like to support Mrs Eijsink in her response to Mr Van Dijk, because I have argued in my own contribution that there is no such thing as SP security or left-wing or right-wing security. Safety is safety. I just wanted to say that. I am sorry that Mr Van Dijk does not pick that up. Maybe that'll be in the second term. I have another question for Mrs Eijsink. She is deliberately staying away from statements about money at the moment, and I understand that. However, does Mrs Eijsink recognise that money is ultimately an integral part of these agreements? What are we willing to spend on our collective security?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u174	If you form a coalition, it's also about money. So let's not pretend we're setting up a whole different world now, and let's not pretend we're not talking about a defence budget every year. Of course it's also about finance. I am talking about a multiannual plan. The Swedes and the Danes have all worked that out over the years. Here in the Chamber we regularly look at the Scandinavian model. So that's why I'm suggesting this. And of course it's also about money. We're talking about money today, aren't we? We have also just discussed the 2% standard on NATO. In short, of course it's also about finance, but it's also about talking to each other in front instead of using big words on the front, but then not being able to express what was meant to be, whether it's elections or the coalition, many parties here were disappointed or disappointed other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u175	I can only agree with that, but my interruption was mainly intended to say very clearly that it is not just about talking. I do not need to talk without purpose, but I do need to talk with a particular purpose, precisely to avoid what Mrs Eijsink has just described. So she has our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u176	I am appalled by the word depoliticising and especially when it comes to the defence budget and what we do with weapons. I think that this is an excellent subject that we need to discuss here in politics, but rather I have the feeling that Mrs Eijsink is choosing a somewhat unfortunate term and that she does not really intend to depoliticise in this area, which I am pleased with. If Mrs Eijsink is calling for more international cooperation and multi-annual agreements, does she agree with me that the first thing you should do in the Netherlands is to abandon the doctrine of the multi-purpose armed forces? These two things do not relate to each other. That doctrine is the doctrine that has dominated defence policy for many years, regardless of the composition of cabinets. In doing so, we will decide whether we use aircraft, frigates and submarines, and if so, which ones. If Mrs Eijsink agrees with me that we need to get rid of that, then there will be a basis to talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u177	I do not quite understand what Mr Grashoff means. What am I supposed to get rid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u178	I said very clearly: the doctrine of the multi-armed force. That is the theme that comes up every time in the defence budget. We want to keep doing everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u179	Now I understand better. Mr Grashoff probably read the whole plan. In fact, that plan is about the way in which the organisation of Defence is built. It is not about the fact that we decide to participate in missions, because of course that is not up to us. First of all, the question is: how do you see security and the armed forces, how do you see the construction, continuity and stability? And that's what I'm saying again: depoliticize at the front. Participation in missions is another debate. Mr Grashoff made a comment on the multi-purpose force. We have a versatile military force, see the report on the reconnaissances, but please note that we also discussed this government's plan on the niche capacity of the Netherlands in September 2013. In short, we complement other countries, we work together. Multi-usable, you are only in cooperation with many other countries and with many collaborations, whether in the EU or NATO context. We talked about that. So I wouldn't know why multi-advocacy or multi-advocacy, if you like, wouldn't be a good term when it comes to Patriots, other weapons systems or our military availability, knowledge and skills. We're not getting off that either. Those are the decisions. Of course, we should not have the feeling every year or every two or three years that we can rebuild the armed forces. It just can't be. In 2012, we removed 10,000 positions from the armed forces. That was on an occupation of 60,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u180	These latter matters merely provide an additional argument for moving away from the idea of the multi-purpose military force, and therefore from an international perspective, and I ask Mrs Eijsink: does she mean simply in a European perspective? to look at task specialization, and then look at the efficiency of the use of your resources, and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u181	Oh, that's what Mr. Grashoff means! Shall I then immediately list a list of plans that my party has been proposing since 1999? I mention, among other things, the Plan for the Armed Forces on European cooperation and "In service of the Netherlands in the service of the world" of 2007 on European defence cooperation. Yeah, full-bodied! But that is what we are doing in many areas. We have already discussed this extensively as a Chamber. I assume that Mr Grashoff knows all the examples from the letter of 7 November. We've been doing that every year. We work, where we can, together. I refer to European defence cooperation and task specialization or partnership, because job specialization is, in some people's opinion, a bit tricky. Yeah, we are. Do we really think that the Netherlands can still operate independently as a military force? We can only operate in partnerships. And we already do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u182	I propose that Mrs Eijsink continue with her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u183	With regard to a multi-annual impact, I would like to have a kind of research group, together with colleagues, a discussion on this issue. I ask the government to look at how multi-annual plans can be implemented within that multi-annual perspective. A proactive involvement of parliamentarians is important, an early contribution is important and security about and continuity of the defence budget is of course also important. This also benefits management and performance of the tasks of the armed forces. I have a few comments to make on the AOW-hole. If I understand correctly, the solution chosen provides for material compensation of the gross AOW amount. The solution does not compensate for the tax effects. I would like the Minister to respond to this, because there are many people within the armed forces who have gone with functional age discharge and who suffer a great deal from this. I understand that the Minister says she can't get it out of the defence budget's own payroll. We still have a first partial agreement signed by trade unions. It is therefore a first partial agreement which has the agreement of the trade unions. However, none of us can deny that there are several problems that people are facing very badly. It is important to change that once again. I also discussed the issue of women in the armed forces with the Minister during the legislative consultation. You've got to be able to do it. You've got to be able to do it. Last Monday, the women asked me to return to the Minister that transit within the organisation is of great importance. We have two flag officers now. One of them will soon leave the armed forces for functional age discharge. That means we'll hardly have a high-level woman. Those women are here, I've seen them on Monday, and I see them regularly in all kinds of mission appearances and in conversations we have and visits we make. I would ask the Minister to promote this and to inform the Chamber about it. I conclude with the three d's: action, courage and perseverance. I thank the Minister for her unbridled commitment with an "t', I couldn't find a "d' for that in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr Van Dijk is already ready for the next interruption. If I may briefly, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u185	Always, Chairman, short is my middle name. I have another question about the AOW-hole, which we talked about last week. A lot of people are very angry about that. A settlement has now been reached, but it is not sufficient. That's why those people were there. Can I make a proposal with Mrs Eijsink on how we really close that AOW-hole? That would also be fair, given all the statements made earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u186	It is remarkable that Mr Van Dijk is asking me this now, because I have not seen or heard any paper proposals in his contribution. I have not seen Mr Van Dijk's proposal on paper, so I do not know what to respond to. I asked the Minister to look again at the tax effects and to respond to them. I'd like to hear that from her in her first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u187	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u188	I have clearly made a point of the AOW-hole in my contribution. I would like to make a motion on this. I think it is fantastic if Mrs Eijsink wants to watch, but let us not fall into all kinds of technology now. The problem is very clear. These people say: let the allowance for former soldiers go through to the actual AOW age. Mrs Eijsink, do you share the view that we really need to close that hole and not half as we do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u189	I want a response from the Minister first. It is the unions that are in the driver's seat when it comes to working conditions. This has been achieved in consultation with the unions and with their agreement. I would like to ask the Minister about the compensation for the tax effects. If unions agree, I'll read all the information. Trade unions have also said: submit an objection. I follow it all, I say to Mr Van Dijk. I would like to be kept informed of the state of play of the Minister's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u190	The Minister still has to answer and there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u191	There's the news that the JSF project, our failure hunter, is gonna get him another half a billion more expensive. I haven't heard Mrs Eijsink on that. Does she agree that such a cost overrun should not lead to cuts elsewhere in the defence sector and should therefore lead to the purchase of fewer devices?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr Grashoff did not hear me on this because we have already discussed this in detail in committee on 29 September. I would like to speak very carefully about the weapons systems for the benefit of our military and for the purposes of the missions we approve. This has to do with the dollar rate. At that time, the Minister explained the state of play. Maybe I can give Mr Grashoff that is what we discussed in detail on 29 September too. When we discussed this in November 2013, the whole discussion was about whether within the 4.5 billion reserved, perhaps more aircraft could be bought. In other words, it is now about the dollar rate. I understand the point made by Mr Grashoff. That was done jointly in committee at that time, but we will have to look at the dollar rate at the time of purchase. The purchase is made in two or three instalments. Of course, what Mr Grashoff says is on my mind, and of course I do not neglect that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u193	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u194	It is almost like the beginning of an answer, but for the sake of clarity: I understand from this that Mrs Eijsink agrees with me that this budget should not be exceeded and that, if there is no other alternative, this will lead to the purchase of fewer devices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u195	Those appointments are just on paper. They were re-examined on September 29th. What Mr Grashoff is saying now is a little too simple. I'd like to fill him in on that. He may also be able to recreate the Acts, but that may be a little faint. It's in there. It's been agreed within 4.5 billion. They're fixed. We'll stick to that. That was also agreed with the Ministers for Defence and Economic Affairs, Mr Kamp. The issue was explained in detail in the consultations on this subject on 29 September. I hope that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr. Chairman. How cheerful you look.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u197	Yeah, I always look like that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u198	Mr Grashoff made an interesting point. For the record, I have a stenogram here. If the PvdA had known that the JSF was going to cost 500 million more, would you have agreed to this project?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u199	I recognize this from the debate on 29 September. I just said what I said. Mr Van Dijk is now taking something out of the context of a two or three-hour debate. I'm not going along with that. I told Mr Grashoff what I said. It's been a funny try, but I don't like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u200	It's not funny at all. Mrs Eijsink said on 29 September: "No, we would not have agreed to the JSF." Let me tell you something, Mr President: the JSF is going to be 500 million more expensive. So the project's off. Then we still have news today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u201	I'd like to contradict that. It's funny to get something out of the context of a whole story. I said what I said. But before what Mr Van Dijk says becomes news: it has to be within the budget and within the agreements that have been made on the dollar rate and the numbers. I assume that the Minister will reaffirm this, if necessary, in the first term, also in response to the debate on 29 September.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr. Chairman. The threat of terrorism and the population relocation crisis are an increasing threat to our security and prosperity, a danger in which our armed forces can and must play an important role. The scarce financial resources that will become available to the defence sector must therefore be used to counter this particular danger. The men and women of the armed forces act decisively and quickly when asked of them. But the Minister lacks that strength and speed on important dossiers. The wage agreement reached in September kept us waiting for an eternity. On the one hand, wages are added, but on the other hand, pensions are reduced. Young people receive up to 15% less pension, I read. Is that how we're supposed to deal with Defense personnel? I don't think so. Then there's the slowness of this cabinet on the subject of defense. There are two files that move with a snail's streak. I'm just gonna light it out. One of these is the dossier of the toxic chrome paint used in the past in the Defense Department, which causes health problems for personnel. At least that's the conjecture. I already urged the Minister last week to speed up the investigation. I hope she will follow that up. The mostly sick former employees just deserve clarity. The Minister must also speed up the private security file against pirates in the merchant navy. I have been advocating this for five or six years. I have the impression that the VVD has heard about this in the last year, but the PvdA clearly doesn't. In 2015 alone, the government's position on private security on merchant ships has been postponed five times, five times in one year. That subject lingers in the web of indecision that is woven between VVD and PvdA. Then be honest, I'll tell the Minister. Then just tell us that thanks to the PvdA we must continue to use expensive and scarce frigates and marines to protect our trading fleet, which can of course be much cheaper. Then don't send the Chamber five reprieve notes in a year, but just send us one letter saying that the PvdA doesn't want to go with the time. Next year, 100 million euros will be added for investments in the Defense Department. However, what this money is going to be spent on is completely unclear, even after the Minister's letter the day before yesterday. I'm afraid the truth about this isn't so good. The cabinet wants to invest more in new equipment, but will soon use the extra money to cover up made blunders. Projects that are going to be more expensive will have to be rescued with a financial emergency link; this has already been discussed. I call the Joint Strike Fighter and the NH90 helicopters. At the same time, the military gets less in return, now and in the future. The two devices mentioned are not expected to perform. On the other hand, proven high-quality drones, which are essential for obtaining military intelligence, are not for the time being purchased. The choice to invest more money in the necessary maintenance of equipment in the Defense Department can, of course, count on the support of my group. The equipment that Defense has must be able to sail, drive and fly properly. Defense equipment is currently being stopped not by the enemy, but by inadequate maintenance. That's a bad thing. When is this situation gonna end? What priority is that? That remains unclear. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. The cabinet wants to pump 60 million euros into the budget for military missions. My group is totally opposed to this. The budget is being plundered by and squandered on aid missions such as those in Mali, Libya and Afghanistan. I would also like to give an example of the placement of Patriotic missiles from the Netherlands in Turkey. That is an incomprehensible matter. The dream of guiding those countries from the Middle Ages to the 21st century is bursting every time. Look at what has happened in Afghanistan, where corruption, tribalism and Islam has vaporized all the investments that have been made. Also, the knife should be in the number of missions. The Netherlands is now participating in twenty small missions. Those missions are taking on our armed forces relatively heavily. When does the cabinet stop using military forces on, for example, Seychelles' bounty islands? The PVV thinks it's crazy to pay 60 million euros for such missions. I ask the Minister not to do that and stop doing that. One of the priorities of the 2016 budget is the deepening of international cooperation, I read. It seems that a European army is becoming more and more reality. That will be at the expense of our sovereignty. What really justifies this urge for a European army? EU-critical parties are winning all over Europe. Moreover, the huge problems, such as the euro and the migrant crisis, divide the European countries to a large extent. Then why is this cabinet moving faster towards more EU defence cooperation and towards an EU army? Why is the Minister taking that dead end? As a nail to the coffin of our sovereign military force, this cabinet, I read, wants to make EU defence cooperation even less non-binding. So we're going to be bound. That must be done, as I read, during the forthcoming EU presidency of the Netherlands. The PVV wants this madness to stop. The Netherlands should only travel to Brussels to demand its sovereignty back; nothing more and nothing less. I take some hope of being vain hope of what I read today on the website of the NOS. It was recorded from the mouth of the leader of the VVD. He says there: the more Europe does, the less it seems to function; Europe delivers nothing, and that is a bad thing. I suggest to the VVD Group that we just go through that line. Let us also involve this in defence cooperation. So be cautious and careful. Do not allow our sovereignty in the defence field to be undermined by political groups such as the Labour Party. For years there has been a country in the alliance that has nothing to do with all kinds of Western values. It is a country that has opened its borders wide and satisfied watching thousands of jihadists join Islamic State. Moreover, a country that is now sending millions of Islamic immigrants to the West in reverse. I am, of course, talking about Erdogan's Turkey, where freedom is being suppressed. The PVV has been asking for this country to leave NATO for years and is now expecting support from the cabinet. Or would the cabinet prefer to be blackmailed and deceived by that pseudo-unionist Erdogan? I see that Mr Teeven has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u203	I'm in charge of the interruptions. I think you're about to finish. I just wanted to make sure you were almost done, because then I'll give you the opportunity to finish your story. Mr Teven will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u204	I have a brief concluding remark to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u205	Then I suggest you make it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u206	Then I'm gonna do it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u207	I'd like to interrupt on this subject, but if I have to wait, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u208	That's all right, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u209	I'm rounding up. The PVV puts the Dutch interest first: additional investments in the armed forces must benefit the national interest, especially as it becomes more unsafe around us. Our armed forces must arm themselves against it and fight for it. Defence must not play a role as an aid organisation for third world countries. Defence must act as a military force to protect the Netherlands. So use our military for that task, is my final message. Use Dutch soldiers to fully guard our borders and use Dutch soldiers to protect our citizens from terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u210	Thank you. I'm looking at Mr. Bitch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u211	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to say something. I hear Mr De Roon talking about the situation in the Mediterranean and about Turkey doing badly. The VVD Group also has an image of this. At the same time, I hear him say something contradictory about missions at the external borders. I hear he's very critical about this. Is it not a good idea to use the armed forces at European level to combat illegal migration and to combat the problems surrounding Turkey with illegal migration? Will the PVV Group seriously consider cooperating on this issue, whether or not at European level? I think it should be within the European context, because otherwise it will not work. I agree with Mr Knops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u212	Cooperation with other countries for the protection of national interests is a good thing in itself. Mr Teeven only comes months, or maybe years, too late with that idea. It has not been achieved by Europe. It is not being realised by the European Union. One large area has been created with open borders. At these open borders, certain partners of the European Union would ensure that those who enter and are not allowed to enter return. The opposite is true: all lucky seekers from North Africa and the Middle East who have entered the European Union via Greece and Italy flow effortlessly to all parts of Europe and thus to the Netherlands. The problem at the time is no longer at the external borders of Europe, but at the border of the Netherlands. Mr Teeven's commitment should be, as it is the commitment of the PVV, that this tidal wave does not completely flood our country. Now we can do that, but if Mr Teeven is still hesitant, it is really too late and we are suffering from it forever. This problem can no longer be reversed by a few boats from the Dutch Navy on the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u213	I do not hear any solutions from Mr De Roon. That's always the problem with the PVV. I'm trying to think with him a little bit. I'm trying to get the good things out of his speech. What does Mr De Roon propose in concrete terms in border control? Are we going to put border guards next to each other on the Dutch-German border? How are we gonna do that? What does the PVV actually propose when it says: close borders? What are we gonna do? Now try to descend to the reality of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u214	That question is only now being asked by Mr Teeven, and I am happy to go into it. The border posts just need to be manned again. In between this must be fully continuous patrolled by Dutch soldiers. I agree with him that we can't put a soldier around the meter. That is not necessary at all, because as soon as it becomes clear to those lucky seekers that they are being intensively patrolled along the Dutch borders, they no longer come to the Netherlands, then they go to a country where that does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u215	Finally, I think it would be wise for the PVV to participate in this multiannual structural funding for the armed forces, which is being increased. For the things proposed by Mr De Roon cost money. I am therefore counting on the support of the PVV on this point. So that is what Mr De Roon is going to say yes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u216	What I have advocated here will certainly cost money. But let me tell you one thing: it is going to cost us less than what is happening now, for which your party is jointly responsible, namely that all these asylum seekers are entering our country, soon followed by their family members. That's gonna cost a lot more than what I'm advocating. The Minister of Finance has already said that this year's influx of asylum seekers costs one billion. If we don't close the borders now, it's gonna cost us a lot more. Make sure that those borders close, because that is ultimately cheaper than that influx of people who should not be here continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u217	The glowing speeches by Mr Van Roon of the PVV for defending the interests of our nation state are taken from my heart. He is also now making a glowing argument to guard the borders, ignoring other tasks. But are the unproclaimed patriotism and the history of the Netherlands sufficiently done justice? Is Mr Van Roon aware that, when it comes to anti-piracy missions, the Netherlands has a very old tradition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u218	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u219	Mr. Van Roon realizes that in the Golden Age we took on the Barbarian pirates...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u220	Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u221	... and that in the Golden Age we managed the keys to the Sont, which were in Amsterdam? In other words, does Mr Van Roon not focus too much on just the Dutch interest sec, whereas the Dutch interest can be served by operating and intervening outside the Dutch borders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u222	Well, that was a very long interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u223	But these are crucial questions, especially for the reflection within the PVV!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u224	That's what they all say!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u225	If Mr Bishop is given the opportunity to have a very long interruption, I am sure that I will now have the opportunity to have a very long answer, Mr President. The PVV is in favour of combating piracy. The PVV is in favour of our Dutch interests being protected throughout the world by our armed forces. But we must do so in an effective and efficient way. We should not spend a dime more than is strictly necessary. The PVV does not therefore consider that our ships should no longer be protected from piracy. Of course we think so, and we have supported that for years, even when it had to be done by our Navy. But at some point you come to the conclusion that the situation is stable and that the protection of Dutch merchant ships off the coast of Somalia can very well be done by mandating our military sovereignty, under strict conditions, to private security organizations that are very well equipped for that purpose and that day out on most ships sailing there prove that they can do very well. Let us do the same, I say to Mr Bishop, and I ask him to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u226	Mr Bishop, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u227	First of all, if we took care of it that way, you'd lose an amount. Secondly, similar threats occur on other fronts, including for the Netherlands. The flow of migrants that is emerging in the Netherlands and in Europe has to do with this. Doesn't it make sense for the Netherlands to act at the source of the problems? That source must be addressed as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u228	At the moment, it is essential that the Netherlands acts where the threat is manifesting: at our borders. We have to act there first. Only when we have that under control will I wish to speak again with Mr Bishop about how we can improve situations elsewhere in the world, whether or not with the help of our military.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u229	Mr. Chairman. Without defence no security, without security no peace and without peace no freedom. However, defence is not an end in itself. Defense is an instrument. An instrument for security, for peace and for freedom. An instrument that is only effective in combination with two other instruments: development cooperation and diplomacy. A lasting solution to any conflict that we see in the world today is often "maybe" I should leave out the word "often" only through the combination of these three instruments. This also means that the Netherlands needs to focus more on conflict prevention. This applies, of course, not only to the Netherlands, but to the entire international community. This means nuclear disarmament and arms control, preventing the depletion of natural resources, combating radicalisation and terrorism and strengthening the rule of law. Good intelligence and cyber capabilities are essential for this. Additional investments in cyber are therefore necessary for the future. Does the Minister agree with me? Safety at the edges of Europe, where the Netherlands is active, has a direct impact on safety here in the Netherlands. The missions that the Netherlands contributes to are a breeding ground for radicalisation and can lead to attacks on its own territory. This cabinet has a strategy for national security and also a strategy for international security. However, as I have just explained, national and international security are two sides of the same coin. I miss that coherence in the two strategies. Can the Minister promise to look into this, along with her colleagues in the cabinet? Let me zoom in on the defense budget a little bit more. After years of austerity, the trend has been reversed, thanks to the fact that the SGP, the Christian Union and D66 have been forgotten. We see that the coalition parties have chosen to pursue this trend and that extra money has been provided for the defence sector. That is good, but D66 consistently points out that this money needs to be spent smartly. I'm noticing a few things. It has taken a while, but after last week's debate, the Minister has finally sent a letter on the way in which she fills in the use of the extra money. In the case of austerity, the cheese bowl goes over it a little bit and with extra money there is a little bit more everywhere. We also see in the budget that the money flies out on all sides. 130 million for the longer flight with the Cougars. Half a billion more for the JSF. $90 million for the JSF engine maintenance. Six years delay in real estate savings of over 60 million. 20 million a year for the partly empty Kromhoutkazerne in Utrecht. 18 million for tanks. 16 million for patching up the Patriots. 33.5 million a year for the longer retention of the Gulfstream. In fact, money has been brought forward to pay for missions. There is also a huge problem with the acquisition chain of Defense. Problems I would like to say again to my fellow Members, especially those who do not follow all the Defence debates, which cannot be solved with money alone. The General Court has also indicated this on several occasions. It is also apparent from a recent report that is before us. There is still cookery in the Defense Department, I take that from the report, I am not making it up myself, I do not have the capacity to set priorities and not enough a culture of a learning organisation. There will be no improvement on this point. Last year's budget debate focused on the headaches issues, which I will not mention all of them. My group does not want to accept this standstill. A robust military force involves a robust business operation. I see that a colleague wants to interrupt; a good moment, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u230	Actually, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u231	I thought it was a good time, too. That's why I'm standing here. My question is as follows, because it is one of two. Or D66 says: we think the turnaround and the turning point are important and have contributed to this in the autumn agreement; we want to invest permanently in Defence. Or D66 says it all has to be a bit more efficient and it can be done with less money or with the same amount of money. What choice does the D66 Group make? Are we constantly investing in Defense to continue the upward spiral, or is the hand on the cut?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u232	I thought this was a good time for an interruption, but I notice that Mr Segers has to wait for the rest of my input. I'll deal with the choices that D66 will make later. I repeat what I said at the beginning of my speech: I support the trend break. D66 supports the trend break in money for the Defense Department. The crucial point is not only the money, but what do we spend it on? In this respect, I do not always agree with the choices made and that is why D66 is very critical of spending. I have just said that the company's operations in the Defense Department are far from robust. A tough force is nice, but the operation should be tougher if possible. That was the criticism I just made. I will certainly address the question of how D66 sees the implementation of the choices for itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u233	I would like to see the D66 Group pouring ready-made wine. If the turning point and the turning point need to be continued, then D66 commits itself in general to a continuous investment in Defense? Can Mrs. Hachchi confirm that? Then you get the talk about a good and efficient spending of money and whether it could be better. If Mrs Hachchi so much mentions the need and the pain of her own participation in that turning point, then I would ask if we can count on D66 if we want to take the road where investment in defence can no longer depend on the political whims that are taking place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u234	That's the upside-down world. You have to talk first about spending: what choices do we want to make and what do we see for ourselves? Then you're gonna talk about the budget. I do not quite understand that the Christian Union is wiping this logic off the table and wants to talk about money first. I wouldn't even know how much money to discuss after what it is spent on. It has to be the other way around, which seems logical to me. That is my answer to Mr Segers' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u235	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u236	Let's talk about the robust military force and the robust management that goes with it. I would like to ask the Minister to state very clearly how she is going to achieve this. I pointed this out on Monday at the legislative consultation and said that a deadline or target date for the summer would be good. The Minister was too quick to do so, but I would like to be clear about how she is going to achieve this robust business. A future-proof military force must dare to look ahead, dare to renew and dare to choose. That does not mean standing still and not buying weapons from the past, delaying important decisions and always reversing austerity measures, but looking ahead in the twenty-first century. We can only do that if we make a fist with our partners. Let me finish, otherwise I will have to repeat things again and that will be at the expense of my speaking time. We can only do that if we make a fist with our partners. A versatile military force at national level exists only on paper. We must move towards a versatile military force at multilateral and ultimately at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u237	I'd just like to get back to that robust business. We talked about the De Veer report in the Human Resources and Defence legislative consultation, and it's coming to the Chamber. I am therefore a little surprised that Mrs Hachchi is doing this again. After all, the Minister has already made a commitment on this. I think it's a repetition of moves, but we all have that freedom. We have just talked about the front, call it multi-annual plans, everyone can use their own words for that. As a result of the political whimsy, that is the wording of Mr Segers, there have been many changes in recent years. Does Mrs Hachchi agree with me that this has also been done at the expense of the operation of the armed forces? Think of the cuts that have been made, the steps that were taken in 2013, for which I thank D66, and the continuation by the coalition, in which the PvdA is also involved. Does Mrs Hachchi see that point? It is not unimportant to recognize and acknowledge what it all began with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u238	First of all, I would like to say that we often talk about the operation of the defence industry. Last year we talked about the headache files. Unfortunately, I'd like to say. I would also prefer not to repeat myself, but I have to. I think that a budget should cover the whole spectrum. I try not to get bogged down in detail, but to really repeat a number of points on the main lines. The problems of business management cannot be solved only with money, as I said in my contribution. Mrs Eijsink must be sure of that, because she knows all the reports from the beginning to the end. There are problems that can't be solved by money alone. The Court of Auditors has also said this literally. That is my point with regard to this robust business. We want to see results from this minister, who is praised by colleagues because she is also going through it. That's what I'm asking from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u239	Well, that makes sense. I did not say the word'money', but it is now becoming clear what Mrs Hachchi is talking about. My comment was not about money. A possible conversation over several years of looking ahead is not directly about money. My question to Mrs Hachchi is: does she agree with me that the rapid changes in recent years have had an effect on the people who have to do the work? If we say in 2012 that 10,000 functions will disappear, whoever decided to do so, I do not need to approach each other in this way. We agree on that. If the Chamber is going to add up, then that is all well meant and good for the organisation, but it is difficult. Like Mrs. Hachchi, I like to check it. That's our job. Understanding and co-thinking about this is something other than being critical. Build-up is something else. However, I am not just saying that to Mrs Hachchi.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u240	I think we agree that the problems in the defence sector are also related to the cuts. In fact, in every debate we have with Minister Hennis, she also indicates that. That won't contradict anyone either. However, it is not the only reason. It is too easy to deal with all the business problems with the observation that they are coming through the cuts. There are too many reports before that and too many times we have spoken to the General Court of Auditors. Again, there are problems. I have spoken in this context about breeding, about action and about setting priorities. I said there's no culture to be a learning organization. My point is, you don't solve those cases with money. I hope this is clear enough. I had maintained my point that this versatile military force should not be pursued at national level. It is an illusion at all to think that you can do that, especially given the fact that you have to invest in the future and that you have to fight for it. That's priceless. So one must strive for a versatile military force at multilateral level and in the future even at European level. This can only be done by choosing and investing in a targeted way. D66 chooses Europe, the Air Force and the Navy. Let me explain this to you. D66 wants us to work together with our partners to create a versatile military force. Countries should not only specialise in what they are good at. For example, the Netherlands is good at the tasks of the army. We are good at everything and we are proud of our armed forces. It is important that countries specialise in the tasks in which they distinguish themselves so that they can complement each other. That's job specialization. The Netherlands can make that distinction with its Air Force and its Navy. In the field of cyber, there is an excellent opportunity for the army. I didn't repeat my plea that extra money should go to cyber for nothing. In this area, there is an opportunity for our army at national level. That means you have to invest in cyber, but also in drones and the Marine Corps. I referred to this last example during the legislative consultation. With your partners you then enter into multi-annual agreements so that you can shape that cooperation in the long term and so that you are sure of each other's commitment. The Netherlands already works well with Germany and Belgium. Cooperation with France can also be deepened. I would like to make that point again in this budget debate. We got to know the French better in Mali. They share the same strategic importance when it comes to the belt of instability. There is also a desire for further cooperation in France. Look at the steps they've taken with the British. Concrete examples are pooling and sharing of drones and the NH90 and exploitation of operational cooperation in multinational projects. These are the concrete opportunities for us to shape cooperation with France. I'm gonna wrap it up, also because of time. Defence is an important tool for peace and security in the world, but it does not manage alone. Diplomacy and development cooperation are equally important. However, it is necessary for the operation of the defence industry to be brought to an end, and it is necessary for us to work together with our partners in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u241	Mrs. Hachchi makes bold choices in her input. I cannot respond to that now, because I am not speaking now, so I can only ask questions. In relation to the choices made in the field of international cooperation, which I understand in itself, I would ask Mrs Hachchi to acknowledge that international cooperation increases interdependence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u242	Yeah, sure. I have indicated this in several debates. It is incredibly important that we see, recognise and choose for it. Then you will indeed come to the point of making choices, such as task specialization.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u243	If we know that interdependence is being increased, is Mrs Hachchi prepared to go into a process that allows you to be reliable towards the international partners by preventing the defence budgets from fluctuating over the years? I have heard Mrs Hachchi express some reservations about Mrs Eijsink's proposal on the multiannual defence agreements. Is it not necessary for a party such as D66, which is so keen on international cooperation, to ensure this through continuous, guaranteed budgets so that the agreements made at international level can be effectively implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u244	I said this in an interruption during Mrs Eijsink's speech. I'd like to repeat that with all my love. I see the usefulness of the multi-year defence agreements, those long-term agreements, even when it comes to budget. I see the point of this, but only in conjunction with the dependence of our partners. When we make choices at national level in which we shape this dependency, we also really need to make choices about task specialisation. Then I understand that you have to make long-term agreements on the budget. That's what D66 says. But I hear parties like the CDA, which actually see it as: "We take the defense budget out of it and record it for five years. We will see the details, but we want it to be certain that at least money will remain and preferably will be added." I don't look at it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u245	I would like to say that Mrs Hachchi expresses all kinds of things that I simply did not say at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u246	Mr. Knops, I'd like you to set the record straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u247	I wanted to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u248	It's okay. We were supposed to have lunch at 1:30. I shall now give the floor to Mr Segers. He has eight minutes' speaking time. I hope that we can really finish this part of the debate around half past two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u249	Madam President. In order to underline the importance of defence and the defence budget, my group has delegated its group chairman, without guaranteeing that he will remain a spokesperson. But my group will be talking about this internally. I am delighted to be speaking here about the Defence budget for 2016. We called it the Arab Spring and we had hope, hope that the sigh for freedom would finally answer words; a cry for freedom. The comparison with the fall of the Wall was made. But the call for freedom was answered by the opposite: freedom, violence, revolutions degenerate. The yoke of a dictator was exchanged for the yoke of ISIS. I have not even mentioned the role of Russia in Syria, the annexation of Crimea, the questionable role of Turkey. This is the context in which the Dutch military, at present 1,140 men and women worldwide, fulfil the mandate of Article 97 of the Constitution: to maintain and promote the international legal order. As this assignment got more and more acute, the Defence budget fell by 1.5 billion. That's a historic mistake. In the meantime, we can speak of a change of direction, but still a slight change, because the 2016 budget also shows a discrepancy between the level of ambition and the available budget, as has also been noted by the General Court of Auditors, which has often been mentioned. In this context, I have a question about the much discussed NATO term, about which Mr Knops has already asked questions. This Minister and this government, too, committed themselves at the NATO summit in Wales to that 2%. In the long term, we must work towards that 2%. For my group, this is unclear, because there are only eight years left and because there has been an enormous ambition. Can the Minister reflect on the promise made there and then? In any case, this is enough reason to call again for investment. In doing so, the Christian Union Group is putting the word into practice by means of an amendment to 100 million. How wonderful it would be if that amendment could count on the warm sympathy of the Minister. I look forward to her responding to that point. However, this discrepancy not only causes budgetary problems, but also creates a huge temporary pressure on staff. As the Minister knows, my group awaits with great interest the investigation of the home front, the so-called home front check. This concerns the implementation of a motion that I tabled together with Mr Eijsink last year. My group is very concerned about developments in Turkey. We can see that freedom of the press and freedom of religion are under pressure. There are great questions about the treatment of minorities, such as Kurds. Turkey is also active in relations with Kurds across borders. Under Article 5 of the Charter, the Netherlands is obliged to provide military assistance to any NATO ally. However, it is not inconceivable that Turkey itself, with its current political orientation, should provoke such an emergency and thus potentially drag NATO alliance members into it. Does the Minister share these concerns? What does this mean for our relationship with Turkey within the NATO alliance? When is the time to rearrange that relationship? Asking these questions is not yet directly answering those questions, but these are very compelling questions. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The Christian Union Group recently had a party meeting in which a number of experts sat at the table to talk about defence. An expert from the United Kingdom indicated that in the United Kingdom about $20,000 per military is spent on safety, training, equipment and training. The Netherlands would spend about half of that amount per military. I cannot verify this on the basis of the information available; I cannot get my finger on it, but I would ask the Minister if she could provide more information on this point. How much do we spend on the security of our military compared to what allies do, for example the United Kingdom? At least for the Christian Union Group it is important to get this insightful and to make that comparison. I'd like to get a reaction on that point. I would like to join Mr Teeven's questions on the mandate of international missions to combat trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. We have spoken to people who have been active in Mali and who have seen human trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Of course, this has major consequences, potentially also for Europe, and we now know all about this. At the same time, there is not enough mandate within MINUSMA to signal this and send the signals. Shouldn't the mandate be extended? In view of the refugee crisis, it seems to me that this is also in the interest of the Netherlands. The second concern with regard to the mission in Mali concerns cooperation with other participating countries. The intelligence collected by Dutch military would not be sufficiently processed by partner countries due to a lack of expertise and capacity. On that point, too, I would like a response from the Minister. The Chamber has debated with this minister several times the threat of jihadism among our military. Mr Knops has drawn attention to this on several occasions. The main reason was of course the unimaginable message that a Dutch soldier has turned to ISIS. That message shocked us all. The Minister has rightly announced additional measures, mainly concerning recruitment and selection, the screening process and an anti-radicalisation programme. Perhaps by now the Minister will be able to indicate what measures have been taken. In that broad palette, my group also considers it important to look at the military oath that is being taken, as described in Article 126a of the General Military Staff Regulations. The current text is very sober. It could, for example, focus more specifically on values, freedoms, standards of the Dutch rule of law and their importance and defence. That oath would have a heavier weight and more content. Is the Minister prepared to have a small, short reconnaissance conducted on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u250	How far along are you in your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u251	I've got two short blocks left. The Chamber is still waiting for a letter on the armament of merchant ships. Questions have already been asked on this subject, and I agree with that. In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the STUDY. A motion of my hand has been passed that has provided additional budget, an injection of 17 million. However, the Minister writes in her letter that this is without prejudice to the fact that in other areas there is still a difference between the demand for information and the possibilities. Is the Minister prepared to have an external investigation carried out in the form of a committee or otherwise on which areas STUDY can still not carry out its tasks sufficiently? Could this indeed lead to more insight into what STUDY needs to do for the safety of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u252	I hear Mr Segers asking good, intrinsic and intensive questions about taking the oath. Does he agree with the PVV that the taking of an oath against Allah by military forces is contrary to and even contrary to everything that our western modern democratic rule of law stands for, such as equality between men and women, freedom of expression and so on? He knows that list, too. Does he agree with me that this oath to Allah should be removed from the oath for the swearing-in by soldiers, and also by policemen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u253	That's exactly the port of my question. If we clarify what promise is made that a military will commit to the values of the Dutch rule of law, this oath will be given a greater importance and will weigh more heavily. I ask the Minister to look into this, because it is about what you promise, namely the defence of the Dutch rule of law, fundamental freedoms and everyone's equality before the law. We must never use wine when these values are at stake. In addition, we have always had the freedom to choose the oath or the promise on the basis of personal conviction. This variation also applies to MPs. That space for difference is also part of the Dutch rule of law and I would not want to change that much. However, no water should be added to the wine when it comes to the content of what you promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u254	Then Mr Segers revolves around the hot knit. That hot knit is that taking an oath on Allah is by definition contrary to all the fundamental values he and I stand for. As far as I'm concerned, that oath to Allah should be immediately removed. Where is the Christian Union at this point? Does Mr Segers believe that the oath on Allah should be removed, regardless of what the Minister will say about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u255	I've been very clear. It is precisely because of the importance of everyone's equality for the law, equality between men and women, fundamental freedoms, freedom of religion that the Christian Union is very dear to, and the importance of the rule of law, that I have asked whether we should give greater weight to this. Should we not say more about this? There has always been the possibility of variation between believers, non-believers and other believers in the way that is underlined. I want to maintain that freedom. In fact, it is part of the Dutch rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u256	The Christian Union puts defence at the centre of its work, because it is even sending its group chairman to this debate. I know from Mr Segers that he is a champion of a great military force and more investment. He even wants to record that these investments will continue and then look at spending later. I think that's a strange order. My question is whether Mr Segers is prepared, like Mr Zijlstra, to reflect on what our armed forces have done. Does Mr Segers agree with Mr Zijlstra that, given the consequences, we have actually given too little thought to the wars against Iraq and Libya?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u257	Mr Van Dijk had a déjà vu when I asked him a question, but I have now reversed that in this division of roles. He asked me this question last year. It was specifically Iraq back then. Then I answered what I'm about to answer. It's unpacked disastrously. I lived in the Middle East myself, in Egypt. I saw the political stagnation, the lack of perspective and hope for many Arabs. I had the sincere hope that a revolution in Iraq would cause something positive. However, it has been disastrously unpacked. With the wisdom of today, we can say that at that time a decision was made which we should not have taken. By 'we' I mean the Netherlands, which was clearly much more reluctant to do so. The Netherlands was at a much greater distance from that war than, for example, the United States and the United Kingdom. In a recent reflection, former Prime Minister Blair said: we should not have done this; we have released something that we did not know existed and which we would now wish we had never untied. Of course, we are always prepared to reflect. I'm gonna add one more sentence, and then I'm gonna turn the tables again. However, this should never paralyze us when making decisions now, when it comes to life and death, people who are in need. I called it Sinjar Mountains; we had Kobani and Mosul, where Christians were driven out. Sometimes doing nothing is worse than doing something. And if you want to do something, you have to have a military force that also stands up internationally for the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u258	I would like to congratulate the new chairman of the Christian Union group, because this honesty is a credit to him. I mean that sincerely. I agree with him that this should not paralyze us and that the armed forces should be able to operate if we agree. Do the insight that Mr Segers was just as honest about, and the lessons that have been learned, not allow him to look even more carefully at the defence budget rather than call for the budget to be raised anyway? The success of the missions in recent years was very relative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u259	I heard Mr. Teeven refer to the end of World War I. Before the First World War, in 1907, the States General had a plan to cut hugely into the armed forces. I just happened to read that the other week. The First Chamber stopped that at the time. I'm glad, knowing the forces that broke loose after 1907. You sometimes face the compelling choice of holding your hand up or down when deciding on international missions. Those are very far-reaching decisions. After all, you put people in the line of fire. Sometimes these far-reaching decisions are about life and death elsewhere. We did not intervene in Rwanda. We did intervene in Kosovo. Those are very moving decisions. The condition for being able to make that decision, for being able to let go up or down of your hand, is that you have a military force. This military force must not depend on political arbitrariness and on political whims, which means that one billion will go down and another hundred million will be added. In the light of the need of the armed forces, that is still a work of scramble. We must protect ourselves from ourselves by making long-term commitments. I am not referring to a blank cheque, but we need to know that freedom has a price. We must know that we sometimes face far-reaching decisions about people's lives and deaths elsewhere. I do want a military force that can be deployed to save lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u260	Mr De Roon, I see you again. I'd like a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u261	It can be very brief, Mr. Chairman. I heard Mr Segers put intrinsically good and intensive questions to the Minister about Turkey as a NATO ally. Thank you for that. In my view, however, the question arises as to where Mr Segers of the Christian Union himself stands. Does he think Turkey should be out? Or is he going to go around it again, like my question about the swearing-in of military forces on Allah?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u262	I'd like a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u263	Mr De Roon may get used to the fact that sometimes a question is really a question, so that if a question is asked, which is really meant as a question. I said that asking the question is not yet a direct answer to that question. This is a very serious question. We now use bases in Turkey to carry out attacks on ISIS. We are in favour of attacks on ISIS, because it embodies an enormous evil. So there's already a field of tension there. At the same time, we are seeing political developments in Turkey that are more than worrying, and we are seeing Turkey's reaction to Kurds and Turkey's attitude towards Kurds who are very angry. It is true that we have made a promise that we will assist each other in times of crisis, so when a country is attacked. Asking that question is a big deal. I am not ready for an answer yet, but I am getting more and more worried about the relationship we have with Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u264	We really need to finish, Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u265	I'm glad those questions have been asked. I am glad that the Christian Union is thinking about this. I regret, however, that you are again weighing up small interests, such as the fact that attacks are now being carried out from Turkey against Syria. At least the Netherlands is not doing so at the moment. I think that the Christian Union would do well not to weigh up all sorts of small interests against each other again, and simply make the basic choice against Islam and against Erdogan's Turkey that is becoming an increasingly Islamic dictatorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u266	That wasn't a question, that was really a statement on behalf of the PVV. I regret that, because if I make a comment on that, you will say again that I am interrupting you. Interruptions are really meant to ask questions, but you know that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u267	My question, of course, is: will Mr Segers respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u268	Yeah, I know that. I know that Mr Segers can reply to this very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u269	Islam and Turkey are not equal. Mr De Roon mentioned them in one breath, but they are not synonyms. Turkey is currently a partner and the partnership is pinching.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-11-tweedekamer-3.u270	Thank you. I'm suspending the meeting until about 2:00 p.m. We shall then begin with the commemoration of Mr Aantjes, former CDA group chairman. Then there will be the arrangement of work, and then we will go back to the defence budget.
