ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u1	We have four participants on the side of the Chamber, only three of whom speak. The first speaker is Mrs Straus of the VVD, who, like the others, has two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We discussed this matter in writing with the Minister. We were somewhat disappointed in the answers and think it is too important to leave it at that. For that reason, I shall table the following two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the recognition of and mutual understanding of (MBO) professional qualifications is in many cases the problem faced by Dutch job seekers in Germany and in particular in the care, construction, industry, engineering, logistics and catering sectors;]] [[whereas there are many vacancies available in the German border region which could be filled by Dutch job seekers;]] [[Considering that in his letter to the Chamber, the Minister for Housing and National Service stated that the mutual recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications was one of the points of action drawn up in the context of "shrink" and that this should be resolved within two years;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the border provinces, to establish, in bilateral consultation with the neighbouring German Länder, the recognition of Dutch (MBO) professional qualifications, in particular for the above-mentioned sectors, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus, Mr Jadnansing, Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22452-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u3	My second motion concerns the Europass Certificate Supplement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas potential jobs for MBO graduates in the border region are often also cross-border;]] [[Whereas a Dutch MBO diploma does not simply give access to vacancies in the profession in question in another country;]] [[Whereas, in order to facilitate the recognition and appreciation of professional qualifications in another country, educational institutions have since 2005 been able to provide a Europass certificate supplement free of charge in the case of the diploma;]] [[noting that there is still too little use to be made of it;]] [[calls on the Government to actively draw attention to the possibility of providing the Europass certificate supplement free of charge in the case of diplomas at least in the border regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Straus, Mr Jadnansing and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22452-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has many border regions. Recently, my fellow group member, Mr Kerstens, argued in favour of removing obstacles to cross-border work. This would require cooperation with German and Belgian authorities and with German and Belgian industry. Secretary of State Klijnsma pointed out that steps were taken by the government to speak with Belgium and Luxembourg, and that she was also doing so with the various German Länder. Can the Minister for Education explain to what extent she is also involved in these talks? Indeed, there are regional and sectoral internship shortages, as the Minister acknowledged in response to my own initiative paper. If MBOs do not get the internship component of their training in order and therefore threaten to end their training, then it cannot be that they simply have to put it on hold. I think it might help if those young people could get an internship across the border. Is that a possibility? The SBB indicated that it had applied a temporary extension of the recognition possibilities for learning companies following signals of shortages of BPP places. Can this also apply to border regions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u5	I see the Minister can answer immediately, but two motions still need to reach her. We're gonna wait for that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. In the motion of Mrs Straus c.s. in piece No. 45 is asked, in consultation with the border provinces, to obtain recognition of Dutch professional qualifications in bilateral consultation with the neighbouring German Länder. I think that's a nice motion. I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide, but with a reservation. It is very important for Dutch workers to be able to work quickly and easily in neighbouring countries. This raises an important problem for the motion. There have long been talks between the Netherlands and the Bundesländer about the mutual recognition and appreciation of diplomas in MBO. Sometimes, however, it turns out that it is difficult for the Germans to make the process of graduation happen properly and quickly. This has much to do with the constitutional relations in Germany: the relations between the Bundesländer and the relationship between the Bundesländer and the federal level. So there's not much I can do about that. I would like to see how we can speed up bilateral dialogue. I want to be tough on that, too. After all, it can really help the people in the border region to get a job. The SBB has been working on this since 2009. In the last month, March 2015, there was a conference on this cooperation in Ulft. I hope that the Chamber realizes that I cannot break iron with my hands, that I am dependent on the Germans, on their constitutional system, and that I am happy to work for it. I imagine I'll update the Chamber for the summer, but we'll talk about it after the summer. Another remark is that many sectors are mentioned in the motion. The childcare and care sectors in particular are very likely for MBOs. There is therefore a relative difference between the sectors mentioned in the motion. With these reservations, I shall leave this motion to the Chamber. In the second motion by Mrs Straus, on item No. 46 is requested to actively draw attention to the possibility of issuing the Europass certificate free of charge in border regions. I also leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. I agree with Mrs Straus that the Europass is a good instrument and that it can play an important role in promoting cross-border work and learning. With the free certificate supplement, employers and employees on both sides of the border clearly know what knowledge and skills someone has. My impression is that many rocks use the supplement well, but it can always be better. I can imagine that it would be useful to remind the regions of the border regions of the available instruments. If this motion is adopted, I would be happy to draw your attention to it once more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u7	One short, pointy question from Mrs Straus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u8	One short, pointy question about the Europass Supplement. Not all profiles have been translated into German or are available in German. If the Minister is going to look at which diplomas are the most important to be recognised across borders, can she at least ensure that Europass supplements are available in German for these professions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u9	Yes, for those professions where there are opportunities to work across borders. Otherwise it will be a bureaucratic burden on training. It must therefore be linked to the Europass and to professional opportunities. Finally, I come to Mrs Jadnansing's question on removing obstacles to labour mobility. Obviously, I work well with my colleagues from Social Affairs, one of whom is present here, to improve labour mobility. I agree with that when it comes to learning and studying. When it comes to studying and working, of course, we are very close to the MBO. I therefore agree with Mrs Jadnansing that internships across borders can be a solution if there are not enough internships in the Netherlands for precisely those sectors that Mrs Straus is talking about. Then we can use EURES, a portal in which European employers can offer vacancies and internships. I can also see that quite a lot of Dutch students are internshiping across the border. But I also see that there are sometimes obstacles to the recognition of learning companies. The quality of apprenticeships must be good. The quality of the guidance and of the students should also be good. The recognition of apprenticeship firms at home and abroad will be brought under one roof at the SBB on 1 August of this year. That's a consequence of the operation around knowledge centers. There will therefore also be a single scheme for companies at home and abroad, with a single single point of contact in which all companies, including foreign companies, can apply for recognition online. So that could really help. I therefore hope that this will also contribute to further internships across the border. However, there are sometimes practical objections. I was in Groningen the other day. There I noticed that the connection of public transport is a problem. Unfortunately, we do not have as much transport between, for example, Groningen and Germany as within the provinces. This can therefore bring with it a lot of extra travel time. I can't solve those problems one, two, three, but what's under my control, I'd love to take on to further improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-02-tweedekamer-9.u10	On Tuesday we will vote on both motions.
