ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I'm glad the Secretary of Defense is also here. I would also like to welcome her. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Teeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had an excellent general consultation with both leaders on the evaluation of the missions. That's an annual meeting. It emerged from this that it might be desirable to assess not only the deployment of military personnel but also civilian and diplomatic personnel in so far as this is the case in the case of a mission. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that military deployment is evaluated annually by the Ministry of Defence;]] [[Whereas an overall picture of the deployment also requires an evaluation of non-military personnel;]] [[calls on the Government to review the deployment of civilian and diplomatic personnel in parallel with the evaluation of military deployment;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Bitch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. According to the cabinet, military missions can be cut by clustering them and looking more closely at the added value for the Netherlands. These words, however, turn out to be fried air, because concrete steps to cut missions are not taken. The EU Somalia Training Mission is an exemplary example of how left-wing creator ideals fade into the harsh African reality. That mission doesn't train 1,000 soldiers a year. Many of them disappear from the radar and their loyalty is questioned. The sustainability of the result remains worrying, as the cabinet itself recognises. The outflow of already trained military personnel is a concern. Where they're staying is unknown. Do we actually educate people for Al-Shabaab or for local warlords? The Minister simply cannot deny that possibility. The minister himself indicated in 2014 that the trained military are mostly loyal to their own clan and hardly to the central government. It is also not known where the trained military personnel who may not be discharged will end up, because Somalia has still not set up a personnel registration system. The Somali security sector has not been visibly improved in many other respects either. Dutch soldiers have been staying at Mogadishu airport for years because it is just too dangerous out there. After years of attempts to build the rule of law in that country, the most simple legislation does not yet criminalise piracy, thanks to the lax, incompetent and corrupt Somali administration. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU Somalia Training Mission, namely the building of an effective security sector in Somalia, does not lead to significant and sustainable results after years of efforts;]] [[calls on the Government to terminate the Dutch participation in EUTM Somalia as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. All over the world, Dutch men and women are committed to peace and security: soldiers, diplomats and development workers. D66 appreciates their commitment. Last week in the debate, my group, like a number of other groups in this House, once again asked the cabinet to look at the amount of small missions. A total of 20 missions are carried out in 14 areas. As Minister Koenders does not want to do anything about this fragmentation, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a fragmentation in the policy of participation in missions;]] [[Considering that almost a year ago, the government undertook to take seriously the issue of small missions when drawing up the Van der Staaij motion, i.e. to include a framework for consideration on which the Court could base its choices on missions;]] [[having also noted that the Government has recently confirmed in writing that consideration is being given to possible improvements to the current practice of small contributions to missions and the costs associated with them, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof as soon as the reflection process is completed;]] [[calls on the Government, while maintaining these commitments, to develop a balancing framework for participation in small missions including the cost aspect, identify possible improvements, and inform the Court of Auditors of them by spring 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hachchi and Mr Knops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29521-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	We wait for the last motion to be copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	Madam President. As Mr Teeven said, we did indeed have a good general discussion two weeks ago. In it we talked about the almost 3,000 Dutch soldiers who have been deployed with various complex missions and various tasks in the world. We have discussed several of them, such as training and training Palestinian security officers, anti-piracy and air operations over Iraq. There are all kinds of different missions. Three motions for resolutions have been tabled on this matter. I'd like to say something about that. I'll start with the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr Teeven, also in general consultation, has called for attention to be paid to the evaluation of civilian deployment in missions. The review framework provides for an annual mid-term review of the ongoing operations in which Dutch military units participate, but the practice has grown so that smaller military contributions that are not strictly covered are also dealt with in the mid-term review. I understand from the motion that Mr Teeven is now asking for the transmission of diplomats and civil experts in military missions to be included in that evaluation. A good example of this is MINUSMA, in which diplomats play the role of civil advisor at ASIFU in Bamako and in Gao and to which civil experts contribute, for example in the field of SSR. They were sent out in the same context as the military. I can therefore go along well with the idea that it is important, from the integrated approach, to include, of course, the broadcasting of civil experts seriously in this mid-term review. In that sense, I can understand the motion and therefore support it on behalf of the government. The motion in part No. 303 concerns one of the smaller missions in which the Netherlands operates, the military training mission in Somalia. This is a small but important mission that we are taking part in in the light of an integrated approach. I cannot go along with Mr De Roon's evaluation of this mission. The mission is absolutely not based on feasibility ideals in an African context. It is a training of military personnel that makes it possible that others do not always have to be there, but that the Somalis themselves can take responsibility for their safety. The mission shall be coherent with the missions Atalanta and EUCAP Nestor. So I will not go along with Mr De Roon's evaluation. We await the review that comes in December together with the evaluation of Atalanta and EUCAP Nestor. In that sense, the motion also seems premature. Mr De Roon might consider submitting the motion later, but that is obviously up to him. However, if he continues the motion now, the government will have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	Does the Minister recognise that the results of this mission, in particular the deployment of Dutch military personnel, are not visible, tangible, effective and sustainable? That is the thrust of the motion. I suggest to the Minister that the UN has even issued a report on the fact that soldiers are leaving and joining Al-Shabaab. That UN report is not public. Is the Minister prepared to make every effort to ensure that this report becomes public so that we can take it into account in our deliberations on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'm sticking to my answer at first. There will be an evaluation on our part and we will include all the reports that make sense. That's how we work. I cannot make separate reports from the United Nations public. I worked at the United Nations. Where that is possible, everything is made public, but sometimes there are reasons not to. They may have something to do with the safety of the people we're talking about. We will include all these elements in the evaluation at the end of the year. I think we have a better picture. I think Mr De Roon is too negative and pessimistic. I agree with him that it is a very complex country. I would point out that Al-Shabaab, partly through the combination of various UN and European Union actions, has lost its strength in Somalia. In this sense, the situation has improved. I think it is important that we do not stay there forever. On the basis of evaluations, UN reports and other efforts that contribute to improving that mission, we must strive not to remain there. I maintain my view that this motion is not only premature, but also incorrect in a number of considerations. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Minister's theory may be sound, but it doesn't work. I do not ask the Minister to make public the UN report on the failure of the results and, in particular, the lack of the results of this mission. I ask him to make an effort to make it public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u10	The answer is that this is taken into account in the evaluation. It's being sent to the Chamber. It therefore receives the most important reflections on what has been discussed in this report. The subject of the motion in part No. 304 was mentioned earlier in the debate. Maybe it's good to say something about that. In general terms, I have said that small missions can be very important, as important as larger missions. There has been talk of the possibility of clustering this more and looking for more regional approaches. However, we do have a balancing framework, and that is the international security strategy. This has also been discussed very clearly in general consultation. In fact, the debate referred to the question that was raised earlier, namely whether we should have a separate balancing framework for this. The government has replied negatively to this, because it considers that the Netherlands has a different interest in providing a niche contribution. I mentioned a number of missions, such as the training of security people in the Palestinian territories or the mission that has just been mentioned. This contribution is not so easy to plan in advance in a different balancing framework than the framework we already have, namely the international security strategy. In the debate we have pointed out that the Netherlands must be able to be flexible in this. This can say something about the information position that we want to build up or about the local knowledge that we want to acquire. Sometimes there is a small niche contribution that can just influence a mission that is only at the beginning. Think of the planning in Tunis, for example. This can create a specific role for the Netherlands, which cannot be planned in advance, but we do use the balancing framework of the international security strategy. In that sense, therefore, I do not think it would be wise to use a separate balancing framework for small missions. Of course, the cost and management aspects are always taken into account. The Secretary of Defense has also spoken about it. Given the way we are dealing with this now and seeing how positive the evaluation of the small missions is, I do not think it is important in itself to have a new, separate balancing framework. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u11	As the Minister and colleagues have said, we have had a very good general discussion on this recently. During this AO we also discussed, on the initiative of Mr Teeven, a more comprehensive approach to the missions. A motion has just been tabled on this subject. I remember the Minister in the AO saying in a response to this that he did not like to develop a new evaluation tool for this purpose. The PvdA supports the line to consider and evaluate the integrated missions as comprehensively as possible. To what extent is the review toolbox now used for the military task of missions suitable or sufficient for the assessment of the civilian and diplomatic task?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you for this question. In fact, this refers to the questions put by Mr Teeven, Mrs Günal and others during the general discussion. The wisest thing to do is to do that. In fact, this is about the integrated approach. The civilian components are then evaluated in a single package, containing both military and civilian components. I think we are sufficiently equipped to do so in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u13	Without immediately getting into complete confusion with the Minister's answer: I understand that the Minister is also dropping the civilian diplomatic evaluations. The same applies to the activities of the diplomats involved in the mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yeah, they're still civilian activities, so they're part of it. Absolutely. Mr Teven is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u15	That was separate in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u16	Absolutely. No misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u17	That's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-18-tweedekamer-3.u18	This brings us to the end of this VAO. We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
