ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. They're still here: megalomaniac drivers. Drivers who are engaged in large-scale mergers and who seem more interested in management processes than in the elderly they have to house. There they are again: the headlines that testify to fusion drive, of heads that roll. Now it's the turn of Woonzorg Nederland and Habion. "Top Woonzorg wants to push through controversial merger." The works council and the tenants are not involved. And: "Kop topman Woonzorg rolls in controversial merger with Habion." You sometimes wonder what kind of world these drivers live in. In this house, we have unanimously adopted the revised Housing Act with the corresponding novelle. The message from that law is clear: there is the right of consent of tenants in mergers, category organisations are obliged to place their policies in local or regional performance agreements, corporations should focus on their core area and the law discourages large-scale corporations. As if nothing has happened in recent years, Guus Verduijn, the new top man of Woonzorg, proclaims that there is another one that has left that the planned merger with the other housekeeper, Habion, can be well defended. On 13 April last, he stated in Het Parool that the merger was necessary: "We are doing the same. We offer independent living space, social rental homes." So it is: one kind of toothpaste, one kind of car, one corporation that knows what's good for the elderly. We're doing the same thing, so let's merge, so says the top man. You almost wonder why there isn't just one rural housing corporation that offers all social housing in the Netherlands. Luckily, with this House Act, it won't come to that. Much worse is that we now know that large-scale mergers in corporation country do not lead to efficiency, that business burdens do not decrease and that customer satisfaction does not increase. The only thing that increases are the salaries of top executives and the number of managers. My group wants to send out a strong signal. We are against this merger. We thank the Minister for his letter on the plans so far and his promise that no irreversible steps will be taken for the time being. Following that letter and the proposed controversial plans of Woonzorg and Habion, we have a number of questions to the Minister. Firstly, the Minister writes that he is aware that both organisations are considering a merger. Our question is whether there have been contacts between the Ministry and the two organisations in the form of letters and conversations, and what the content of those talks has been. Secondly, we would like to know from the Minister whether these plans will be assessed under the new legislation, because we know that the two fusion partners are rushing to push through this merger before 1 July. Thirdly, the fusion partners are proposing to move towards a personal union. Isn't that a disguised merger? We'd like to hear from the Minister if there's a difference. How does the Minister view the personal union that Housing has with Espira? Wouldn't it be better to get away from them? Can the Minister address the financial situation of Housing Care? Isn't there such a moloch created here that we get another systemic risk with a corporation, like we saw at Vestia? We would like to hear from the Minister whether he knows whether views have been initiated by tenants and municipalities in which there are more than 100 homes from one of the two partners, and whether an opinion has already been requested. Fourthly, we would like to hear how the minister looks at the organisation of the elderly housing in a broader sense, not only in the light of the revised Housing Act, but also in the light of the transformation and the approach to housing for the elderly, which is currently being pursued by a special support team of the Minister of Housing and the State Secretary of VWS. Will this issue be taken up by the team and can we immediately receive a report on it? Wouldn't it be much better, for example, to have residential care defuse again? 50,000 homes scattered across 230 municipalities, is that a way of organising efficiently? I'd like to hear the Minister's response. I'm rounding up. I call on the Minister and all other parties, tenants and municipalities to do everything possible to prevent this merger. Precisely local democratic embedding, with control over tenants and municipalities, putting the human dimension and embedding in local communities are matters that the Labour Party expects from organisations that work for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The ink of the report of the parliamentary survey on housing corporations and all scandals is not yet dry, or a subsequent merger to create a large system corporation is once again emerging. Two corporations, namely Woonzorg Nederland and Habion, would like to merge. We know that Woonzorg Holland already has a very turbulent history and already had all kinds of big plans for a merger. At the time, the Chamber also put a stop to this. If such a merger were to continue, there would be a giga corporation with 55,000 homes. The corporation would be "too big to fail." One of the most important lessons of the parliamentary survey is that corporations should re-focus on their core tasks, namely ensuring affordable housing. They must build and maintain affordable houses. We have seen and learned that if the scale is too large, this only leads to huge salaries, more bureaucracy and less participation for tenants and staff. I don't think that's the idea. Can the Minister guarantee that both the tenants of Woonzorg Nederland and the tenants of Habion will be fully informed by these corporations? Can he agree that, in the spirit of the new law which will enter into force on 1 July, these tenants will be able to avail themselves of a right of consent anyway? It is not for nothing that we have regulated this right of assent in the law. What exactly is on the tables of the directors of Woonzorg Nederland and of Habion? In August, or at any other time, was there indeed an intention agreement signed between Woonzorg Nederland and Habion, something we heard from the newspaper? What exactly does this agreement entail? Has the minister, has the ministry been in contact with the corporations by now? How was that contact? What appointments have been made? I understand that the Authority has already approved a merger request on 2 February. How does the Minister point this? There is already a personal union with care institution Espria. Has the union been dissolved by now? Is it true that there is a new personal union in the making? Is this the up-to-date version of that entire merger? Is it true that, however scandalous, the works council has been completely excluded from this? Is it true that the tenants have already been kept out of this? What motives lie behind this merger, except for the nice plans of the directors? Perhaps one wants to merge because one corporation is not so good for money and the other is? What other arguments can there be for these corporations to immerse their tenants and staff in administrative chaos? Those words are used by the works council of Woonzorg Nederland itself in Het Parool. I don't see what the interest would be in municipalities. I don't see the importance of housing. There is currently a lack of clarity for all concerned. It is a good thing that the Minister, following the example of the House of Representatives, has said that no irreversible steps are being taken. Can the Minister guarantee that it will remain so? Does he agree with the SP Group that this merger should not take place? A moloch is created that manages 55,000 homes. This is done by passing through a works council that previously prevented a merger, and by ignoring tenants. We can't have a moloch like that with regard to the SP. That's old politics. I think we have said goodbye to this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr. Chairman. I am not a left-wing politician, but the words of Mr Karabulut and Mr Monasch are working. With the recent parliamentary survey on housing corporations, we have completed the deepest and widest research ever into this sector. Based on the four Gs, behavior, boundaries, governance and money, we came to important conclusions and concrete recommendations. It starts with behavior, followed by boundaries. In terms of behaviour, the sector is clearly challenged to return to its core values and not want to be a real estate tycoon. As far as borders are concerned, it is clearly stated that there is no unnecessary increase in scale, with the landlord getting more and more away from the tenant. What's my surprise? Some drivers are still on the line of "I go on with mergers; we don't care if we pass the participation." Apparently, changing behavior is a difficult, long-term process. The proposed merger between Woonzorg and Habion will have to be strongly argued. I am not charmed in advance if there is yet another moloch with about 57,000 rented units. In view of my limited speaking time, I have tabled a motion in second place to express my concern about this proposed merger. How does the Minister feel about such a merger, looking at the lessons of the survey?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u4	The opinion of the Committee of Inquiry also included the creation of an independent authority on housing corporations. It would be an excellent power to judge mergers. At the same time, we are taking an assessment of this merger. How does Mr Van Vliet see that, in the light of the Committee of Inquiry? I'd like a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u5	That is a very fair question. As a chamber, we are still in discussion with the minister about the independence of the home authority. There will be another VAO; we will see which motions will be adopted. So we have to park that independence for a while. Furthermore, the home authority is one thing, but the minister is ultimately the one who has to agree to a merger. I think you should be able to talk to the Minister about that. But I am actually more concerned with the matter behind it, namely that such a merger is going to lead to a system corporation that brings down risks, while the benefits of that merger remain somewhere in the fog. Looking at this very large and heavy survey, I therefore believe that the Minister should have an opinion on this. After all, he is and will remain a system operator. But thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. Housing corporations Housing care and Habion want to merge. That would create a dominant system corporation, a giga business, a moloch with 57,000 houses. That's not nothing. We have talked a lot about this in recent months. Of course, such a large player on the Amsterdam market raises a very clear demand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u7	Why is this merger necessary? What are the usefulness and necessity of this intention? Does that even outweigh the disadvantages? If we've learned one thing, we have to keep emphasising that here, it's that a larger scale isn't always better. For many corporations, cost savings are the reason to merge. It is well known that as far as I am concerned there are quite a few corporations allowed to cut their overhead, in their fat. But a merger is not always the best solution. Large corporations are not always more efficient than small corporations. The Planning Office for the Environment has calculated that the planned cost savings in mergers are rarely realised. So there is every reason to be critical of mergers. Moreover, large corporations are often far away from their tenants, while a short distance from the people for whom they all do it has proved to be so important. This was also reflected in the report of the Committee of Inquiry. This certainly applies to a residential care job, where there is actually a double task. In the new Housing Corporations Act, we have established a stronger link with the region for a reason. I still wonder very much what the consequences of this merger will be for the future tenants of Woonzorg and/or Habion. Are things going to change for them, for example in the rents, maintenance, bureaucracy and the number of houses? Do the tenants ultimately benefit from a merger and what does that prove? Mrs Karabulut, Mr Monasch and also Mr Van Vliet said that we have put in the law for a reason that we need a clear right of assent for this type of large merger. It shouldn't be a hobby of corporate directors. It's gotta be something. In the end, the Minister has the final say on this. Residents and staff must be properly involved in a merger. They need to be able to think about the future of their corporation. The corporation is not there for the corporate directors or the corporate boards. No, the corporation is there for the tenants. D66 has therefore tabled an amendment with the PvdA and the SP to ensure that not only works councils are properly involved, but also the tenant organisations themselves. There are many indications that these merger plans have been kept secret for a long time and that the works council knew nothing. Can the Minister tell us if this is true? What are the information rights of a works council in such cases? Was the tenant's platform even informed? There could be good reasons for a merger. We should not always rule out a merger in advance, but a merger is certainly not necessarily positive; on the contrary. In the end, the Minister decides whether the merger can take place. He has not yet received an official request for merger, but I assume he has thought about the criteria he will apply before he determines the colour of the light: green or red. What are the objectives of a merger as far as it is concerned? What minimum requirements apply? Does the Minister believe that the merger between these corporations is going to comply with this? I will also outline the position of D66, because it is always good to outline your own position in a debate. It is better to give it to yourself than to do so in response to Mrs Karabulut of the SP. As far as D66 is concerned, the light is on bright orange. That's a clear "no, unless" attitude. I do not exclude every merger in advance, but I think that this merger is suspiciously similar to the mergers that we have said in recent months that we should be more cautious in this and that we should also give the people involved greater consent and participation. Finally, a key question. From the sector, you keep hearing that the Chamber is constantly magnifying every incident and pretending that nothing has changed. Every time we talk about a major merger, a certain salary or a certain event in this kind of debate, I wonder whether anything has changed in that sector. If we have to have this kind of debate every week, the answer to that question is becoming more and more like: no, little has changed. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. A decision that is not yet before us is being debated by a minister who is only half-hearted about it and a chamber which thinks that it should not be about it at all. We in the Chamber have called for the appointment of an independent supervisory body for the corporations. The VVD finds it very difficult that we as a Chamber are now full on the organ and express an opinion on a merger of which we do not even know the details. I therefore want to stay away from a substantive assessment of a possible merger between Habion and Woonzorg Nederland. However, we know that the unbundling of Woonzorg Nederland from Espria will lead to scaling down and not to scaling up. We also know that Habion has ensured in all kinds of innovative ways that existing real estate is maintained for the least purchasing power target. I am confident that the supervisor will properly weigh the pluses and minuses of a possible merger. By the way, the VVD fully supports the principles of this law: organising living space close to the people who it concerns. In the ordinary corporations, we put a brake on mergers through a mandatory focus on one residential area; hence the reinforced assessment criteria. The categoral corporations, which are at issue in this case, have a little more space. However, it is not yet 1 July and the new legislation is not yet in force. This means that mergers are assessed on the basis of the legislation currently in force. Does the Minister foresee problems or challenges during that period? Is there going to be a boom in mergers before 1 July, for example? If a merger proposal is submitted on 30 June, will it be assessed on the basis of old or new legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u9	Last week, following an incident at ING, we saw that there is a tendency for companies or organisations to anticipate new legislation by doing certain things quickly under the old legislation. Mr Van der Linde has kept a whole story. It would be so incredibly strange that the Chamber would like to debate this because it is not going to do so at all. I think that the conclusion of his speech made it clear that we could say something about it. What does the VVD now think of this merger? What does the VVD think of the fact that, now that we have changed something in the law, it seems as if a number of organizations and corporations say: let's settle our merger quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u10	I don't have any indication that this plays in this way with Habion or Woonzorg Nederland, so it would be pushed through just as quickly. Why would I have to think that in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u11	I have also asked the Minister that a number of issues have been covered in this merger, that organisations which have had a lot of participation from 1 July are not properly involved. There are indeed signs. It is good to be a little careful whether what Mr van der Linde himself described at the end of his speech, namely that there might be a boom in mergers, is perhaps not happening here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u12	The tricky thing is that I can only rely on what I see and hear in the media and on what I may know from personal contacts with corporations. I'm not going to pass that one-on-one like truths here. That is precisely what the Minister is about and on which we can question him. That's our controlling task. The Minister will have to weigh that up in the merger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u13	I think there is indeed a planned merger, since Housing and Habion have put the story on the table with the Authority Consumer & Market, who then said: no permit is needed; go ahead, tralala. Now we're talking about the Minister. If it goes on, I think there's a proposed merger... you'll get a corporation with 57,000 units rented out. This is very likely to be accompanied by an extensive holding structure. After all, you have to be able to control such a moloch. This is going to show characteristics of a very large system corporation, which we also saw in the survey. Mr Van der Linde was just talking about the tenants who it's about and that you should stay close to it. If you have another moloch with a holding structure that operates nationwide and has a central headquarters somewhere, with a well-paid board and so on, how do you stay close to your tenants in Tietjerksteradeel, Kerkrade and Terneuzen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u14	I can also go down the constitutional road and explain to Mr Van Vliet that we have a legislative and a supervisory task and that neither of them is going on. We have just fulfilled our legislative task, and we must wait for a decision to be taken to carry out our monitoring task. We have made an exception in the law for category organisations. Think of elderly housing, but also student housing. These organizations are allowed to operate nationally. They are not limited to one residential area. Coincidentally, I visited Habion once. For example, if you come to Voorst, you will see an organisation that is perfectly embedded locally. So I am not concerned about that, if that is your specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u15	I'll come back to my question just now. If a proposed merger has at least been submitted to the Authority Consumer & Market, it is in any case under way, that is a fact. Could Mr Van der Linde say something about the way in which the VVD looks at the creation of a system corporation with 57 000 rented units in the light of the experiences and lessons of the parliamentary survey?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u16	I maintain that I think it is primarily a task of the Minister to have an opinion on this. That's where the ILT is now. Then we will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u17	I look forward and I see old politics. The behavior I feel is one of "let's not get involved too much" while all signals are on red. The works council is not known. Tenants don't know anything. There's gonna be a megasystem corporation that's gonna be too big to fail. Even more important are the lessons of the survey. I'd like to hear an opinion from the VVD, given the facts that are known. What color is that traffic light?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u18	Old politics? My nose! Let me tell you something. The VVD, probably like no other party, together with the PvdA has been dragging hugely fast into new legislation. It will enter into force on 1 July. We are now dealing with existing legislation. Old politics? I invite Mrs Karabulut to talk about new concepts in social rental, about temporary contracts and that kind of construction. Then we can really change things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u19	This is even more disappointing. I think Mr Van der Linde knows very well what I mean. It is about everything described in the survey on housing corporations. Politics looked away. Each time this kind of debate was held. Luckily, a large part of the Chamber looked away, the situation has changed, except for the VVD and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u20	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u21	... said, let the drivers do their thing. I have the following question to ask Mr Van der Linde. These drivers want to do what they do. They have already filed a concrete request for merger with the Authority Consumer & Market. They've ignored tenants and the works council. There's a whole history of failing drivers. And then the VVD dares not give judgment here, or at least an opinion to the Minister? Whose side is Mr Van der Linde actually on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u22	For the VVD, dealing with all kinds of mergers and all kinds of newspaper reports is something other than political companies. We don't go into this and that. As soon as a decision has been taken on the merger, we can call the Minister to account. We've laid down legislation. I think we've done it nicely. However, there is currently no fusion plan, at least not the ILT, which deals with this. Then how can we find any of that now? How can we say that a traffic light is on green, on bright orange or on red if we don't even know what's in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u23	I have the next question. Mr Van der Linde is a co-legislator. What does he think when he reads in the newspaper about controversial plans and about top men who are already fired because of the argument about mergers? How does he look in the light of the debate that we have had here and in the light of the parliamentary committee of inquiry that such reports on the public case go down the street? Corporates have to deal with their core tasks, but the opposite is the case. Top men are arguing with each other over the heads of tenants and works councils, and perhaps that also results in redundancy payments. How does Mr Van der Linde, as co-legislator, look at these kinds of messages?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u24	What I read in the paper was about a works council that's angry. That's the full right of that works council. I also understood, but from the second hand, that the tenants are involved in this process. Maybe the Minister should tell you better than I do. I don't know. As co-legislator, I say, I can't have a judgment until I have all the information. All we know is that a merger is planned. What are the details of this? I don't have a clue. I can't do anything with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u25	One of the ways in which corporate directors have often put a little bit of sand in people's eyes in mergers is by saying: then it's all going to be more efficient. How does Mr Van der Linde view this argument, in the light of all the studies and the benchmark he has asked for, which shows that this efficiency leads to greater customer discontent, rather to higher than lower business costs and higher salaries and more managers? It turns out that precisely corporations which are organised on a somewhat orderly scale perform much better in terms of efficiency than large-scale corporations created by mergers. That should concern the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u26	Now we're gonna agree. Nor are we in favour of megafusions in general. However, in our system mergers are assessed one by one by the supervisor. In this case, that might turn out to be a good thing. Or it's not working out. For the assessment of that, we have that particular supervisor. We cannot judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u27	Were you at the end of your term, Mr. Van der Linde? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to Mr Fritsma of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. The PVV is not in favour of very large housing corporations, because the core tasks must be built, managed and rented out of social housing. We are therefore very negative against a merger of the organisations Woonzorg Nederland and Habion. How does the Minister view this merger? Is he willing to stop this merger? Looking at the change in the system of housing corporations, which has also been warmly supported by the PVV Group, an agreement by the Minister does not seem obvious either. After all, the sector is going to look very different, with corporations having to focus on the core tasks, all kinds of side activities falling, fortunately tenants getting much more influence and so on. These changes simply do not fit large, cumbersome, bureaucratic organisations anymore. The Minister has to see that, don't he? This is also not in line with the findings and recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Furthermore, these housing corporations say that they want to merge in order to meet the challenges of senior housing. It is true that there is pressure on the senior housing, but that is, of course, the fault of the cabinet. The cabinet, carried by PvdA and VVD, closes care homes and leaves elderly people who need care to live at home. The PVV continues to call on the government to reverse cuts in care for the elderly and to keep care homes open. That would, of course, also help the corporations to ease the pressure on senior housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u29	We have arrived at the end of the first term of office. The Minister for Housing and National Service has indicated that they can respond immediately, so I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr. Chairman. Mr Monasch was the first, but actually all the speakers indicated that a lesson from the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations is that megalomaniac housing corporations are too quickly distanced from tenants and from local demand for housing and often I do not think you can say: always lose sight of the primary goal, namely housing of people with small wallets. That is also why the Chamber and I agreed on a new Housing Act, in which the conditions for merger are more stringent than hitherto. The new law stipulates that, in the case of mergers, consent is required from the municipalities where the corporations are active and from the tenant associations, unless either there is an urgent financial need or it can be demonstrated that there is no provision for the housing demand in the municipalities. That was indeed because we felt that the requirements for mergers should be tightened. The one who tests that is the supervisor. Now, before 1 July, applications for mergers are submitted to the ILT, which will request an opinion from the Central Fund. After 1 July, that will be the home authority. The Chamber and I also agree that a supervisor should be able to decide on individual decisions in the independence of the Minister. Within this framework, I will address the specific questions I have been asked. Mr Monasch and Mrs Karabulut asked me whether I would not like to take irreversible steps. The current situation is that the ILT, the inspection it is required to approve, has not yet received an application. It is also the ILT, and not so much myself, who will respond, having heard the Central Fund. The ILT must have received an application first, and it is not yet available. However, it is true that Habion and Woonzorg Nederland addressed to me in a letter I think that the Chamber that has also received has announced that they are exploring a merger. Mr Monasch asked for that. But that letter is not an application. That application just hasn't arrived yet. Mr Monasch and also Mr Van der Linde asked which law to review such an application. The date of the decision of the now ILT, soon to be the home authority, is the determining factor. If that decision falls after July 1st, the new law will apply. If the decision falls before July 1st, the old law will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u31	I have an interruption along the lines of the questions I have asked. It's good to hear that letter was sent to the minister. Unfortunately, the Chamber did not receive a copy of that, as far as I remember. That's not a reproach, it's just a statement. Have you had any contacts? Have there been official talks between Woonzorg Nederland, Habion and the department? Has there been any contact with the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State of VWS? Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u32	There's been official contact. In doing so, the parties have been informed that an application will only be assessed if a formal application is submitted. That application must be complete according to the old or the new law. As long as there is no complete application, nothing can be judged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u33	In these talks were also the policy vision of the cabinet and the vision of the majority of the Chamber laid down in the law made known to Housing and Habion? Do they know that the feeling of the entire parliament is such that it is not waiting for this type of large-scale mergers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u34	The feeling of the Chamber and of myself is, of course, enshrined in the law. That's how it works in a rule of law. You lay down the rules in a law. Those rules make it clear that we want far more safeguards for mergers than in the past and that the supervisor will review them. Mr Monasch's question was whether a quickie would be possible before 1 July. It's gonna be really tight. Again, no formal application has been made. But with the deadlines ahead, you'd really have to submit them very quickly and completely, if you're gonna get that date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u35	In response to that exploratory letter, did the Minister indeed express the wishes and ideas of the Chamber and the Minister with the new law to the directors concerned? The minister says it's gonna be really tight. Should I interpret that as practically impossible, or is there still the possibility that this would be assessed in accordance with the rules of the old law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'm gonna go into giving you a vision first. A minister is also subject to the law. In individual cases, the Minister does not enter into the supervisory independence. That was also a request from the Chamber. We have laid down the requirements for mergers in a law. The Chamber and I agreed that these demands should be made more stringent, and that is why we have established them. Each individual merger is therefore assessed not by me, but by the supervisor against those requirements. Is it still feasible by 1 July? That's very tight. Especially if there were negative views of municipalities, it would be very difficult. In any case, I have seen an interview with an alderman from Amsterdam who was very critical of this. But of course I'm not sending in the application, so I can't judge when it comes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u37	Let me turn now to the laws and regulations and the various functions and tasks of the supervisor and the minister. Of course, the Minister is responsible for the system. There's a special situation. There has been a survey which has produced a report. In addition, we have recently dealt with a new law. In addition, the Minister and the representatives of the people, of course, have the task of doing so on a daily basis; almost every second, I would like to say, to convey the spirit of the laws and the rules. If it hasn't already happened, could the Minister at least, given all the circumstances, advise that he doesn't think it would be wise for him, if they were really serious, to take such a merger through before 1 July?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u38	"The Minister is system responsible"; I fully agree with that. This means that legislation and supervision must be well organised. The Chamber and I have surpassed each other in saying to each other how important independent supervision is. I cannot agree at the same time with the Court on independent supervision and yet give an opinion on individual cases. Because with that, I inevitably drive an independent supervisor into the wheels.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u39	I wholeheartedly agree with the Minister on the role of the supervisor, which we have regulated in the new law. That should not be a surprise, because the Chamber unanimously adopted that bill and the Minister fully agreed with it. So that's clear. It's only two things that matter to me. My first question is: does the Minister think there is a desire to merge Housing and Habion? The minister says: I haven't received an official request yet and the supervisor hasn't seen a letter yet. But what does the Minister think? Do you think they're gonna merge or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u40	As far as wish is concerned, I am farther than thinking, because I have just received the letter. Whether they're going to merge is another question, because once again, that depends on the application that needs to be there and the test that takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u41	Clear. So the Minister agrees with the Chamber that they might have the wish to merge and they will try? Then the next question, which Mrs Karabulut also asked, is whether the Minister can indicate exactly how likely it is that they will do so before the law comes into force on 1 July. I'm a little suspicious right now, I'll be honest with you. Yes, I believe in good supervision and yes, I trust the Minister in the way he deals with the new law. But I don't really trust those two housing corporations after everything that's happened. Is it possible that they still think: we do this quickly and shortly before 1 July and then we have settled it nicely for the new law with the new supervisor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u42	That's not impossible, it's extremely difficult. At the moment, during this debate, when I see that the application is not yet available, I say: it is becoming more difficult every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u43	In the report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations, we have honestly stated that politics reads: the House of Representatives soon put its head in the sand for about twenty years. We also said: if you take on that lesson, you hold the finger on the wrist. That's what we're doing here. I am therefore in favour of the report of the Committee of Inquiry and ask the Minister: there is an independent resident authority, but if we hide behind it that they may or may not allow the merger, does this mean that it does not matter how large-scale these corporations are going to be in the near future? Then we'll be right back where we started, won't we? I honestly don't understand it anymore; I'm equally sincere. The Minister himself said in his law: I agree with the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry and, in that spirit, we are going to work with the law. Soon that moloch with 57,000 rented units will be there. Day tenants in Tycherksteradiel, Kerkrade and Terneuzen: we are at the expensive headquarters! How does this minister feel about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u44	This minister believes that housing corporations should comply with the law. The new law does not impose high demands for nothing. This requires that, unless there is a financial need or the inability to meet the housing demand, a positive view of tenant associations and municipalities is required. That seems like quite a threshold to me. It is not for nothing that the Chamber and I have incorporated into that law, because we do believe that there have been too few mergers in the past in a number of cases. But a minister must also abide by the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u45	Once again, I would like to stress that, as Members of Parliament, we should just keep our finger on the pulse here; I do that too. We will continue to do so. This is not meant to interfere with all individual cases; of course housing corporations must also be able to move. But I do hope that we will continue to support the lessons of the survey. I gave it two years of my life. I still stand for it, too. A moloch of 57,000 homes without proven need for the tenants: so you just shouldn't do that. I would like to hear the Minister's response one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u46	In order to prevent such a merger, you have to abide by the law. It's still a rule of law. So you must be able to indicate that the law is not being complied with at one point. Fortunately, the new law is much sharper on that than the old law. We are at a complicated moment in time, when the new law will most likely be in force. Mr Van Vliet, like me, will have read a number of critical reactions from the country. However, I cannot give a law any pre-working effect. For the rule of law, it is essential that the laws currently in force are applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Monasch, you'd already been here. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u48	It's important, because this is going to be a test: how do we handle this? I think the Minister is right that we would not have stood here if a housing corporation that has plans with 2,000 homes wanted to merge with a corporation that has plans with 1,000 homes. Then there was a completely different situation. I'll be brief. The point here is that the Minister is system responsible. Here comes a merger of two corporations that can influence, override and threaten the system. The two categoral older housevards that we still have, suddenly go together. It affects the system. From that point of view, you can expect a much more active responsibility from the Minister. I'd like to hear how he looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u49	The prohibition or authorisation of a merger must be based on the law. That makes sense in a rule of law. Moreover, it will be reviewed by the court if the parties disagree, whether they are corporations, landlords or municipalities. I have just indicated that I immediately recognise and fill in the term'system responsibility' along the line: the legislation must be good and supervision must be properly regulated. However, he does not allow me to intervene in individual cases on criteria other than those laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u50	Secondly, Mr Monasch, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u51	Shouldn't it be so that as a system manager you can say: such a large corporation, so categoral, I don't want to be in my system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u52	On that criterion, the law does not allow me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u53	Let me be clear: if a merger application is submitted before 1 July and a decision is taken after 1 July, what law will apply, the old one or the new one? What is the determining factor: the date of the application or the date of the decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u54	That's the date of the decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u55	Then we're out. If the date of the decision is decisive, then the problem is solved. If there is a merger application before 1 July, the call is: just decide on it after 1 July. Then we can just fight this merger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u56	That call concerns the inspection, the ILT. Every administrative body shall be bound by reasonable decision-making procedures. Training to train, that can't make an administrative board. Mr Fritsma will understand that. But I've already indicated that it's going to be extremely tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u57	The problem has been solved. If a few months are waiting for a decision to be taken, I do not think there is a time limit for decision. That term is, out of my head, six months. My appeal is to make that decision just after July 1st. Then we'll be off the hook, and we'll be able to fight this merger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u58	Again, this is a call to the ILT, because that is the institution that receives and assesses the request for merger. It will have to comply with a reasonable decision-making period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr Verhoeven, you've already been there. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u60	I just wanted to say that I think this approach of the PVV is a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u61	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u62	I really hope that the Minister also realizes that time is important in this situation. If we think a little creatively, we can deal with it in a very decent way, also taking into account the position of the supervisor in the new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u63	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u64	I would like a somewhat warmer response from the Minister to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u65	I'd like to respond warmly, if possible, but also here is the position that the application doesn't come to me, but to the inspection. Fortunately, we have agreements in this country on proper response periods. I would break the independence of the inspection if I said to the inspection: do you want to leave the application for a while? I don't think that's the independence the Chamber and I have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mrs. Karabulut, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u67	Is it true that the Minister has to make a final judgment? Suppose that specific request is made before 1 July. What does the timeline look like after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u68	It is the inspection that judges in individual cases. That is the independence which the Chamber so much stresses and which I also found important. The timetable before the new law enters into force is as follows. As soon as the ILT has received a request, again, at this time it is not going to ask for an opinion from the Central Fund Housing. That has four weeks to respond to that. Following the adoption of that opinion, the ILT has eight weeks to decide. That sum of things indicates that it's going to be extremely tight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u69	Then where are the views of the municipalities? At what point will the Chamber be informed of this decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u70	Under the current law, it is not the mandatory provision that is contained in the new law for municipalities and tenant organisations, but a possibility provision. In the application submitted by the corporation to the ILT, it will have to add those views. So they're at the very beginning of the trajectory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u71	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mrs Karabulut also asked about the personal union between Woonzorg Nederland and Espria. Under the new law, a provision on this subject has entered into force: personal unions are not allowed and existing personal unions have to be phased out in one and a half years. Furthermore, Woonzorg has announced to the Netherlands that it intends to dissolve the personal union with Espria. The corporation is not yet obliged to do so, but it is under the new law. Ms Karabulut asked about the decision of the ACM. That is consumer control, a type of supervision other than the one I am responsible for as a minister. The question arises as to whether there would be insufficient choice between social housing providers in the areas of activity of the corporations. On that part, the ACM said: we see no objection in that part. That is really a very different judgment than allowing or not allowing a merger by the ILT people's house. Mrs Karabulut asked if I can guarantee that the tenants will be fully informed. The answer is yes. The tenants must also be informed under the current law. Under the new law, they really have to give an opinion. Apart from the two exceptions I have already mentioned, urgent financial necessity and inability to meet the popular housing demand, a positive view of tenants is required. Mrs. Karabulut and others asked if there's a fusion wave coming. At the moment, the ILT deals with two concrete merger applications, both of some smaller corporations. I understand there would be three more mergers in the pipeline. If I compare that with the number of merger requests last year, when there were a total of ten, that is no indication that there is a wave coming now. Mr Verhoeven asked what is the position of the works council. He will understand that I am not directly responsible for this and that this is therefore not part of the people's housing test either. However, it is good practice in the Netherlands to ask for the opinion of a works council to make far-reaching decisions for an organisation. If the works council finds himself not sufficiently heard, he can go to court on his own. I have already answered Mr Van der Linde's question as to which law is applicable in response to an interruption. With this I hope to have answered the questions asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u73	I understood from the Minister's reply that the personal union with Espria is in disbandment. However, my question was also whether the new personal union between Woonzorg and Habion, which we also heard, is in the making.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u74	I don't have any specific information on that. For this purpose, it is no longer allowed to enter into a personal union after 1 July. Personal associations already in existence before 1 July must be dissolved in a year and a half at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mrs Karabulut in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u76	It seems pretty crucial to me to find out. I also think it is important to ask whether the tenants have been informed at the moment. I just don't know. I do know that the works council is very angry and that there is a lot of messing around. A driver has left and a number of drivers have made decisions with each other in a shady construction. I would be pleased if the Minister would at least make the effort to obtain clarity and to inform us about it. I understand that the Minister is not yet fully aware of the state of play on these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u77	That's because there was no request for merger at the inspection. It's the inspection that's judging.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u78	But this isn't just about the inspection that's judging something, is it? It's a situation. The situation at the moment is that there is a intention to develop a system corporation...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mrs Karabulut, you are already taking a third term. Now for your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u80	There's a lot of unrest. This concerns the position of the tenants and the staff. All I ask the Minister is whether he is prepared to find out what the state of affairs is and to deal with all the specific questions and to inform the Chamber very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u81	Again, where we have agreed that the assessment of a merger is carried out by a supervisor, it is also logical for a supervisor to do so. I do not think I should go through that as a minister in individual cases. It was a very urgent request from the Court not to judge in individual cases. I share that, by the way, and that's how I recorded it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u82	I do not think I have heard the answer to one question. In what way is the wider organisation of the elderly housing included in the elderly housing plan and by Mr Norder's recruitment team? Will questions such as how this can best be organised in the future be included?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u83	I regularly consult with Mr Norder and his team and I am happy to ask him in his role as a driver about the consequences of mergers in the housing of the elderly. So this is not a formal approval or rejection of the merger, because it does not have that role. We will not let his team guide that process for nothing; for example, for the views of municipalities and of tenant organisations, it can be very important to know how he and his team look at it. So I would like to make that commitment, but I cannot translate it into a formal role for the chasing team in approving or rejecting this merger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term, if I understand correctly. In the second term of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mr Monasch of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and his support for the information we have received in the first term. I have one motion, which I have tabled on behalf of Mrs Karabulut. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the plans for a planned merger or personal union between Woonzorg Nederland and Habion already lead to much frustration, uncertainty and quarrel;]] [[Whereas these plans are not in line with the letter and spirit of the new revised Housing Act, which focuses, inter alia, on democratically anchored local and regional bonding and limiting large scale;]] [[expresses its disapproval of the proposed merger or personal union plans between Woonzorg Nederland and Habion;]] [[calls on the government, in accordance with the opinion of the Chamber, to do everything possible to prevent this merger or personal union,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Monasch and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-373]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr. Chairman. The motion tabled by Mr Monasch and myself is clear enough: this merger must not take place. But I thought the minister was a little less clear. Of course, he's a system administrator and, of course, we have a supervisor. However, there is a special situation here: there is a date for a new law in which tenants and staff are given a stronger position and even a right of consent. The Minister has already indicated that it seems impossible for him, given the deadlines. Finally, the Minister must make a final assessment as to whether the merger serves the popular housing interest, the interests of tenants, the interests of the municipality and the interests of the elderly. Can he reassure the Chamber and say that, given the procedures, he will not be able to assess the merger before 1 July? If he can, is he prepared to inform the Chamber in advance in the trial? I regret that the Minister does not clarify the state of the new personal union that would have been or may have already formed Housing and Habion. I would like to make another attempt to clarify that. Is the Minister prepared to request this information? I therefore refer to the question whether the tenants have been informed, whether the municipalities are involved and what about the staff. These all seem to me to be relevant points, especially if we take ourselves seriously, in line with Mr Van Vliet, and this Minister has drawn the right lessons from the parliamentary inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr. Chairman. In view of the limited speaking time, I shall immediately table my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas housing corporations look for housing care and Habion scaling up via a merger or a "personal union" where participation has passed within Woonzorg;]] [[Whereas this would create a moloch with approximately 57,000 units rented, while Housing Care is still in a unbundling process of a previous failed merger;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of its in-depth investigation, the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations concluded that scale should be limited in this sector and that mergers should be more strongly motivated;]] [[Whereas the law requires the prior agreement of the Minister, requesting the views of local and local authorities;]] [[Considering that, despite this, some directors of approved institutions still seem to have very high ambitions with regard to scaling up;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account the outcome of the parliamentary survey mentioned above in its consideration of these merger plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr. Chairman. We have had a clear debate in which the Chamber has given its clear opinion and the Minister has been clear. He says: trust the law that you have made and enter into on 1 July. I trust that law and everything we've got in it, including the independent home authority. I would like to emphasise that I wholeheartedly agree with the Minister that the home authority should be able to make an independent assessment. I made this very clear on behalf of D66. However, it amounts to one point, the date of 1 July 2015. I am genuinely concerned about that. If it happens just as quickly before that date, the gap still in the law will be used, which we have not changed so much after the publication of the Committee of Inquiry's report. I think it is not inconceivable that the two corporations should try to complete the merger before then. The Minister didn't deny it either. I want to scorch that. Mr Fritsma of the PVV had in my view a very sensible suggestion. He is also tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter. I have a similar motion. I'm filing it now just to be sure. If it turns out that Mr Fritsma's motion has the same cover as my motion, I shall withdraw mine later. I thought Mr Fritsma had a good proposal. If he takes that in a motion and the Minister says it's okay, I'll withdraw my motion, which I'm now filing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that housing corporations are considering merging Housing and Habion and that such a merger may have negative consequences for current and future tenants;]] [[Considering that a new law will enter into force on 1 July 2015 and that it contains good safeguards in relation to mergers;]] [[Whereas it is possible that Housing and Habion may try to merge before this new law enters into force;]] [[calls on the Government to do everything in its legal capacity to ensure that the application for the merger of Housing and Habion will be covered by the new law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-375]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr. Chairman. My concern was also in that bridging period until 1 July, but I find the answers given by the Minister to these questions very encouraging. So two corporations still have an application pending, while three are still in the pipeline. So there is no such thing as a boom that we may have to be afraid of. If it does not like the inspection in one way or another, it may decide to take the decisions on the applications only after 1 July. I do not think it is right for the Minister to put pressure on him to lift it over 1 July. When I get my head straight, I actually think this process is pretty neatly secured until 1 July. I therefore have no objection whatsoever to supporting motions in this area. I therefore hope that we can simply allow the inspection to proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr. Chairman. The fraction of the PVV doesn't like a merger. A merger also does not fit in with the findings and recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations. Fortunately, we can probably prevent the merger we are discussing here in a fairly simple way, within the framework of the law. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of a merger application by housing corporations, the date of the application is not the date of the application but the date of the decision determining which legislation is applicable;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the decision on the merger of Woonzorg Nederland and Habion is taken after 1 July 2015, in so far as the legal decision-making period allows,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29453-376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr. Chairman. All spokesmen once again expressed the need to exercise restraint and care in mergers. That is why we have strengthened the law. We are in a special position shortly before the entry into force of the new law. Against this background, a number of motions have been tabled. Mr Monasch's motion and Mrs Karabulut's motion for a resolution 373 calls on the government, in accordance with the opinion of the Court, to do everything possible to prevent this merger or a personal union. As I did in the first term, I really have to make a cut here between the judgment in an individual case and the approach of the law. The law contains a lot of safeguards and restraint in the area of mergers, but we have agreed very clearly with each other that the supervisory authority will judge in individual cases within the legal frameworks that we have announced. We have announced frameworks for a merger. We have also announced frameworks for a personal union. In fact, new cases have been banned after 1 July and existing cases have to be closed within one and a half years. But since the motion asks me to act in an individual case, I must advise against her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u92	The motion asks the government to take steps, in accordance with the letter and the spirit of the new revision law, within the legal frameworks to make a merger impossible. It's about the scale, the way in which and you name it. So we do not ask the Minister to operate outside the law or to do anything impossible. We want him to act within the legal framework. Given the lessons of the parliamentary survey, can the Minister see this as support for policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u93	The legal framework for mergers has been strengthened. We agree on that. The same applies to personal associations. On the contrary, the legal frameworks for the supervisory authority's position are independent. I would really violate the legislation and, moreover, the agreements we have made with each other if I were to act in any individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u94	Surely the Minister must also judge whether mergers serve the people's housing interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u95	The inspection is judging. I have once again pointed out to the Chamber, and I have also had the very strong support of the Chamber, that the Minister does not judge in individual cases. However, we have tightened the laws and regulations on mergers and personal unions so that the supervisory authority can act very closely in these individual cases. I must respond along the same line to Mr Van Vliet's motion on part No. 374, in which the Government is invited to take into account the above-mentioned outcome in its consideration of these merger plans. My answer is that in this case the inspection will make its assessment within the legal frameworks we have agreed on. In his motion in part No. 375 calls on the Government, within the legal framework, to make every effort to ensure that the merger application is covered by the new law. I've already indicated that there's a good chance. However, if I were to ask the inspection to carry out the procedure knowingly so long that the date of 1 July is passed, I would also intervene in an individual case. In doing so, I would violate the independence of the inspection. In his motion, Mr Fritsma asked for item No. 376 is actually the same thing, so my reaction is also: dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u96	I understand that the motions on the items Nos. 374 and 375 are not recommended. The minister said "the same line." Let me get this straight. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u97	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u98	Could the Minister say whether Mr Fritsma's motion and my motion are the same, achieve the same goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u99	The operative part of Mr Verhoeven's motion is that the government should make every effort, within the legal framework, to ensure that the application for the merger of Woonzorg and Habion will be covered by the new law. The operative part of Mr Fritsma's motion is: asks the government to take care of the decision on the merger of Woonzorg Nederland and Habion after 1 July 2015. Yeah, that's basically the same thing. I fear that my judgement is the same, because in both cases it is asked to act in an individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u100	I just wanted to make sure that the motions on the Minister's behalf are the same. I would have said that I might be able to withdraw my motion. I'm not doing that yet. I will explain to Mr Fritsma in a moment why I am not doing so now. I know in any case that the Minister thinks that both motions are the same and that if one of the two motions makes it, we will achieve the goal I wanted to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u101	You're not withdrawing the motion. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u102	I hear one thing from the Minister throughout this debate, namely that we have agreed with each other that there will be an independent home authority. I fully agree with that; I fully agree with that. The Minister endorsed the conclusions of the survey. After two years of investigation on behalf of the entire Chamber, we come to the conclusion that you have to set a limit on the scale and that you should only approve such a merger if it is proven to be a major advantage for tenants. If that's not the case, you'll only get a moloch far removed from tenants. At the time, the Minister himself endorsed this, and we have done so for the entire House of Representatives for two years with all the powers of inquiry, and we come to that conclusion. Then why do I hear in this debate all the time that we are making agreements about an independent home authority? Yeah, but we also have that conclusion. Can the Minister say something about it from his own point of view and perspective as a statesman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u103	The challenge of being able to speak as a statesman, I'm happy to take it. As a statesman, I say that the views of the survey and of the Chamber are laid down in law. The point that Mr Van Vliet is referring to, the position of the tenant, is also very explicit: from 1 July there is also a need for a positive opinion, with the exception of the special circumstances. Fortunately, we have ensured this much better. However, a statesman is also bound by the law, so the review of an individual case will be carried out in accordance with the legal wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u104	Mr Van Vliet, do you still need a brief comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u105	I have always appreciated the Minister's efforts. I am now disappointed that all I hear is this mantra, when we have come to the conclusion that we have to set limits on scale. If I had been there as a minister, I would have dared to say to the Chamber: I agree, of course, with you in substance, that we should set limits on these cooperatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u106	Suppose a minister would make a claim here that is not guaranteed by the law, then anyone who would go to court to challenge that decision would be right from that judge. Therefore, I do not make any claims that are not made on the basis of legal guarantees, however much I share the critical attitude towards mergers with Mr Van Vliet. I believe that we have therefore laid this down in the law and that a merger is not assessed on a case-by-case basis by a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u107	There is still a great deal of tension. The Chamber has passed a law and it cannot imagine that there will be a merger test that will be approved. The law will then have to be tightened up, so that one does not get into the bollocks to do so, or the ILT has become so free to interpret that we seem to have left too much room in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u108	This is, of course, speculating about the ILT's judgement, or the home authority after 1 July, about a merger application, which we have a strong suspicion of being there, but which is not yet there. We must not make that decision until that decision has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u109	Then I'll leave it at this signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u110	I would like to thank the Minister for Wonen and Rijksdienst, his staff, our MPs and, of course, the public who followed this debate with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-15-tweedekamer-7.u111	The votes on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday.
