ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. I firmly believe that a personalised budget for many people is the only way to direct and self-determination, and that it is therefore very important for the quality of life. As a result, people are less dependent and can decide how and by whom care is given. That is why it hurts as much as people who need to be able to count on it, be insecure or unsure about their personal budget or pay it to their caregivers. I too do not see numbers for me, but the people behind them: the parents who have been able to provide care and support for their child, whether or not together with others, often after a very long search. Or people with disabilities who, with guidance, can decide for themselves when to go to. Or Veronique Hooglugt, who I sometimes speak to because she is the ambassador for intensive child care and who as a little girl has been through so much and tries to live as normal a life as possible by the efforts of her parents. If the introduction of the new method, the right to draw, is not going well, then it affects people. First of all, it affects the people themselves, very personally. You just want your money on time. But of course it is also evident from the involvement of the Chamber, again today. And it's touching me, too. Drawing rights are of course never meant to leave people like Veronique and her parents in uncertainty or motivated caregivers without money. Drawing rights are intended to make the pgb system future-proof for the pgb holders, for their relatives and for their caregivers. On the contrary, I want the personal budget to be a fully-fledged and sustainable instrument in the care of the future. On the contrary, I do not want good budget holders to be watched when it is abused or when pgb-holders themselves become victims of abuse. That's why we introduced the right of draw. But precisely because it is a vulnerable group, it is also wrong to have introduced it in this way. That is why I have already apologized to all those people who are affected by the introduction problems, and that is why we are working day and night to solve and detect all the problems. That's what we're gonna keep doing until all these problems are solved. And that is precisely why I sometimes deepen myself in the personal problems that people experience in paying or not paying for their personal budget. And that is precisely why I ask the Social Insurance Bank, municipalities and health offices to pull everything out of the closet and to detect and solve problems in all corners and holes. And that is precisely why there are a number of people in my ministry who, if there are signals from the Chamber or from elsewhere, are just going to call to see if they can solve it for those people. We have been talking for almost 20 years about a way to find a good balance between a good design of the personal budget and a reasonable control to prevent abuse and misuse. That's a very complex operation. But why? Pgbs are now used in many different ways of providing care. People contract their own personal helpers. People engage with a pgb care of family. Parents arrange with pgb's joint care and stay in small-scale initiatives. Pgbs also fund small health care institutions. The pgb therefore provides a great need and will continue to do so. That's why we've anchored these personal budgets in all healthcare laws. This legal anchoring of pgbs in all laws gives budget holders more certainty about the future, something that has been talked about for so long. All this makes this issue of space versus a certain way of control, which has been going on for years, increasingly pregnant. The right to draw is an answer to this issue. It may not be the answer to the problem, but it is an answer. We have been discussing the introduction of drawing rights for a long time, and the House quite rightly called for the right of draw finally to be introduced so as to prevent pgb-holders themselves from becoming victims of abuse and to ensure that the money ends up in the hands of people who really need it. The introduction of the right of trekking involves changes for municipalities, insurers and health offices as well as new tasks. For budget holders and their caregivers, it means that they do not receive any more advance money in their accounts, but afterwards on the basis of a declaration of care provided. That sounds logical and normal, but in practice it turns out to be a big change from the old situation. All in all, this is a major operation, which is necessary and inevitable to ensure the future of the personal budget. Unfortunately, however, there are also implementation risks, which have indeed occurred and which I regret more than I do. In the follow-up to my story, I would like to address the questions that have been asked as to whether the risks are adequately anticipated. I will involve the report of the General Court in this. After that, I will consider the state of play. Many questions have been asked about this, in particular the question of whether we have not drawn too bright a picture. Then I will address the questions about the future: restore and improve step by step. First of all, I am talking about whether we have foreseen all the risks well enough. The start of the draw right just didn't go well. The pgb scheme is a complex issue; I have just said that we have had 20 years of discussion on it. In my letter of 18 May, the Chamber was able to read what was done in the preliminary stage to identify risks and take measures where they were deemed necessary. Throughout the mountain stretches it can be seen that has been tried to inventory risks in a lot of detail. What exactly are the risks? When do these risks occur? They've been appointed, judged and followed. We have tried to identify as many risks as possible with a project management throughout the whole process, and all the parties involved have been able to express their concerns and identify matters that they may or may not agree with. Sometimes buttons have been cut. I'm sure the parties didn't all agree either. That's what we've been able to read. But buttons had to be cut. For example, in mid-2014 we looked at which functionalities all had to enter the system. The municipalities had quite a few demands. Because of the feasibility of 1 January 2015, we said that we could not take all the functionalities and wishes with us. Occasionally you hear that parties say it would have been better if she had been right then. Parties also point to each other. I'm not gonna be a part of that. That is not in the interests of the budget holders. In that whole process, after weighing the risks, it was then considered that 1 January was feasible. It's been said all along. Has that been too optimistic? The Court's report highlights these issues by stating that the introduction has been careless by three factors: late decision-making, data transfer and management. Let me go through the points made by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has a point when it states that the legislative acts have been taken. The laws became final in 2014. However, we could anticipate it: there was draft legislation. It was well known before the introduction and you could then see what the regulation could reasonably mean. On the basis of that concept regulation, we anticipated what was in Parliament. There were also subsequent decisions, e.g. the Wlz-indicable decisions. Grosso modo decisions have been taken in different tempi and this has had an impact on the preparation time. The Court also notes that the Social Insurance Bank's system had not been tested for large amounts of data. The Social Insurance Bank would therefore not be able to process these data in time. That's true on one side, but it's not true on the other. In the current system, some 250,000 payments per month are made. Large quantities of declarations, care agreements and award decisions are processed. However, the Court is right that at the beginning of 2014 large amounts of information were sent to the Social Insurance Bank: the health care agreements and the grant notices. That huge clot at the Social Insurance Bank led to major problems in processing the data flow. I shall come back to that in detail later. I come now to the third point, the direction. After the first signals that there should be more direction on the whole chain because the links were very dependent on each other, those signals were picked up. These have led to comprehensive risk reporting and to measures aimed at a careful implementation. That is why it is all the more sour, even for me, that the implementation phase has been careless and that it has gone wrong, but there has been a strong direction, so strong that we have said at some point: if there are no approved health care agreements or if the award decisions have not yet been adopted, we do not want to run the risk that payments could not be made. That was quite an intervention, because this means that we have asked the Social Insurance Bank to pay despite the fact that these care agreements were not yet in place and despite the fact that the municipalities had not in all cases already taken grant decisions. At that time, we gave priority to payment and not to prior checking of care agreements. In its report, the Court recommended that a good implementation test be carried out in the event of major policy changes. There is discussion as to whether the roadmap is an execution key or not. You can look at that material, but also different. When you look at the material, you can see that the elements in that roadmap are normally also in an execution key. But we should not discuss that, because the General Court says that we might have seen more if we had taken an even more extensive implementation test. Maybe it is. We have done an execution test in the form of the road map, which contained almost all the elements you can expect in an execution test, but that did not lead to the understanding that we could have avoided those problems. In my letter of 18 May, I also addressed the question of whether I had other alternatives, which could have led to a better outcome. For example, I could have waived the right to draw or I could have put the execution at the health offices, which would then do it for the municipalities. This has been looked at, but I have always thought that any alternative you come up with must always bear in mind whether it would result in payments for ordinary people who are entitled to this money being made faster or less at risk. I have always tried to use that as a test for whether we had another alternative. In recent months I have, of course, constantly wondered, also in connection with the debate in this Chamber, whether it could have been better. Could we have foreseen this better? Could we have taken other measures? It's easy to talk in hindsight, but... Let me first await Mrs Keijzer's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u2	I hear the Secretary of State say that some thought has been given to making this happen in a different way, namely as it was before 1 January. Before January 1st, the payout of the pgbs went well. Why didn't it go well after 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u3	Because the implementation of the pgbs had to shift from those who had to decide on it in the situation we had, to those who would have to decide on it in the situation we had. Guidance and daily spending were always part of the AWBZ at the health offices, but now became the responsibility of the municipalities. Part of this responsibility was also assumed by health insurers. Whatever you might have made up, the law we passed also changed the responsibility for the execution of those pgbs. The municipalities had to decide much more on, for example, the care agreements and the award decisions. We had to settle that anyway, because we had changed those laws with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u4	These laws also state, at the very end, that you can allow the various articles to enter into force at another time: by Royal Decree it is established when which article will enter into force. So the Secretary of State could have decided not to carry out that other way of paying. He did not, in his own words, because it was better for the budget holders to introduce it. Again, why? It was fantastic before January 1st. If the Secretary of State had not changed it, it could have continued in the same way in 2015. Why didn't the Secretary of State listen to all these warnings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u5	These are actually two questions. The first is why a change has been made. The simplest, though the faintest answer is because we had changed the laws together. We've changed the laws on the pgb's, with other responsibilities. Furthermore, we had decided with each other to introduce the right of draw. But now the other side. Suppose we said, "Let's let the health offices do that for a while." Apart from the question of whether they could do so, they also dealt with other tasks, or would like to do so, we should ask whether 43 care offices for 43 municipalities, because that was in the law, which could carry out tasks and compare each other. We do not know, but I asked the question at the time whether there were such risks that the budget holders would not get along with it. We have to consider every time what the least risk is for the budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u6	The Court of Auditors indicated that there was no clear "go/no go" moment. This also applies to many other areas of care. Actually, I'm hearing what the Secretary of State says about that as a confirmation. He states: we didn't know exactly what it would have been like if we had chosen an alternative. So you didn't make an explicit decision about going on, yes or no. Surely you cannot conclude otherwise than that you have not taken the recommendation of the Court of Auditors to come to a real implementation test? I have just heard the Secretary of State say once again that signals have been recognised in good time, whereas the Court of Auditors says that the signals have not been recognised in good time and that VWS has not provided sufficient response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u7	I will come to that second point. On the "go/no go" moment: that was already before, namely when the Chamber had decided to introduce the right of draw and to charge the SVB with it. As a result, the whole process of execution tests started, with the question of whether or not these tests are good, of identifying all kinds of risks and of bringing together all kinds of parties to ensure that all terms and conditions can be expressed. Then the whole process you're trying to get from A to B comes into effect. It may sound crazy to say, but that's actually a pretty normal process. You plan to perform something on date X, after which you will identify all the risks and take measures to see if you can tackle those risks. Regularly check whether or not you are on schedule, where the risks lie, whether measures need to be taken and whether planning is being made. That's how you try to work. Once again, I will come back to the question about the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u8	Then I'll check in at that time. The Secretary of State addresses the question of whether there has been a "go/no go" moment. That sounds a lot like a moving train. If there were any doubts as to whether it was going well, the SVB itself said "we had the feeling that it could go well," there must be a hard "go/no go" moment? "We felt that things could go well" isn't good enough, is it? Then you're taking risks that could have a big impact on pgb-holders, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u9	I heard in the debate the claim that you cannot base this on the gut feeling. Far from it. If something has happened, on the question of whether that was sufficient, I will come to the conclusion that it has been tried to look at the maximum risks involved in that process, what municipalities should do, what health offices should do, what comes down to the SVB, whether that is to be planned and so on. All reports show that this was followed very closely, with red, orange and green dots. That process has been rather meticulous and it should be. That doesn't mean that things are going well, so that's what we're going to talk about, but it does say that we did a lot of work at that time to make sure that we got the risks in mind. When you think you've found a good way, you have to make decisions. That they don't always work out well is verse two, but you can't say that's a very abnormal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u10	It is quite something when a government ignores the conclusion of the General Court of Auditors. There's gonna be a lot of things going on in the process. Everything has also been modified throughout the process. Plans have been made, there have been consultations and a lot of meetings have been held. But we're here for the sixth time. I would like to know from the Secretary of State, preferably in a brief and clear answer, whether it was a good decision to introduce the right of draw as of 1 January 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u11	Not in retrospect. You're trying to visualize all the risks, and that's why you're making a decision to do something. After January 1st, you come across situations and you say: things are sometimes not going well. Of course, I am very willing to look back on this and see what can be learned from it. I would ask the House to go along with the idea: yes, but would the alternatives have been so attractive to the budget holders? I dare to doubt that. That's wisdom after all, so we can't see that. Then it's about how we acted with each other, isn't it? I'll make the answer to the question a little longer. We do not reject the Court's conclusions at all. On a number of points, I do not entirely agree with the Court of Auditors' analysis of the precise reasons for its failure. But that it's been careless... Why do you think I apologized?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u12	Everyone can just read the reaction, which is also stated in the report of the General Court: the Ministry does not agree that the current state of affairs is incomplete and does not agree that the process has gone carelessly, and if mistakes have already been made, mistakes have been made by others, not by this govern ment. However, the Secretary of State gave a good answer, because now we know that it was not a good decision to grant the right to draw as of 1-1-2015. That seems to me to be an obvious answer, because everyone can see that that decision has not been good. The follow-up question is: why did the Secretary of State never take the Chamber before 1 January 2015, for example in the late summer, when he decided to take emergency measures? Why did he take away the opportunity to save himself from a huge fiasco?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u13	There are a few reasons for that. In the first place, we had decided together to anchor the right of draw in all those laws. Secondly, we decided to introduce the right of draw on 1 January 2015, after it had been postponed twice. Thirdly, there were indeed signs that there were risks.......................................................................................................................................................... In fact, the reporting also showed that 1 January was feasible. Then we can say afterwards that it did not go well on a number of points, but you cannot use that conclusion to say that it all went carelessly? That is a bit of the point I have with the Court of Auditors' report. I think that the Court of Auditors rightly mentions the late regulation, the transfer of data and the direction, and notes that this might have been better in a number of areas. The Court of Auditors also asks: have you sufficiently recognised the signals that were there? Apparently not evident. However, I do fight... On the basis of the whole picture, with everything we've depicted and with all the risks of all parties, everyone was allowed to say their piece and everyone was allowed to call any risk, you take measures and take the next step. Again, I wonder if any other decision, such as postponement or execution by the health offices or the municipalities, would have been in the interests of the budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u14	A brief question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u15	We have never been asked that question and therefore we have never been able to answer it. The Secretary of State is very handy here when he says "we" decided, "we" decided. If we had heard in the Chamber in November, December or in the late summer that things were not actually going so well and that emergency scenarios were therefore needed, we could indeed have taken a joint decision. However, the Secretary of State has denied us that information. Why did he not inform the Chamber about the extremely difficult process of introducing the right to draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u16	On 14 November, the administrative consultation decided to develop relapse scenarios and on 24 November I announced those relapse scenarios in response to parliamentary questions. On 22 December, I informed the Chamber about the introduction of the right of draw and the possible measures, fallback scenarios, in order to guarantee the continuity of care. On 13 January 2015, I told the Chamber that I recognised the risks identified by the General Court. In consultation with interested parties, I have designed relapse scenarios. Let us not say to each other that they have not been informed. If you feel that you are not sufficiently informed, then I am truly sorry, but it has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u17	I would also like to raise this point. The Secretary of State talks about alternatives that he felt would not be in the interest of the pgb-holders. But when did he share it with the Chamber and say he had those doubts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u18	That was actually the discussion about the relapse scenarios. When the Social Insurance Bank and others said that it might get exciting to process the care agreements, the reasoning was that we had to make sure that the budget holders could be paid on 1 January. Of course, the "go/no go" moment to ask the Social Insurance Bank to implement the right of draw and to identify all risks was much earlier. You can't go in October or November if you don't think things are going well with the health care agreements, would they be on time? Throw a big brake on it and come up with something else? Would that have been in the interests of the budget holders? We can now say that this might have been better, but I would point out that this would have been far from logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u19	The Secretary of State goes back a little further in time with regard to these alternatives. However, we have already indicated ourselves that we already mentioned in September that there were signs that this really was not going to work at all. That was September. The Secretary of State keeps talking about November when relapse scenarios and recovery plans were discussed. That was a very late moment, wasn't it? On all these previous signals, also from the Chamber because we heard them and with which we confronted the Secretary of State, he has always reassured us. So he didn't take us into the possibilities that there were. The Secretary of State keeps telling us you wanted all this. Yes, of course, we all did. But if we had been told that it was not feasible at this time, it would have been ready to go. Of course, as a Chamber, we would have reacted in a very different way than we are now asleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u20	Me, too, of course. What would have been my interest if there were signs that it was not feasible to consider it and not report it to the Chamber? During the period before January 2015, we presented the best possible picture of all risks and signals and provided measures that led to the conclusion that 1 January, with the measures taken, was feasible. Those are, of course, assessments you make with each other. That's right. But that doesn't mean that if we had received the signal at that time that it wasn't feasible, we would say: just go ahead? That would not be in my interest, it would not be in your interest, and that would of course not have been very useful for me in our mutual traffic either. Before that, they were risks and signals that were staged. In retrospect, these measures did not lead to the desired result, but let us not say to each other that before then there was a situation of 'we are not going to make it'. There was no such situation. The Court of Auditors also points that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u21	Those risks were, of course, very clear. When the Secretary of State says "I was told that all the time," he actually says that he was as insufficiently informed as we were, because he apparently didn't have that information either. I can see the Secretary of State reacting non-verbally, and I think that's fine, because I think this is important to know. At what point can you say this isn't going well? If all the signals are on the red, but it can still work out with a number of repairs, do you, as a ruler, have a responsibility to assess that and to know whether that is really realistic? I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether he thinks he himself is poorly or insufficiently informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u22	I have no reason to. I'm gonna take the other way around right now. The moment those signals were there, and we thought, "Wait a minute, are you okay?" We have asked for a number of counter-expertises. There have been two gateway reviews to see if the development of the ICT system and its implementation was correct. A privacy impact assessment has been carried out. A number of counter-expertises were also carried out at our request as to whether the red smileys were going to turn green. Is that still manageable in time? Each time we looked at whether there was a risk and whether we could invest it with measures. If we had any doubts about that, we could request a counter-expertise on it. In this way, we have tried to work until 1 January to tackle the risks as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u23	In question 104, the 50PLUS fraction used the term "insecure'. In the answer the rulers use "not carefully." In the last 15 minutes, I have heard the Secretary of State call the word 'insecure' twice. Is he willing to take back the tap on the nose he gave us in the answer to question 104?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u24	The answer to question 104 is not meant to be a tap on the nose in front of the Chamber. The question was: do you think there was any carelessness until January 1st? Our conclusion is different from that of the Court of Auditors. We say that we have tried to carefully identify all risks by 1 January and ensure that they are invested in measures. That you then find that the implementation has not gone very carefully, I very much agree with that. The Court of Auditors is right to do that. But what's just and can be, is that, despite all the measures you take, it's going to be different in practice. That's what makes you so bad, and that's what you have to learn from. You should also see how we can do it differently and how we're gonna fix it. I accept the conclusion that it has not been done carefully, but we have tried to identify all risks as carefully as possible in the preliminary stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u25	I keep hearing the Secretary of State say that it has not been careful or similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u26	That is the text of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u27	Oh, check it out. But at least he apologized for how it all happened. Now you have liability law: it went wrong and I've done wrong. That's what I'm looking for. Just now, the Secretary of State also said that the signals were not such that they couldn't get through. That's what he said on June 10, 2014. He said that he had no signals that the problems could not be solved before 1 January. But on 26 March 2014, two and a half months before that, the CIO, the highest ICT official, said the Court of Auditors quotes that ICT official in the report "It is unlikely that the ICT solutions were implemented by all parties before 1 January 2015. I know that from the Court of Auditors' report, which the Court has not yet received. That CIO isn't just any civil servant. It was appointed by the Cabinet, in a letter of November 2011, in response to other major policy implementation problems. Why did the Secretary of State dismiss this judgment? Wasn't this the kind of signal he should have said, boys, this isn't going so well; I have to go back to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u28	No, because you can see very well that the recommendations have been followed. I'll explain why. There are some recommendations that he says: you have to follow them very quickly, some things are urgent, and some things you might have to do. It is a very crucial point that Mrs Keijzer raises. If we have to meet all the function requirements of the system, for example by the municipalities, by 2015, the feasibility will be compromised. The municipalities didn't like that. That is exactly why we have said: the functional requirements you want in the system are not going to be met, because then the feasibility will be compromised by 1 January. The opinions have therefore simply been followed. That's what they're for. He was right to point out that if you add all those job demands together, and then you want to make it to January 1st, you can't do that and you have to delete them from the job requirements. We did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u29	Now the Secretary of State quotes from a report by the CIO, the highest ICT official. I assume that this report will finally come to the Chamber as soon as possible, so that we can also read with our own eyes what the Secretary of State is saying here. That's one. Two, there is no way that all these recommendations have been followed, because there is now a one-dimensional payout system running. A system, which is so totally lost, that all kinds of other information necessary to determine whether Mrs Dijkstra's motion has been carried out is impossible at all. I will come back to the other examples from my contribution later. Once again, does the Secretary of State not think that he has acted too hastyly and that he has underestimated what is going on now and that the Court's judgment is also "improperly" in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u30	It's just a few questions you're asking. The first concerns the reporting of the CDI. It was sent to the Chamber for confidential inspection. You've been able to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u32	No, no, we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answer first, and then I'm gonna figure that out and I'm gonna come back to you in a minute. Proceed with your answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u33	So that is one; I also pointed that out in a letter to the package you received. Secondly, these opinions are also in favour of ensuring that recommendations are followed. If you try to predict as well as possible changes in policy or implementation or that implementation is going well and then it turns out that a number of things you have tried to foresee are not going well, which is worthless, then you can only come to the conclusion that it did not go well. I agree. Then you should see what you can learn from it. However, it will not be the case that in everything you want to change, whether that's the concern or something else, you can provide 100% of what happens afterwards and whether it all goes as you planned. May I give you an example? Based on the pilots, we have looked at what will be delivered about automatically and what will be delivered manually. The assumption was 50% manual and 50% via the system. In practice, it turns out that people make much more use of the paper delivery. That makes a lot of difference, also for the work of the SVB. I am also thinking of the pace of delivery of the documents by the municipalities. Somewhere in August, you start writing. You expect a pattern and then two things appear, namely that the pattern, that delivery is very different and that the quality of the content of those pieces is also quite different than expected. Then there is a delay in the implementation process. That is what you try to provide as well as possible and then you conclude that reality behaves differently than you have foreseen. That's gonna happen a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u34	Before I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer, I would like to say that she made a justified remark about quoting a confidential document. I won't let Chamberlains do that. I heard in your reply, Secretary of State, that you said something that you yourself said was in the confidential document. I can't judge it because I haven't read it. I can only say in all directions that we cannot debate publicly documents that are confidential for inspection. I do not want to make a point of order because the content of the debate is much more important. So we are not going to discuss this point any further; I have made it as I would in the direction of a Member of Parliament. I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer to place her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u35	I didn't quote from that piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u36	No, I'm saying it in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u37	I quoted from the Court of Auditors' report...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u38	You made that very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u39	... in which the CIO says: it is unlikely that the ICT solution will be realised by all parties before 1 January 2015. I didn't see the play. Because I think it's a ghost game that you keep a piece confidential for inspection. 'Cause what's in it for me? The Secretary of State is now quoting from the play. The point is that the Secretary of State says: I have not received any signals that the problems cannot be resolved before 1 January 2015. There is the opinion of the highest ICT official I have just mentioned. Doesn't that mean the Secretary of State has underestimated what's going on? The ICT system should have different functionalities, but it does not. What remains is a simple payment system. I sometimes make the comparison with your and my payment app on our iPad, which has no connection to everything behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u40	Your question is: did the Secretary of State underestimate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u41	The question is: wouldn't it have been much better to shut it down afterwards and postpone it for a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u42	That is also a question that can be asked afterwards. When you enter business, you have to weigh a few things. First of all, the question is what functionality you bring into the system can lead to the 1 January date not being feasible. Then you have to decide that in every project you do what you do and what you don't do before January 1st. Secondly, my priority has always been: whatever you decide, let us ensure that payments to people can be made as undisturbed as possible from 1 January 2015. Then you can come up with new functionalities again, but if they could put this at risk, I do not think that this would be a good consideration. Thirdly, if you would say that you're going to do it differently, that you're going to postpone it or that you're going to let the health offices do it, then we also have to consider what this means for the budget holder's position. I have always tried, if things had to be carried out, to look at it through the budget holder's eyes, because priority should be to ensure that payments go smoothly. If you would then want to have some functionality in the system for monitoring the production properly or keeping a close eye on the course and the rotational speed, you should indeed make choices. However, these choices are justified, as far as I am concerned, if they contribute to ensuring that payments are made as effectively as possible on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u43	The Secretary of State has only just begun and has actually driven the entire Chamber against him. What I'm talking about is the constant repetition of the words "together": we've wanted it together, we've made legislation with each other, we've decided that we wanted this right of draw. The reason why I am calling for this is that the Secretary of State wants to make us jointly responsible for where he is the ultimate responsible and where he should have made the judgment that none of this could be done. What makes us all angry is that we didn't share the same information position at all. The information is the progress report of the SVB, the report of Deloitte....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm getting a little tired of this kind of pretty talk and wanting to get us involved. I expect another debate with nothing but nice talk. I was rather shocked when yesterday I read in Het Parool that the Secretary of State had a very unusual conversation with the press in a The Hague establishment with a beer. I would like to get some information about this, at least on the place where it was and the way in which the Secretary of State has been talking to the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u44	On that last point I am completely guilty, because I stayed in Nieuwspoort and met journalists there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u45	Was the Secretary of State in Nieuwspoort by any chance or did he meet with those journalists there? Now the suggestion is that it was a coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u46	No, both of them. A number of journalists wanted to see me and knew I'd get there. A number of journalists were there and joined it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u47	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u48	Both then are not true; you are somewhere coincidental or not coincidental. The Secretary of State did not happen to go to Nieuwspoort to inform the press about this debate in a very unusual way while enjoying a beer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u49	As far as I know, the Nieuwspoort code is that the meetings between politicians and journalists can just take place in Nieuwspoort and that it is quite unusual to express all kinds of speculation about this. I won't. I was going to go to Nieuwspoort, I wasn't there at all by chance, there were also journalists, with some of them we had agreed and some of them were added.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr Van der Staaij; no, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u51	Then I want to make my second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u52	You just asked three questions. I am going to see Mr Van der Staaij and you can come back in a moment. Mr. Van der Staaij, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u53	From Nieuwspoort again to the preparation process, to the introduction of the drawing right. The Secretary of State has indicated that this process of preparation has been thorough, as he describes it, and that all kinds of risks have been assessed. However, the answer to the questions also says: we regret that the introduction of the right of draw has not been careful. Then where does the Secretary of State see the lack of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u54	That's always a bit easier for me to talk after all. Based on the pilots and the advice you get, you make all kinds of assessments. I told you, how much does it come by post or not by post? What will be the pace of approval of care agreements? Reality is sometimes different. The Court of Auditors says that you could have traced cases of this kind more early if you had taken an even more extensive implementation test. That could be very good. Perhaps the execution test should have been even more extensive. After 1 January, the inhibition in the health care agreements arose and it became very difficult for the Social Insurance Bank to process the health care agreements at a good pace. If you'd known that before, you could've scaled up sooner. The scaling took place after January 1st, but it might have been possible a little earlier. They're all things you might have discovered earlier. In hindsight, you'd probably have avoided more trouble. I tried to paint my picture. I really think that we have tried to respond to the risks identified, but I agree with the Court that the actions have not led to the problems being avoided. Of course, I've also wondered what we could have done. Rather scale up, extend the implementation test, improve communication even further: the Court of Auditors is right that this would have been wise. We can discuss whether the Court of Auditors is okay or not, but it does not matter in the eyes of the budget holder. If things have gone wrong, you can see afterwards that the process has gone through carefully, but if it affects the budget holder, that is the issue. If it didn't go well there, it just didn't go well. I can keep a nice story about the care, but it's bothering the budget holder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u55	That is true, but we also want to learn lessons for future system changes. For that it is relevant to look back and see where it went wrong. The execution test could have helped if it had been designed more broadly. Is that the most important point or does the Secretary of State see other things that everyone has to answer in order to avoid problems in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u56	The second is the point of chain dependence. Mr Van der Staaij has already mentioned this in his speech. I think he called it a lot of hoops you have to jump through. That number is certainly very high, so a lot of switching time has taken place. The chain dependence is therefore very high, especially in the execution of the draw right. In the simplification debate that we are going to have, it is a very important lesson for me that we reduce that risk significantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u57	In the debate, the Secretary of State said that it would not have been a good decision to grant the right to draw as from 1 January. That is, of course, wisdom afterwards, but I think it is an important observation and recognition. That's why I'm gonna remind you. I have also heard the Secretary of State say that it is obvious that VWS did not recognise the signals sufficiently. In the response of the Ministry to the Court's report, he said exactly the opposite. He said that the signals had been recognized and that the signals had been acted on the basis of the signals. What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u58	I agree with the Court of Auditors on the fact that we recognized the signals. We have taken measures to this end. Of course, the Court of Auditors has a point when it says that the signals are not sufficiently recognised, because the measures have not prevented the problems. We have sincerely tried to identify the risks with all parties and to provide them with measures. Next, it is about interpretation and weighing. The Court of Auditors is now wondering whether we have sufficiently recognised the signals, because the problems have not been avoided. That's always easy to talk about after all. In each process you try to make an assessment of the course. Reality sometimes behaves differently. That's really annoying, you have to learn from that, and you have to try to do better next time. However, it does not remove the conclusion. By the way, it'll be the budget holders' way of doing it. If he or she doesn't get any money, it's just bad stuff and you have to admit that it didn't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u59	I have also considered this in the previous debate. We are now facing major implementation problems. I asked how we can now face these major problems if we continue to insist that there is sufficient action on the signals. I hear the Secretary of State say the signals are not sufficiently recognized. I also heard him say that they are trying to make the best possible assessments with the wisdom of the moment. However, we now have to conclude together that there have been major errors of assessment. Does the Secretary of State agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u60	If, despite all the measures, the problems that exist cannot be avoided, then of course you must say: that is not good. It's as simple as that. You're trying to make those assessments in advance. If they do not turn out right afterwards, you have to say afterwards that it was not good. I did point out that if you then make those assessments and see what you can do, the number of scenarios in which you act is of course also limited. I repeat that we have tried, on the basis of all these signals, to keep in mind that the budget holder is being paid as much as possible. Even the fallback scenarios, of which the Social Insurance Bank, of course, has suffered, because care contracts had to be paid out that were not approved, and grant decisions had to be paid out, were aimed at making it possible, in any case, for the budget holder to be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u61	With my experiences from previous lives as a journalist and as an educator, I am still very interested in the answer to Mrs Agema's question. The Secretary of State went to Nieuwspoort and met journalists there. He shouldn't be so light about that, because it's very common to meet journalists at Nieuwspoort. Secretary of State, with some journalists you had an appointment made in advance and others you met by chance. What was the invitation? What had your officials asked those journalists when they were asked to come to Nieuwspoort?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u62	There were some journalists who liked to talk to me about some of the questions they had.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u63	Was the initiative taken by those journalists or was it your informers who sent out that invitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u64	If you don't blame me, I wouldn't know. If we get the signal that there are journalists who have questions, then I just want to answer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u65	I would like to go on to the point raised by Mrs Dik-Faber, because she raised the question very clearly as to whether an error of assessment has been made here. I didn't hear the Secretary of State answer that. The General Court has clearly indicated that the signals have not been recognised sufficiently and that they have not been adequately adjusted. In response to that report, the Secretary of State says that the signals have been recognized and that they have been responded to. What is it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u66	They were recognized but subsequently speckled insufficiently recognized.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u67	Why is that not in the response to the report of the General Court? It now seems as if the conclusions and recommendations of the Court of Auditors are being ignored in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u68	I regret that, but I thought it appropriate to point out in the debate with your Chamber and in the appreciation of the Court of Auditors' report that the signals were not recognised, but that they were not sufficiently recognised afterwards, because they did not prevent these problems. That is the case, and I would like to make that explicit once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u69	I would like to know from the Secretary of State who is responsible for insufficiently recognizing the signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u70	Let's be very simple about that. The moment you take responsibility for the change, you also take responsibility for the mistakes that are made. Then you must also take responsibility to try to solve them as well as possible. Then we must learn from the mistakes that have been made. Do you want to hear: are you now responsible for the mistakes made in the assessments? Whoever made them, I'm responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u71	I am also saying this because the Secretary of State has already said in many words today: it went wrong. That's what he said before. He even says today: it sucks that everything went wrong. Then it sounds a little like it went outside of him. He now indicates that he is responsible for the whole process of change, but does he now feel that he could be sufficiently directing this and that he himself had enough information to conduct that direction in the right way? I also asked the Secretary of State a few months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u72	I have no reason to believe that I would have insufficient information to make good choices. I just said that with all the parties, with municipalities, health offices, Social Affairs, Social Insurance Bank and VWS, we tried to get a picture of all the risks. It was also tried, when it was not clear exactly what those risks were, to set up counter-expertise. All the measures taken led to the conclusion that 1 January 2015 was feasible. On that basis, we have said: then we will do it. After all, things did not go well, and I am even more upset about that than the Chamber, so to speak. This is a statement that you can make afterwards and that you must stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u73	What does that mean? There are so many parties involved and so many reports have appeared. We only received it at the end of April, but last year, in the gateway reviews, it was warned towards Zorginstituut Nederland: it is not five to twelve, but five to twelve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u74	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u75	How does the Secretary of State feel about that? How does he judge that, despite everything, things could go so wrong? He says: everyone was involved, but still it went wrong and now I'm sorry that it still went wrong. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u76	Because at the beginning of January some things accumulate. At that time we noticed that the care agreements are coming in too late and that we still have a lot to do about quality. The granting decisions are then within, but have not yet been adopted, so we have to pay and approve the health care agreements. And yet we are overwhelmed with phone calls where the accessibility is bad. All this led to major problems in the implementation organisation, especially in the beginning. That's right. It means that in reality things were different from what we had anticipated before. That's really annoying. We have to learn from that, and you feel responsible for that, but that happens. Sometimes reality takes place differently than you had previously imagined, for whatever reason. The crucial question is whether, at that time, we have seen reason to see that it went completely wrong, whether that introduction was not feasible as of 1 January 2015 or whether we should not begin to do so. There haven't been any such signals. However, I acknowledge that, if things go wrong afterwards, we have to see afterwards that it is simply not done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u77	I'm just trying to figure it out. The Secretary of State says: I have received signals and I have acted on them, but in view of the problems that have arisen, I must now acknowledge that we have not done enough to deal with the problems and that errors of assessment have been made. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u79	I have all kinds of documents here. In the sixth month following the introduction of the right of draw, we became much wiser about what happened last year. Honor who deserves credit: on 26 August 2014 Mrs Keijzer asks a series of very good questions, including whether it is true that there will be relapse scenarios. They're definitely made in late summer. The Secretary of State then takes over two months to answer these parliamentary questions. Just now he said: I informed the Chamber. I find the Chamber actively providing information something other than answering parliamentary questions, but that is a value judgment, so let me not talk about that. In the answer to these parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State says that a system will be in place from 1 January 2015 to allow clients to pay for the care and support they need from the pgb. How else did it happen? Reality took a run at the reality of the Secretary of State. On the same day, however, we read in the reconstruction of the General Court of Auditors, which I thank very much for this reconstruction, because we did not receive it from the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u80	Your question, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u81	On the same day that the aforementioned parliamentary questions were answered, the municipalities said they felt they were failing and told the Social Insurance Bank to worry about the feasibility of the relapse scenarios. Why did the Secretary of State fail to mention this in his reply to those parliamentary questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u82	The identification of the risks and the views on all these scenarios was an ongoing process. We have developed these relapse scenarios precisely because there were signs that it might not go well with the healthcare agreements. If these scenarios are designed, then we must also decide to introduce them on the basis of the signals we have received. We have tried to do so as best we can. You're getting signals: Are you okay? Then you're going to develop relapse scenarios and then, if you go further in the year and find that it doesn't go well, you're going to implement those relapse scenarios as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u83	That wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u84	We tried to do it as best we could. Every time we had to take a decision that was different from the original one, we tried to inform the Chamber as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mrs Leijten's question was why it took so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u86	No, that wasn't my question. My question was: why does the letter say that as of 1 January 2015 a system will function that will ensure that clients receive the care and support they need and can pay from the pgb, while on the same day the municipalities say that they have doubts about the feasibility, no, they feel that they are not going to make it and the SVB is concerned about the feasibility of not least the relapse scenarios, the emergency scenarios? Why didn't the Secretary of State inform the Chamber of the latter, what was exchanged at the board table? It wasn't a red alert, but a deep red alert, but we were told that there would be a system by 1 January that would not only provide them with care and support, but that they could also pay for it from the pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u87	This system regulates a number of cases with relapse scenarios, e.g. "no care agreement, pay anyway" and later "pay without grant decision." In your system you have to make sure that, despite the fact that a number of things are not settled, you can still make payment. Why? Because the priority was, is and remains for a long time: make sure that there can be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u88	To be perfectly honest, I'm not crazy Henkie. And I'm sorry for everyone named Henk. I understand how those fallback scenarios might have worked, but I asked the Secretary of State why on the same day that the municipalities say at the board table that they can't make it and the SVB is questioning the fallback scenarios, the emergency scenarios, he says to the Chamber: there will be a working system as of 1 January. Why did the Secretary of State fail to inform us that there were serious doubts about the municipalities and the enforcement service for the trekking right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u89	Because, of course, when designing back scenarios, you will also have a discussion about which ones are and are not feasible. Of course, that makes sense. If you decide to design relapse scenarios with each other for the purpose that can be paid on January 1st, then you also have discussions about how to turn that off. The fact that we were going to pay without a grant decision was quite a spicy decision. The municipalities didn't like that. And I understand that, because it means that decisions are made to pay, while the municipalities had not yet seen the documents. Municipalities doubted that that would work. That in itself was a legitimate concern, which we had to discuss with each other. We finally decided on the relapse scenarios and their introduction in the steering committee, because we thought that was a good way to ensure that payment was made as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u90	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u91	The Secretary of State says I have informed the Chamber well. That's what he does in Parliamentary questions, two months after that. That is different from sending a letter of formal notice and saying: I will inform you at your request. That's really something else. Then he does not inform the Chamber about the concerns that exist. And then he dares to say in the debate here today: we have jointly decided to introduce it as of 1 January 2015. No, if I had known what objections were being discussed at the board table on 22 November 2014, we would have had the debate here on postponing the introduction of the drawing right. As far as I was concerned, these emergency scenarios, these terrible doubts have not been reported. In fact, this Secretary of State has played nicely again. And yet today he cannot explain why on the day that both the municipalities and the SVB say that it is not actually feasible, the Chamber promises that there is a functioning system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u92	I have always tried to inform the Chamber of conscience with the state of knowledge at the time. Every time a different decision was taken than previously foreseen, the Chamber was informed. I am very sorry if Mrs Leijten thinks that this was insufficient or that she did not have sufficient opportunity to do so. However, we have always tried. Moreover, if we had had a debate with each other on whether or not the right to draw should be introduced, we would have had to put the question on the table whether it would be in the interests of the budget holders. This means that the budget holders should simply be paid on 1 January and that we should have made the same assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mrs Leijten, you have had four interruptions and I am giving Mrs Keijzer the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u94	At least the Secretary of State did not give the Chamber the opportunity to make that assessment. I'm gonna go back. On 15 October, the Secretary of State says in a general consultation: so far I have received signals that it could be technically regulated on 1 January 2015. In the Court's report, I read that on 15 October, the same day, the Deloitte study shows that it is still unclear what the system can or cannot handle. Such an Deloitte report does not come from the sky, of course, because it has been sent to the Ministry a week or two in advance. Did the Secretary of State fully inform the Chamber on 15 October by saying that he has received signals that it could be technically arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u95	I think this is the same thing. If Mrs Keijzer reads all these reports, she will see that every time the question was asked whether 1 January 2015 was feasible. That question has always been answered yes. The question of what the ICT system can do is another question. It is not just a question of whether the declarations can pass through the system, but also of whether the system meets all kinds of functionality requirements related to the needs of budget holders, municipalities and the Social Insurance Bank. Can all these wishes be incorporated into the system? That is why we have always asked what is or is not functionally feasible. We also had to make choices. So it's two different things. "Available on 1 January 2015" means: can you pay the account of the budget holders? The other is your wishes regarding the system. Those wishes are also very important, especially in the eyes of the budget holders, for example the question of whether budget holders are able to see the system properly. Is there sufficient functionality for the municipalities? Is there any good business information to extract? We have had to weigh that up, and that is why we asked Deloitte if the system can handle all this. The fact is that in the end we had to decide that not all functionality would be introduced, because we wanted to give priority to the payout.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u96	Many words, but no answer to the question. The question was: did the Secretary of State fully and correctly inform the Chamber? Again, the highest ICT official I quoted him before was extremely critical. On 22 July, a letter came in from the VNG in which she sounded the alarm. Furthermore, there was a letter from one of the senior officials of the Dutch Health Institute stating: boys, this goes completely wrong. None of this was shared with the Chamber, but the Secretary of State said at the time that there would be a system that would ensure that payments could be made. That is why my question again: has the Secretary of State fully and properly informed the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u97	I think so. Indeed, all reports showed that 1 January 2015 was feasible. Yeah, there were signs of risk. Yes, there were concerns about a number of components and, yes, decisions had to be made about the functionalities of the ICT system. In the debate on this subject, I have just indicated that it has been dealt with each time, but also that all these actions have not resulted in all the problems being avoided. But we've already talked about that. If you're working with each other to achieve something on January 1, 2015, you're trying to capture all the risks before that date and to take action, you have to ask yourself every time whether it's feasible or not. If the answer to that is "we think it's feasible," you continue on the same footing. Doesn't that make sense? If we weren't gonna do that, why are we putting all these risks in the picture? Then why are we taking all these measures? Surely we did that because we wanted to achieve something? We have tried to assess with each other whether our objective was still feasible, what the risks were and whether we should take additional measures. That's really what we've been doing all along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u98	One short question, Mr. Chairman. Why has the Secretary of State not shared with the Chamber all the signals I have listed on my table? If he had done so, he could have made that assessment with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u99	In all automation processes and also in other processes, it is very common to try to identify with the parties involved all the risks that you can encounter when you go from A to B. Surely you're not going to tell the Chamber separately about every risk that's been identified? I informed the Chamber in all conscience when we departed from a decision we had previously shared with the Chamber. When we found out that things might not be going well on January 1st, we made a relapse scenario and we reported it to the Chamber. When we decided that it was not just a relapse option, but that we were also going to introduce that relapse scenario, we also reported it to the Chamber. I am very sorry if the Chamber feels that it has not been sufficiently informed. We have tried to report it to the Chamber every time we had to take a decision that was different from the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u100	The Secretary of State is talking about the relapse scenarios. That wasn't explicitly shared with the Chamber, was it? It was not until later that we were able to draw up the progress reports on the basis of which this was reported. We also did not see until later what chaos was already emerging at that time. The Secretary of State says all the time: we did recognize the signals. He also once said that the signals might not have been sufficiently recognized. That's a little double. But if the Secretary of State had explicitly shared this with the Chamber, we would have responded in a different way than we have done when we did not finally see the progress reports until the end of April.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u101	If that were the case, I would have reacted differently. The introduction of these relapse scenarios was precisely aimed at being able to pay, despite the fact that, for example, the healthcare agreements were not yet in place. If we had thought at that time that it would not be possible at all to implement the decision, then I should have reported it to the Chamber, I would have found it myself and we should have done very different things. The fall-back scenarios that had been devised before 1 January and were about to enter into force were precisely designed to ensure that it would run on 1 January. If I had the idea at the time: we do, but it doesn't help, then I would have been crazy if I couldn't communicate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u102	That is still not an answer to the question as to why the Secretary of State kept this for himself or in his steering committee or whatever, and did not share it with the Chamber. Actually, the Secretary of State says, "I was solving it, and I didn't bother you with it." That's how I interpret it. But, of course, that's weird. If we had been much more involved in the process, we could have come here to share our judgement as to whether it was feasible. The Secretary of State says I thought it was feasible. However, the Chamber did not have the opportunity to have an opinion on this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u103	In what way do you inform the Chamber? Let me just say this: it was to the best of my conscience. When we started considering designing relapse scenarios, we reported it. When we came to the conclusion that they had to be introduced, we also informed the Chamber. So we made the assessment at that time, let me put it this way: through the introduction of the fallback scenarios, we were able to arrive at a normal payment to the budget holders, despite those care agreements. Budget holders would therefore have little problem with that. It may be called an error of assessment, but not because we thought those relapse scenarios didn't work. If they didn't work, we would of course have reported it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u104	The Secretary of State keeps coming back to "doing it with each other." I think that's a good thing if you actually take the Chamber in a whole process. But he also said that we cannot inform the Chamber separately every time. However, the Secretary of State already knew how sensitive this was. He knew all the questions that had already been asked, in the budget and in various debates. He already knew the room was on the finch rope here. Doesn't it make sense that you'd rather tell the Chamber once too much than too little? Now many MPs feel that they have not been properly included in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u105	You're right about that. And when things didn't go well afterwards and we encountered a number of problems, I also thought afterwards: if we had foreseen this better, we could have provided further information to the Chamber. But be assured: when we started designing and introducing these fallback scenarios, they were precisely aimed at preventing the payment issues, so that things would work out as agreed with the Chamber. The fact that it does not then work out as you think is very annoying and terrible, but that is no reason to decide that you are not going to give sufficient information to the Chamber. In retrospect, you can say that we might not have had this debate if I had more generously informed the Chamber. You could, but you only know that afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u106	I thought Mrs Dijkstra was quite right to say that the Secretary of State was mainly concerned with considering what measures to take, but did not seem to think that he should include the Chamber. In the meantime, as Mrs. Agema just said, his stop words are "together." That gives the impression as if he implicitly says: you should have known all about it. This leads to even more irritation among several Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u107	That is by no means the intention. I said that we decided to embed these pgbs in those laws, but Mrs Agema did not agree to some of those laws. When I said that we decided to introduce the right of trekking, I meant that we also decided in this Chamber, but I did not want to give the impression that we have taken all decisions 'together'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u108	Ho ho ho, that's not what I meant! I did not mean that a number of parties voted in favour and a number of parties opposed. No, the Secretary of State gave the impression that we were "together" in an equal information position and therefore "together" decided to introduce the drawing right. There has been a great deal of reaction to this in the last hour and a half. When I hear the Secretary of State say that he is not going to inform the Chamber about every piece and about every risk, I get the impression that he is creating for himself a position in which he sends nasty reports but not to the Chamber and does send a report that supports his will to the Chamber. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State here: no, it was not "together," because I was ultimately responsible, I did this and that, and I did not fully inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u109	I have always tried to say that I have done that to the best of my conscience, but indeed, the Chamber controls the government. The government sometimes has to make a number of decisions on the basis of the information it has. It must actively inform the Chamber about this, but the government is responsible for the decisions it makes. The chamber can respond to that, and the room can check that, that's right. This does not mean that the information position is always right, but that the Chamber should always have the opportunity to control policy and to form an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u110	I find that too slippery, because this means that the information position is not always the same. You can't do that, can you? I would like to see a Secretary of State here today who says that this is no longer happening; you are no longer lagging behind and you are given an equal information position. There has even been a debate here about the fact that documents are constantly not coming to the Chamber! There are now 10,000 people. It's 10,000 others each time who simply have income problems because of government debt. They belong at home to a ruler saying: I cannot always give the Chamber an equal information position. The Secretary of State must now say: yes, you will always have an equal information position and I will no longer consider which report does go to the Chamber and which report does not. I want the promise that this won't happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u111	You're right about that. We have had debates on this before. There's no decision that anything goes to the Chamber or not. You have to make an assessment every time of the most active way to inform the Chamber. Every time there was a different intention than was previously agreed with the Chamber, we tried to do so as best we could. If you think afterwards that it was not good enough or that it could have been better, we will learn from it. We have a duty to inform the Chamber as actively as possible, to be transparent about it, to inform the Chamber afterwards if things have not gone well and in advance if we do it differently from what was agreed with the Chamber. That's what we have with each other... Sorry. That's what I've been trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u112	Has the late summer 2014 started developing relapse scenarios?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u113	You asked me earlier, at the beginning of the debate, to intervene if too often the same things are being discussed. This has really been dealt with very extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u114	In his last reply, I could not respond to that, because so often we cannot interrupt, the Secretary of State said that he had informed the Chamber at the time he was going to develop it. In a response from the Ministry to the critical report of the General Court, it says: in the late summer, the development of relapse scenarios started. When did he inform the Chamber about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u115	In late summer, when considering all risks in the steering group, it was said that, given all risks, it would be good to develop relapse scenarios. That wasn't done then, not because we thought it would go wrong, but more because we thought: if you put all the risks in the picture, you'll always have to have relapse scenarios. That's a very normal, regular procedure. When the continuity plan was completed on 21 November and we wanted to get those things out of the closet, the Chamber was informed. On 22 December it was said that they were developed and we are going to apply them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u116	All right, in late summer they were developed and on November 21st they were tapped on the board table that they would be introduced. You then informed the Chamber on 24 November by means of answers to parliamentary questions. Did you send all the relapse scenarios that were developed to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u117	There was only one, namely the care agreement, which means that non-approval will also be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u118	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mrs Keijzer's answer to parliamentary questions states that relapse scenarios have been drawn up. Which ones are, it doesn't say. However, the conclusion is that as of 1 January 2015, a system will enter into force that will allow the payment of pgbs to run smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u120	Yes, chairman, that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u121	I don't think that's active information. Why didn't the Secretary of State simply say, for example, when we asked for it in September, in October, in the budget procedure or even in December, that there are different relapse scenarios that look like this and have been activated? Maybe they're not feasible, the SVB has a bit of a doubt about that. Why didn't the Secretary of State just share this with the Chamber openly and honestly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u122	Because there was no reason to assume that it was information that would be new or different. In the normal process of mapping risks you hear that you are also thinking of relapse scenarios, where you do hope you don't have to pull them out of the closet. That is the normal course of action. If you think you're gonna have to pull them out of the closet, you're gonna talk about that. I would also point out that on 11 December we had a general discussion on drawing rights. You may want to come back to that. Anyway, relapse scenarios are part of the normal picture of all the risks you may encounter. You're hoping you don't have to pull them out of the closet. When we found out that this might be necessary, we informed the Chamber about this through the answer of the parliamentary questions. The Court has also been informed about the actual introduction. I am sorry that you think that this has not been sufficiently active, but I have informed the Chamber in all conscience. Of course, you have to develop those things, even if they're not necessary. If you're considering them, you have to tell them, and if you're going to apply them, you have to tell them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mrs Leijten now has a fourth question for the second time. This is the last time I'll give her four questions in one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u124	I just want to say that the Secretary of State is doing it again. He says that we have had a general consultation on drawing rights here, but this subject was discussed side by side in that general consultation. I have the Secretary of State's answer here. It's not about relapse scenarios. On December 11th, the Secretary of State tells the Chamber it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u125	No question has been asked. The Secretary of State will continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u126	The next item is the state of play. During the hearing last week, on the one hand, the Chamber was told that the system of declarations, the payment machine, is running, while on the other hand there are still signs that there are problems with budget holders. Perhaps that is also an adequate description of reality. Following an earlier debate on 26 March, the Dijkstra motion was adopted. The main thrust of the debate was that the top priority had to be placed in payment, because that is the most important thing. The purpose of the motion was to resolve any acute problems as quickly as possible. I reported to the Chamber on April 28th how I intended to proceed with the motion. That's why I sent the Chamber the march route. As discussed in the last debate at the end of April, the route of march fills in the motion by means of a number of concrete results agreements with the SVB. I said that this route is a very important intermediate step on the road to permanent recovery. I would like to say very clearly that I pointed out in the letter of 28 April that not all the problems have been solved, such as getting the emergency payments, the current portal, the transport costs and the freely available amount. In my letter of 18 May, I explained what we were doing, what we were doing and what we were trying to do with the route: the payout regime is functioning on a regular basis, there are no more old stocks, monthly wagers are paid, urgent and distressing situations are paid within one to three days, accessibility is optimised, signals from budget holders should be better addressed and all appointments monitored. What happened now? Of the declarations submitted after April, between 94% and 95% were paid within 10 days. 2% of payments are made within 11 to 15 days and 3% after 15 days. Fixed monthly wagers are paid, rapid response is paid within one to three days, so to speak we sit around the table every day with Per Balance to match any differences between Per Balance and Social Insurance Bank figures. The accessibility has also been greatly improved and the signals from budget holders are better addressed. I informed the Chamber on 18 May of the progress of these points. So I've informed the Audit Service that these are the appointments I'd like to monitor with the Chamber. The Audit Service has decided how to investigate this. The Chamber has seen those reports, too. The speed of payment is very important. The basis of the payment process must be in order. That was a very important mark in order to determine whether the payment process is now in order. It is said here, and I shall come on the other side later, that the Audit Service has only measured what has been paid. It is very important and necessary information that you know that payments are being made and that you know whether they are being made in good time. If I write that 94% to 95% of what has been paid, there is within that period of five to ten days, then that's just right. However, this does not mean that all the problems have been solved. I can imagine, by the way, that someone who hasn't received any money or still has all kinds of problems with his declarations thinks: what am I doing on my bike; there it is said that 94%, 95% is paid on time, but that is not the case with me. That's right. It is very important that the payment process is in order, that 94%, 95% has been paid within five to ten days, that part has been paid within fourteen days and that the rest has been paid later. That is an important point, but that does not mean that all the problems will be solved. In part, it will continue to occur that there will sometimes be a declaration that you cannot pay within five to ten days and that the budget holder or the budget holder with the municipality, or the healthcare office with the municipality will have to arrange a number of things. It will also happen in the future that a declaration can sometimes not be paid because the budget is up, or because the indication is no longer there, or because the declaration is not in line with the rate. This should only be avoided in the case of things that are not paid directly, but as long as there are still people whose declaration has not been paid, when the feeling is that it could have been paid, we have of course not solved the problem at all. Getting the payment process in order is therefore a very important building block. I would point out that in measuring whether the payment process is in order, Mr Van Dijk was right to point out that not only has the correct declarations been included but also the declarations that were originally incorrect and that have been made correctly by the Social Insurance Bank and municipalities in consultation with the budget holders have been paid. I think that's the positive signal from those readings. It is therefore not only the completely correct declarations but also the declarations that were originally incorrect and made in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u127	It was in that motion that we got a picture of the whole, that we would have a total overview. A sample has been taken which, as the SVB Audit Service itself indicated, has been carried out very limited. They literally said in the technical briefing to a question from me: the information we really needed to do that research is not there, so we limited ourselves to the information that was there, and on that basis we did the sample. And, they said, that was a properly performed sample. I'm sure you do. After that, however, I asked, and I now ask the Secretary of State: that sample may be correct, but was the information that was worked on correct? There was no judgment on that. I understand that, too, from that position. I would like to hear an opinion from the Secretary of State on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u128	I would like to mention a few points. Of course, the Audit Service didn't just look at the payment rate. We've been looking at what was paid and what claims are included. This showed that 95% of both the correct and the originally incorrect declarations were within that five or ten-day period. In addition, it has been found that the working stock of declarations, in which everything is contained, has fallen very sharply and that it can be eliminated within a very reasonable period of time in normal declaration processing. So did the Social Insurance Bank. The rapid response has also been looked at. Luckily, that's pretty good. Every day it is examined whether there are any differences between the figures coming into Per Balance and entering the Social Insurance Bank. Those rush payments are pretty good. So that gives an idea of how the process is coming to order. The process of payment of correct declarations is going very well. The process of payment of incorrect declarations that have been made correctly is also going very well. The supply's dropping. The number of emergency payments is falling. Those are positive signals. It is true that there can still be declarations of what is with it and for which there is no immediate solution. Of course, that requires a proactive attitude. That is also why we have said to the Social Insurance Bank: whether there are signals on Twitter, in letters or from the Chamber, Per Balance or the interbranch organisation of small carers, track them down and make sure that you also solve those problems. Many of the declarations that have not yet been paid have been received with urgent payments. The Chamber has also seen the number of emergency payments. That number is greater than the number of declarations in the working stock. So there are a lot of payments, but not through the system, and that has to be resolved. So it requires two things. Firstly, a very proactive attitude. If it happens, the Social Insurance Bank should call, see what's going on and if an emergency payment has been made, see if that can be restored in the system. Secondly, if there is any fuss, try to find out which claims cannot yet be paid and whose treatment is too long. We need to get a look at that, too. The problem we have with each other is that we cannot say automatically: a declaration has arrived, it gets a number and we can follow in the process whether or not it has been paid. It's not in the system. That is why we need to work with these samples. That sucks. That's the way it is. That's why we follow it that way. I also said to the Social Insurance Bank: it is very good to look at those payments, it is very good to see that the working stock is falling, it is very good to see that the rush payments are fortunately a little down, but I also want to know which declarations the treatment is still taking too long, so that we can also track down the people concerned and take action on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u129	We've been talking for months about that happening, that the SVB didn't communicate proactively if there was something wrong with declarations and that we didn't see what would happen if a declaration didn't make sense, because it would come into the working stock and then what would happen to it? We still do not know, to this day, or perhaps not some part of the declarations just remain on the big pile because they do not come out. In the motion, however, I was concerned that it would be okay on 15 May. That there are still exceptions, I understand. That's what I said to the Secretary of State when I filed the motion. The Secretary of State now says: on 15 May we found that it is getting going well. However, that is different from the fact that it is in progress at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr President, forgive me if I may address Mrs Dijkstra directly. We spoke at the time in the debate about how we would interpret that motion. I sent you a letter about this with a march route: how are we going to do this now? It said that we were going to measure the payment rate on the basis of the claims that were paid. At least that's how we measured it. I wrote that. Now you say yes, but I would have liked to know more. Yes, I do, but we tried it as agreed: you tabled a motion, I said how I thought I would implement it, and then I asked the Audit Service if they could measure it. That's what a report has come up on. I have never wanted and can say that today, and I will not, that all the problems have been solved with the proper regulation of the payment rate. In fact, if anyone has a problem with a declaration, I can also imagine him getting angry about it. You can say that the payment speed is good, but for someone who hasn't been paid, that doesn't apply. That means we still have a few things to do. I can't deliver what can't be delivered. Mr Van der Staaij already talked about looking for the folder with lost pieces. When a declaration comes in, we don't know at the time whether it's correct or how long it takes to make it right. You can't see that. You can see how the work stock is developing. I want an even more breakdown of that work supply. What comes in and what can we afford? What comes in and can we still pay with a little bit of action? What are apparently difficult declarations that require even greater effort? Until then, at the request of Mrs Voortman, I will continue the rapid response. People can say that too little is happening and that an urgent payment must be made. So I will keep that option open until I do now use the word 'we', and we decide that this is no longer necessary, because these two things have come together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u131	I will come back to that because the Secretary of State directly appeals to me on that motion and that route. In that marchway I was going to take it out of my head for a while..... that we are going to look at those affordable declarations as of April 1st. That was the assignment. Reading that, I assumed that January, February and March would be all right and that would be included. I assumed that that would be true and not that anything else would not be in order. So that image just doesn't add up. We're just getting a picture of those last few weeks. We don't have a complete overview of what's going on. The Secretary of State also states that you cannot see in the system when a declaration is paid, not paid or rejected or whatever. It's just not traceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u132	The Audit Service has also looked at a few other things, for example the composition of the stock. The Social Insurance Bank did not come across any declarations of January, February and March that were in that stock for a very long time. However, you cannot guarantee that if you cannot look into the system. I note that there have been a lot of emergency payments. So they may have been paid, but not through the system. The Audit Service also checked if there are any other things in the mailroom that we can't see. They have found that this is not the case. It is true that this work stock consists of things that entered yesterday, things that are in the payment system and things that still have to be sorted out. I would have preferred the exact breakdown of that at the push of a button. I asked the Social Insurance Bank to give me that breakdown. However, we cannot say that there has not been a huge improvement. The payment rate has improved, the working stock has fallen, the rapid response is in order, there are no large stocks anymore and it is also clear that there are no more mail bags or declarations waiting for anyone to know. That gives the impression that it has improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u133	Through the SVB Audit Service, we have received information on the affordable declarations, but of course there is most interest, at least in the Christian Union, in the non-affordable declarations. That's where the big problems are. Has the Secretary of State already ordered the SVB or anyone else in a position to do so, to investigate where those people are and what is the problem that made declarations unaffordable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u134	The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u135	I would very much like to know when that happened. In the last letter from the Secretary of State, that is the one of 18 May, on how the declarations are going, I only read about that group of 95% where everything seems to be okay. At 5%, it's not okay. That's a lot, but I don't read anything about that group's unaffordable declarations. Can the Secretary of State imagine that, if it is not mentioned in the letter, it simply does not seem right to me and certainly not to all those budget holders in the country who do not recognize themselves in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u136	I can imagine. At the same time, I can only measure what is to be measured. You can also imagine that when a declaration comes in, you cannot immediately see whether it is correct or not. What I note is that the process surrounding the correct and incorrect declarations that can still be made is going pretty well. It's not like 95% is paid and the other one isn't. It wouldn't be possible at all. Of the declarations, a large proportion, 95%, is paid on time, so between five and ten days, part is paid within 14 days and part of it takes longer. It's in both of our interests to know how much longer that is. So what exactly are we talking about and what actions are being taken to do something about it? I would point out that there are signs that this problem is also coming under control. Let me put it carefully. The work stash, where everything's in, is dropping. The call for rapid response is also falling. Many emergency payments have also been made. By the size of this you can see that a lot has been paid, but not in the regular way. That must be done, of course, and it will be done in the recovery phase. But it's true that we can't just get out of the system how much has been paid, how much hasn't been paid and what the rate of rotation of the work stock is. I asked the Social Insurance Bank if it was possible to think up and figure out how to get a look at the difficult declarations, the payment of which apparently takes longer. I would like to remind the Chamber that it will and will continue to be so, now and in the future, that some declarations cannot be paid. Before we draw that conclusion, we need to find the stock that we can and people are wrongly waiting for. Those people have no use for stories that the payment process is in order. Those people won't be able to use it until their declaration is paid. That is what all the actions need to be focused on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u137	The question that remains open is when you asked the Social Insurance Bank to look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u138	As I have already replied to Parliamentary questions, we cannot get this out of the system. We've also asked before if there's any insight into that. That vision wasn't there. We have now had to work with the declarations that are there. I think I asked you again last week whether you could not come up with something to get a better view of the work stock. We are working very hard on this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u139	If the Secretary of State has no idea of the state of affairs of unpaid claims, how can he conclude that the payment regime is in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u140	Because the payment regime consists of a number of steps. The House will agree with me on this point, as has also been discussed on the route that, when it comes to whether declarations are paid on time, these are, in the first instance, the correct declarations, because they have to be paid on time. Of declarations that, for whatever reason, are not correct, it is important to know why they are not correct. Is there anything in the system? Are there any mistakes made at the Social Insurance Bank? Are there all kinds of things in the chain? Of course, that is what needs to be done to ensure that they are removed. We now have an image of how things are going. Correct and incorrect declarations are paid fairly on time: those 95%, 98% and thereafter. The work supply's dropping, the rapid response's dropping, and there's no stuff on the desks. We now have the image that it's coming to order. However, I would like to have an even more specific picture. I would also like to know about the things that take longer and take too long, so that we can do something about it in a very targeted way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u141	The Secretary of State says it's getting sorted out. He therefore agrees with us that it is not yet in order, whereas that was precisely the explicit statement in the Dijkstra motion. My follow-up question is: how many of these incorrect declarations are there wrong due to errors in the system or due to the Social Insurance Bank? They are people who have done everything right, but whose declaration has ended up on the pile of 'not correct'. How many declarations is that about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u142	We don't know that. But there are many reasons for this. It may be that a declaration is correct in itself, but that there is a wrong rate on it. There may have been a mistake at the Social Insurance Bank. There may be no care agreement. There may be another reason. There may be many reasons why a declaration, which in itself is well filled in, cannot be paid because there is something wrong with it. My point is that if the budget holder can't do anything about it at all, then when the weather comes, it has to be made right. The instruction is therefore to get in touch, if something like that is going on, and to find the stock in which it is still playing, so that one can do the same. If someone reports to the rapid response team, for example, and says "I have to be paid now because otherwise things will go wrong," that also offers the opportunity to find out what's going on within the system and how things can be made right so that it can be put right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u143	But we do not know how many people it is who have done everything right but have ended up in the pile 'not correct'. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State says that the regular payment regime is now getting good. I think that is a very rosy presentation of the way things are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u144	I'd like to address that question, too. You must really assume from me that I've tried to avoid that every time. I refer to what I said in the report I sent to the Chamber. I said that the measures taken in relation to the payment process were effective. That is indeed good, because we see that the speed of payment is coming in order, that the stocks are falling, that the rapid response is going well, that there are no things left on the desks and that the accessibility has improved. Those are positive signals. However, you have not heard me say that everything is in order. I have also been really annoyed by the reports that when I write a letter and say "this is going well" it is said "well, everything is in order." I didn't say that and I didn't want to say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u145	Then the Secretary of State must admit that he did not implement the Dijkstra motion, because it is about the need for regular payments to be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u146	If a declaration that is not good for what reason has not been paid, are we going to tell each other that it must have been paid? Then I want to find out why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u147	You don't even know how many there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u148	We've got eyes on that. The working stock is falling, as is the number of urgent requests. We are getting more and more insight into how things are going in the future. Then I have no final conclusion, but I have indicated in my letter that it is in itself signs of the payment process. The speed is now good and we must ensure that, in the event that declarations cannot be paid for any reason, this is properly sorted out. However, it cannot be your intention that when a declaration cannot be paid because something is wrong, we say: it is only in order if it is paid. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u149	Besides the system information on the SVB side, it is good to hear from the practice, for example through Per Balance, which is still running into it. Then I notice that you hear quite often of "in the month of March things went well but in April things went wrong again," so that it has not been consistently and structurally fixed yet. It is especially annoying for people when errors repeat themselves or that data cannot yet be put in order via My PCI and the like. Does the Secretary of State recognise this image and, if so, what time limit will it take to get it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u150	Very much so. At the moment when there is a declaration that what is with it and you make it affordable by means of an emergency payment, people are paid and they have received their money, but if they run into the same problem the next month and they don't get the money automatically again, you have to go back to the means of the emergency payment. Well, that's just not good then. It may mean, for example, that the discussion with the relevant municipality about the rate has not yet been completed or that a care agreement has not yet been agreed. Sometimes it takes time. Each time there is a double report to the rapid response team, an extra look at what is going on and one must actively go for it, so that it gets into the system. It is of course very annoying for people that they are paid, but that they have to experience again a month later that it is still not right. There must therefore also be a very proactive attitude on the part of those who receive such a report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u151	I have also heard the example of a sick message which makes things in the system go wrong as far as the boxes and the check marks are concerned. Apparently, therefore, the system has not yet been sufficiently adapted to certain situations. To what extent can this be adapted in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u152	As far as possible, we will do so, but you will also understand that there is a need to consider what needs to be changed in the system. Paying's still a priority. Then we have to consider how people can look at My PCI more easily. I would also like to mention the issue of company information. We want to be able to look at the declarations at the press of a button. Those are all conflicting things of what you can or can't do. We do want to deal with these matters as quickly as possible, but without compromising the priority of payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u153	All the positive noises that the Secretary of State is now making are, of course, about the declarations that have been said at some point 'we can pay them'. This is also stated in the audit: the SVB has no insight into the lead time of declarations, from receipt to payment. My colleague Dik has just spoken about this. I have the following question to the Secretary of State. Do I understand correctly that if the Chamber adopts a simple motion here, which states quite clearly that the payment regime should be regular on 15 May, the Secretary of State thinks that he can sew the Chamber into the suit by sending a march route to the Chamber in which he says: okay, I'll explain it so that I'm going to look at everything that came in on or after 1 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u154	For the record, a motion has been tabled stating that regular payments must be made on a regular basis by 15 May at the latest. I'm sending you a letter stating that there's a motion and how I think I want to implement it. Then I'll ask the Audit Service to measure that. It is clear, indeed at the end of May, that these are the results of the speed of payment. I myself note that not all problems have been solved. I myself write what we can and can't measure. I myself write to what other information there is, about the rapid response and about the stocks and the development of the working stock. Then I shall not sew the Chamber into a suit, then I shall try to indicate as well as possible how I intend to measure and how I intend to do so in such a way that everyone can have a look at what I have done. And another point that I noticed in the contributions. Asked how the stand is, as close as possible to the date of 15 May. That's what we agreed on. However, I have also sent all other measurements to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u155	It's a lot of words. The Secretary of State actually says: yes, it was right; it was a general motion and I explained it by looking at everything that came in after 1 January. That's option B in the march. So let's just... "We," Mr. President, the Secretary of State is "we." Then let's establish that with each other. But if the Secretary of State simply looks at the text of the motion, namely "the payment regime for monthly workers and declarants is on a regular basis," isn't it much more honest to say what's on page 12, namely that 87% of those declarations were resolved within ten days? If you're honest about that, can't you put on the VWS website that all the promised results have been achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u156	It's a bit of a rerun of moves. A motion has been tabled and we have talked about how we are going to implement it. I said I'd send a letter about the march. I sent it to you. Then I sent you the measurement of the results of the Audit Service, and I presented the results. I said that the motion had an effect, that the measures taken had an effect on the payment process. Isn't that what I can do? You can say that you would like it different or want other things... I agree that we should have a better view of the work stock of difficult declarations. But we can't say that the regular process is in order if declarations that don't meet, wouldn't they be paid? Then we really need to find out if they can be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u157	Mr President, I am trying to keep my questions very brief, but I cannot get an answer. I asked the Secretary of State to think with us, with "we." The motion is not only about the declarations after 1 January, but it is also about the people who are still waiting for their money for January, February and March. So we're looking at all the declarations. Then what the Audit Service writes on page 12 under the first table is correct, namely that 87% has been paid within ten days and not 95%? You're talking about 20,000 people, apart from all the people who don't fall into the affordable declaration category.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u158	For the sake of purity, we are talking here about the payment rate and not about whether or not to pay. Anyway, you know that, too. If the motion now asks to ensure that the final 15 May is the payment process in such a way that it can be paid in a regular way, what figure would you have to use to assess whether the end of May is a bit in order? Do you have to take the average overall, or do you have to ask what happened on May 15th? That was the question, wasn't it? By the way...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u159	I'd like to answer that question, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u160	The Secretary of State would like to finish his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u161	By the way, now I'm pretending to have just taken that number. I heard that in Nieuwsuur too, but we've presented all the numbers. Anyone can just see them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u162	Mrs Keijzer, you have a question that you would like to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u163	Yes, Chairman, yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u164	You may answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u165	Yeah, I'll answer the question. On page 12 of the Audit Service report, it says that on average 87% have been paid out. That is the average number of declarations paid within 10 days, with extremes from 79% to 90%. It would be so good if the Secretary of State would give a straight answer, because he just doesn't. I'm so sorry about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u166	Mr. Chairman. May I, for my part, point out that I also find something unfortunate? The motion asks for ultimum 15 May to see the state of play of the payment speed. I will then send all the figures to the Chamber and state what the figure was on 15 May. Is that a wrong way of presenting things? I am sorry if the Chamber finds this, but I mentioned that number as a performance that had to be delivered on 15 May. I also showed the Chamber all the other figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u167	Maybe it's okay to go back to the operative part of the motion. That is to say: calls on the Government to ensure that the payout regime for both the so-called monthly labourers and the healthcare providers who are paid on a declaration basis operates on a regular basis by 15 May 2015. The CDA asked about the percentage. The Secretary of State replied that the week of 15 May was 95%. I think that is a relevant number, because we want to know the state of play by 15 May. Is there still a system that operates on a regular basis and if so, can he then answer the question about the percentage again? Only then will we know if we're in control.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u168	I didn't quite hear the last part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u169	The situation as of 15 May is clear to me. I would also very much like to know what the situation is at the moment. I believe that the debate is about whether the system is functioning and whether we are in order. It's nice to look back at the months until May 15th, it's nice to know what it was like on May 15th, but I also like to know what it's like on June 4th.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u170	We do not yet have a report from the Audit Service that validates the figures, but we are informed of the samples every time. The samples show that the percentage is stable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u171	In the previous block it became clear that we are not dealing with each other, but that the Secretary of State introduced a little stubbornly a new payment system. I call it stubborn because we were put at a disadvantage in our knowledge of the risks. The new payment system was intended to operate on a regular basis on 1 January. That wasn't the case, because 50% of 320,000 payments went into trouble. What should have functioned on a regular basis on January 1, went massively wrong. Not only did the Secretary of State fail because he did not involve us in the risks, it also turned out on 1 January that the system was insanely malfunctioning. That too is failure. The Court then asked for a system to operate on a regular basis by 15 May at the latest. Can the Secretary of State give us an idea of how the system should have functioned on a regular basis, how it works now and how he thinks it will work in the future? There are a lot of people watching that don't know how the system works at all. How was it supposed to function, how does it function now, how will it function in the future and when will it happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u172	That's three questions at once. Mrs. Agema is asking for an image. If a declaration is made correctly, so if the budget holder is known and the care agreement is approved, it must go smoothly through the system and the money must be paid within five to ten days. If there is something wrong with the declaration, there must be a very proactive attitude to solve the problem in consultation with the budget holder. After that, the declaration must be processed on the same one. I have reported to you that we have reached this stage and that if there are declarations that cannot be paid for any reason, either because of the budget or because there is no indication, there is contact with the person who has submitted them, so that they know why they have not been paid and can take action if necessary. But there will also be declarations that cannot be paid because the budget is up, because the price is wrong or because there is no permission from the municipality. That's the way it should be. At present, some 641,000 declarations have been received by the Social Insurance Bank and the working stock is about 18,000 declarations. The Social Insurance Bank has pointed out that if that work stock could be fully paid, it could do so within a few days. I said: yes, but you can't pay for everything, some things last longer, and so you'll have to look at why that is and what you can do about it, so that the budget holder is also informed about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u173	This isn't the whole answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u174	What part of the answer do you think is missing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u175	I asked: how would the system work according to purpose, how will it work now, how will it work and when will it be achieved? That was my first question, so I'd like to keep my powder dry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u176	I get that. I asked you to rephrase it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u177	The intention of how it would work is that a declaration that is submitted and correct should be paid within five to ten days and that if that is not correct, the budget holder should be informed so that the declaration may be made correctly, and that the budget holder should also be informed if the declaration cannot be paid. The state of affairs now, as I have just said, is that 95% of the declarations that are correct are paid within that period, that the declarations that are incorrect are still made correctly and that there are declarations that are difficult and that cannot be paid for any reason. The latter are now being paid as a matter of urgency, which must be made in the system. My ideal picture is that we eventually no longer need these emergency payments because everything can be paid through the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u178	Aha! So in the ideal image that system is no longer needed, because are the emergency payments included in the regular system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u179	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u180	So there's no regular base now. So Mrs Dijkstra's motion has not been carried out. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u181	We have to be careful that not everyone has their own definition of "regular."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u182	But the Secretary of State just said...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u183	It's important to people that they get paid. That's the priority. That means that if a declaration can't be paid for any reason, I think it's important to arrange for people to be paid. Preferably through the system, but if an emergency payment is needed to prevent people from getting into trouble, we have to do so. Again, we have to look through the budget holder's eyes every time. If that payment process is going well, so as originally intended, we would no longer need emergency payments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u184	So there's no regular system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u185	By the way, if you ask me now for an assessment: I think it is wise to always have an opportunity to make urgent payments, because in the case of large numbers of declarations, where there are changes every month and where there will always be questions about what is going on, you will always have to have the opportunity to say: it has not yet been selected, yet pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u186	So I conclude that there is no regular system, but that there is an emergency system running. The Secretary of State does not answer the question when the regular manner is standard. Then we now have a system that is hugely expensive and extremely labour intensive. I really want to know from the Secretary of State, if he has not already reached 15 May and not before 1 January, when the system is running on a regular basis, something that the entire Chamber, Chamberwide, already demanded from him in the Dijkstra motion, which was not implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u187	We've had a long discussion about all kinds of deadlines. We've said every time that's gonna cause new problems. My priority is to be able to pay budget holders. We now see that the payment process runs if it is a correct declaration, that there are many incorrect declarations that run that sometimes it is necessary to have an emergency payment. I want to maintain that, too. Step by step, we need to do so, first by getting the regular payments in order as much as possible, then by ensuring that they are restored and then that they are improved. Not all problems have been solved at once. I didn't say that either, and I wouldn't say that. Step by step, we will have to ensure that this process goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u188	Mr President, I asked for a date. By when is that emergency system no longer in force and is the system operating on a regular basis, as was planned on 1 January? I asked for a date, because these are emergency situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u189	Emergency situations? I'm not going to give you a date. The Chamber has adopted a motion that the emergency scenario does not go off until we come to the conclusion that it is no longer necessary. That means I'll have to prove to the Chamber why it's no longer necessary. However, I would like to make the point that in my opinion there should always be a provision for making emergency payments possible in any situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u190	It's very impressive when you hear all those numbers the Social Insurance Bank has to deal with. We have to realise that there are caregivers behind it, who make money by providing care. The Secretary of State has samples done according to what's going well and we don't really know what's not going well. That's one of the things the Chamber has a problem with. I can't quite post all those rosy messages from the State Secretary. On 24 February he said that the last problems were solved, on 18 May he said that most of the payout problems had been solved and now he says that in the last week it was about 95%. That's not how it's described, but let's just leave it there. So we know what is going well and we are doing research into what is going well, but we do not know what is not going well. I have a question about that. For example, there are reasons why a declaration would not be affordable. It would always be a problem with the submission by the budget holder: sent in too late, misfilled and you name it. Is that right? Is this high number of 18,000 declarations that are now in the so-called work stocks and where something goes wrong because something goes wrong with the budget holder?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u191	No, that could be anything. There may have been a human error made by the Social Insurance Bank, there may be discussion with the municipality about the rate, it may be that the indication ends, that there is another budget holder or that there is discussion about the period to be paid. There may be all kinds of causes that do not have to deal only with the budget holder. The budget holder may also think that he has submitted a correct declaration, while there is still discussion with the municipality about, for example, the rate. Moreover, the 18,000 are not all difficult cases. It is the stock that mutates daily: there are declarations and declarations go off. That's part of what you're doing longer because you have to figure out what's going on. Those are the two answers to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u192	I am pleased that this answer has been given, because we also received a number of annexes in the letter of 18 May, including the letter from the chain directors. It talked about people who "would have been hanged wrongly." That sounds very ludicrous, but it means that they would have been hung under the wrong law. I checked how many people that involved. That was 75,000 healthcare agreements. That's a third with a wrong legal regime that couldn't pay out. Are those 18,000 actually the pile where something went wrong? Of course, it could go wrong, but if it went wrong with a third party and you know the problems the Social Insurance Bank has, I wonder whether all these care agreements have now been restored or whether they are not on a different pile than the regular work stock. I do not want us to be surprised in a week or two, three or four that it turns out to be a very high pile that cannot yet be dealt with regularly, because there are administrative errors with care agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u193	Health care agreements, which have been adopted on their own initiative, are now rapidly being processed by the municipalities into approved health care agreements. I believe that there were 60 000 care agreements first, which had been established on their own initiative. That number has already been reduced to half. It's been two months, so that process is moving fast. At the moment when a payment is not going well, it can be seen why it is not going well. If that is only because one is under the wrong law, it can of course be restored. Where it was unclear, for example because the healthcare agreement was not there, it has been said: in some cases we will have it on both the laws, so that we will not be able to pay. But you are right: that must be restored as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u194	The number of 75,000 health care contracts is one third of the number of health care contracts that have been approved. That they did not fall under the right legal regime was something we had to get over by asking for. I would ask the Secretary of State to keep us regularly informed of cases that fall under the wrong regime due to errors or the wrong exchange of information, so that we do not have to ask for them, but are simply informed fairly about the number of people who are processed administratively wrongly within the Social Insurance Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u195	I'll let you know where I can go. I believe that we agreed last time that I would keep the Chamber regularly informed of the progress made in introducing the right of draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u196	In his letter of 18 May, the Secretary of State has chosen not to respond to the declarations that have not been made. Last week this was the subject of the hearing. If one thing has become clear to me, it is that no one can see exactly where that group is and how large its size is. There have now been a few exchanges that this group of people would be somewhere in the working stock, but the Secretary of State also knows that this is not the case; not all of them at least. They're stuck somewhere in the system. Last week, the Secretary of State commissioned the SVB to investigate this matter. If we do not know exactly how big the group is, where the group is and what the problems are, how are we going to solve this together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u197	All the declarations are in the working stock. Some can be paid quickly because they are correct. Some can be paid a little later because they are made correct. Some declarations seem to require more time. You and I share the view that we need to get a look at that last category as soon as possible, to ensure that we also know whether that leads to declarations that we can never pay, because they are not good, and to declarations that require action somewhere in the chain, from the municipality, the healthcare office or the budget holder, to make up for it. That calls for a proactive attitude. Until then, we will make the emergency payments to ensure that people can make use of them if necessary. In addition, research must be carried out as soon as possible to see whether we can see exactly which group we are dealing with in the working stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u198	I am not entirely reassured by this answer. We have good contact with Per Balance. There too, we have no idea of the size of the group and where it is. That group isn't just in the work stash. It's wider. There really is a group of people who are trying to file their declarations, but who, for all kinds of reasons, aren't getting anywhere in the system and aren't visible. We don't know if it's hundreds of people or thousands. How are we gonna meet up with these people and make sure they're just paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u199	We do this in a number of ways. If you file a declaration that cannot be paid for any reason, it will be in the working stock. We note from the rapid response that this is being called upon. Together with Per Recht we will see what is going on and how we can pay as soon as possible. I have already said: until the last problems are resolved, we must pursue a very active search policy. From letters, e-mails, the media and signals, including from the Chamber, we have to consider every time what is going on and whether we can solve it. How can we make sure it doesn't happen anymore? I will not rest on our side until that kind of problem is all a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u200	I'd like to go back to the emergency payments. Of course, we all want as much as possible to be paid on a regular basis and that aid workers simply get the money they are entitled to. One indicator of this is, of course, the trend in the number of emergency payments. We want to see how the payout regime is going from 15 May. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State if he has any idea how the emergency payments are going. This also says something about answering the question of whether the regular process is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u201	I do not have the exact figures ready, but the signals are that there is a very sharp fall in the number of emergency payments. This may indicate that regular stocks and emergency payments are approaching each other. I will see if I can give the figures in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u202	That's good. I was pleased to hear from the Secretary of State that the picture is stable. It's not a snapshot, but you can see that most payments take place regularly. If there is a reduction in the number of emergency payments, this gives a certain picture. I would like to hear that the Secretary of State will return to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u203	There is a lot of discussion about the measures taken and whether the process is going well. Mrs Dijkstra asked whether the results were sustainable. Isn't there a peak that's gonna fall again soon? I have a number of arguments and signals that indicate that there is a structural, sustainable recovery. The Social Insurance Bank has invested heavily in the training of people, to ensure that there is an integral work and that the work is not divided into all kinds of booths. People can not only handle their part of the work, but can handle the work in full. In case of an emergency payment you can look directly into the system to make sure that it goes well afterwards. In reply to Mr Potters' question, I indicated that the samples validated by the Audit Service show that the results are stable. That's a good sign. We are leaning less on emergency procedures. This is an answer to a question from Mr Van Dijk. In addition to the decline in the work of the rapid response team, we see an improvement in the automatic budgets, the self-approved agreements. This is part of the reduction in the use of emergency procedures. In response to a question from the SP, I say that the number of automatic budgets is decreasing. The SVB had previously allocated over 60,000 budgets on its own initiative. That's 27,000 now. That number continues to fall at this rate. To my taste, there is a structural improvement. We're turning off the tap. There is no reason to sit back on that point, by the way. We will not rest until the last problems have been resolved. I come to the recovery side, which also has to do with sustainability. We have given great priority to paying out, with all the discussions that have taken place. I have always said in my letters that we are not yet there with the payment, because we also have a number of things to recover. Improvement is unmistakably visible, but that is no reason to say that all the problems have been solved. I'm happy with the improvements. I sincerely hope that the people in the country will notice the improvements themselves. I've got signals from that, too. However, I would like to stress once again that I can talk about procedures and numbers, but that the budget holder who has not yet been paid has nothing to do with that. We must continue to look for problems that need to be solved. We must, of course, communicate very well, but above all we must ensure that payments are put in order. For that, recovery is very important. The budget holders are not yet able to see all the information clearly in their portal. The amounts paid may sometimes differ from what healthcare providers expect. There is a discussion about the amount of money available. Some declarations cannot be paid or not paid directly. That may or may not be right. We have just discussed this in detail. Progress on disbursements has been made, but this does not mean that all the problems for the budget holder have been solved. We must continue to solve these problems step by step. The priority we have given to paying out is not the large numbers, but the question is whether people who are entitled to it are simply getting their money. That's the most important thing. You have seen that the recovery plan is now under way. I sent you a first test on March 24th. The chain directors have informed me about their progress. You received that letter as an annex to my letter of 18 May. The chain directors also say: make sure that you don't just use some deadlines again, but that you make a step-by-step improvement visible. Continuously consider: what work does recovery require? Don't let that go at the expense of paying. Make sure you take steps for improvement every time. The importance of good communication to budget holders is paramount. We aim to see these changes in My PCI as soon as possible; that is a justified question. I would also like to inform the Chamber on the progress we make each time and every time we report on what we have achieved on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u204	I listen to the Secretary of State and I think: where have I heard that before? That was also here and so was this Secretary of State. We have been discussing for a few months that communication was not good and that it should be improved. I can guess the answer. The Secretary of State then says that it must be done step by step and that it cannot be done quickly. At some point you get the feeling that that progress may be there, but that it is very slow. I would like to know from the Secretary of State when the communication is in order and when the pgb holders are proactively informed if there is something wrong with declarations. When is that gonna be done, so it's gonna be resolved quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u205	Now we are almost at the stage of the previous debate: can you mention hard deadlines for the moment that everything is resolved? The moment I mention intermediate results, I don't want to give the impression that that will solve everything. The employees of the Social Insurance Bank now have very hard instructions that when there is something wrong with a declaration, they contact the budget holder, the municipality or the healthcare office to solve those problems. If they encounter anything that needs to be repaired in the case of emergency payments, they will do so themselves. I am very aware that you can still do your best with communication, but that will have to be good communication in the eyes of the budget holder. This means an almost individual approach, because people are not waiting for an explanation of how the scheme works. People are waiting for: when do I get paid and when does that system run very well? You're gonna have to take that meter by meter. Fortunately, we have now noticed that, as Mr Van Dijk said, a leap has been made in the speed of payments and in solving the remaining problem. This also requires a lot of personal contact by the Social Insurance Bank with all chain partners. We have not for nothing appointed chain partners who, for example, say to the municipalities: track down the people themselves, for example those who have not yet declared at all for any reason. It is not so much a matter of general communication about how it all works, but of direct approach to people with whom what is what to try to solve their problems. It's a bit of a long answer. I wanted to say that it is not about a communication bulletin, good communication on the website or frequently asked questions. It's all taken care of. At this stage I am concerned that in the coming period there will be as much direct communication with budget holders as possible, sometimes on request and sometimes when something is wrong. I'm sorry for the long answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u206	I also ask this because we know that My PCI is still not in order. That's a means of communication. As a pgb-holder, you should be able to look into the system and see what is going on with the declarations you have submitted, with the payment of them and so on. The system isn't counting on that. I'm not asking for deadlines, but I'd like a realistic look from the Secretary of State. When can this system be in order so that communication is very easily accessible to the pgb holders? I am not talking about a day and a date, but about: end of the year, end of next year. We hear from the ICT experts that it is going to be a very long time before everything is really accessible and works well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u207	I believe that the previous recovery plan states that we hope to settle the written understanding of the state of the budget for the summer. That written insight is very nice, but for the budget holders it is of course much better if they can look at their data in My PCI; Mrs Dijkstra is right about that. They're working hard on that. A number of things have already happened before that. Five important functionalities of Mijn PCI and updating the portal have been discussed, also with Per Recht and the Sociale Verzekeringbank. So they've been inventoried. On May 23rd. A number of improvements have become available. These included clarifications, the transfer of travel expenses, holiday benefits and an improved overview of the healthcare providers who can declare. So those facilities have already been implemented. However, some other issues also require adjustments to ICT systems. I really want to do that as soon as possible. That will also have to be done... this year, just to put it that way. Why is caution creeping into my voice right now? The chain directors have said very emphatically to me: beware of the promise that we will achieve one part, because there is a great chain dependence. Such a commitment can have consequences elsewhere, for example for payment. I don't want to. So I want to do this as soon as possible. I want to achieve a number of things this year as well. A number of things have already been done. However, I really want to do this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u208	The Secretary of State deals with the figures in a special way, to put it mildly. A motion is adopted which provides that all payments will be settled regularly on 15 May. He then returned that by saying: no, it is only about the payment of the declarations submitted after 1 April. He then looked only at the measurement of 15 May. In fact, he has just said that it was 95%, but that turns out to be 90%. I just saw on Twitter an incredibly beautiful translation for "calcubeten." Of the 60-year-olds, 20% will be 100 years old. That would be what the Social Insurance Bank report says. The Secretary of State makes this: 20% of the people in the Netherlands will be 100 years old. That's kind of the story he keeps. He presents the figures in a rosy way. Now there is another survey, namely that one-day survey. It's just been held among all the caregivers, among all the caregivers. No, not among all caregivers, but among caregivers are not the caregivers who are affordable. 40% of them still have problems. What is the response of the Secretary of State to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u209	Of course, I do not know the scientific basis of that survey. Now let's not target each other with percentages that we can all weigh differently. We have said to each other: how do we measure that payment process? The payment speed plays a very important role in this. The figures for this are the figures we have given. Not only did we look at the speed of payment, but also at the development of the working stock. The number of emergency payments has also been looked at. Stability and the development of emergency procedures have been examined. They all appear to be developing in a favourable way. Even so, I say that there are positive signals, the payment rate is now reasonably on steam, but not all problems have been solved. We're all gonna solve the problems step by step. We do this in a way where the priority remains with payment. If budget holders encounter problems, they must be solved as effectively as possible. If we ask people if all their problems have been solved, they will deny it. I see what's going on with people experiencing problems. I sometimes see that a problem in the chain is the cause. Sometimes another problem is the cause. Sometimes things have been paid and sometimes things haven't been paid yet. I've even checked every time to see if the payment problems have been solved by the people who took part in the hearing. Fortunately, that is the case now. So we have to solve this step by step. We can keep chasing each other with numbers, we can keep asking if samples are right and what's going on. However, I chose to ask the Audit Service to measure this regularly. We must do this in a good way and ensure that everyone can follow it. Everyone has to draw their conclusions on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u210	I am talking about figures here because the Secretary of State is based on those 95% correct payments. That's what he's talking about in the letter he sent to the Chamber. On that basis, he said that the promised results had been achieved. The Secretary of State just now needed a lot of words, but he didn't answer my question. The question arose as to what he thinks of the 40% of caregivers who are still experiencing problems in the EenVandaag survey. That was a survey among the total group of caregivers, so not only the group that finally got paid. At 40% of the total group there are still problems. Doesn't that mean the payment process is out of order? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u211	No, you can't conclude that on that basis, because in a lot of cases, money has been paid. These payments have been made with some difficulty, sometimes after contact with the Social Insurance Bank or other bodies. That's really annoying. So there are still problems with achieving those payments. I would like this process to go as undisturbed as possible, that budget holders do not suffer from it at all and that it all goes smoothly. If there are any problems with the declarations, contact is sometimes needed. Sometimes things have to be arranged. Sometimes that's what's bothering you. However, the priority is to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u212	During the round table held by the Chamber, there was a call from all sides to make it simpler and simpler, to avoid double checks and working at different rates and to eliminate unnecessary administrative requirements. That would really help, so was the broad call during that round table discussion, including from Per Balance, for example. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of doing so in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u213	This is a small bridge to the next block; Mr Van der Staaij could not have foreseen this, but I thank him for that. I would now like to address the issue of simplification. In recent times, the main focus has been on accelerating payouts. There's a lot of work being done on the recovery. So I would also like to focus on improvements. At the same time, we have seen and learned a number of things in recent months. On the basis of the implementation practice, we see where the process is running smoothly and where it is not running smoothly. That is something we need to deal with in the coming period. A few elements play a role in this. A first step in the improvement plan is the research of KPMG that I promised earlier. This research focuses on the question of what the desired improvements are, how they can be achieved in stages and what financial frameworks are needed to achieve them. Everyone's involved. We're gonna take a look at that. I believe this investigation will be completed in mid-July. Meanwhile, we see that the number of hoops, as they were called, can be very decisive for the problems experienced by budget holders and for the speed of the process. I want to take that very seriously, because this could be an important change in the finger that making the process simpler will be a great help to get a quick recovery. A number of proposals have been made for this. One can think of making a distinction between small and large payments. Do we have to check everything in the same way? Should we perhaps reduce the number of hoops? I asked the chain directors not only to look in the short term at how the improvement plans will be implemented, but also to talk to all parties about the changes and to see where improvements and simplifications are possible. Per Balance, Each (in) and NPCF are closely involved. I see a lot of possibilities here. At the moment, I cannot say what its impact is, but as far as I am concerned, we need to look not only at improvements that we have already agreed on, but also at learning from what we have seen. We really need to simplify the whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u214	The Secretary of State says that the possibilities are being explored and that he sees those possibilities as well. It is good to do that carefully and to hear everyone about it. On the other hand, I also hear some concern; people are afraid that this might take too long. Can we not use the quick wins that are already there, the easy possibilities to make the process easier, already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u215	Where that is possible, we will certainly do so. However, we see that some simplifications require adaptation of ICT systems. That brings me to a dilemma. What quick wins can we realize right away, so that we can immediately benefit from it, which of course would be fantastic, and for which quick wins does it apply that we should be careful with adjustments, in order to avoid disrupting other things? We're trying to keep that balance. Wherever you can, you have to do it, and wherever it takes adjustments, you have to do it. In doing so, you have to take a good look at the speed at which that could be done. Mr. Chairman. I've already discussed a lot of things. Allow me to take a look at whether I have had a number of cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u216	If it can be a little pointy here and there, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u217	I'll see if I can do that a little pointy here and there. Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Keijzer have asked what is happening in relation to the organisation of the ICT system. It is true, of course, that in the short term the focus is on stabilising and then on developing. Two things have to do with this. The Chamber has seen the reports of M&I, which state what is going well and what is not and how these things need to be improved. I was just talking about the KPMG report, which states what improvements should be made. I want to combine that. We have the ICT report on what is robust and where improvements need to be made, and we have the KPMG report, which looks at the whole system and identifies what improvements are possible. This leads to a specific ICT plan. Mr Van der Staaij stressed that we should not only look at improvements that we saw when we started, but also think about simplifications that might lead to fewer improvements, but rather a simpler system. In this way, we are working to achieve the ICT solutions. Mrs Leijten asked me if I am prepared to reserve what she called 'a substantial amount' for damage. The advice of the chain directors states that if you were considering a compensation scheme, the best way to look at the actual damage would be to look at it. I have been advised to look at the implementation aspects of this and then to look at what kind of regulation this could lead to. I've given the order to work that out. On this basis, we will examine what a reasonable estimate is. I don't have a visual yet. This will follow the further development of the compensation scheme. I think I have answered Mrs Leijten's other questions in my speech or in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u218	There is no doubt that Mrs Leijten thinks otherwise. Or not. Or wait, now I've provoked her a little bit. I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u220	I'm having second thoughts. I've asked a lot of questions about why the Secretary of State wanted us to make certain things appear to us. We specifically asked why we were not informed last year that relapse scenarios and emergency scenarios were actually needed. If we had known that, we could have influenced the possible decision-making process on the date of 1 January. The Secretary of State believes that we are well informed, but I note that we have not received any information. As far as this year is concerned, the Secretary of State has consistently said that it would be all right. He also reported on 26 January. Then he answered 39 questions from all the political groups in the Chamber. He reported that all people would simply be paid out. He wrote that there was a little problem with the accessibility of the Social Insurance Bank, but that was solved. A week later, he apologized to the budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u221	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u222	The Secretary of State knew at the time he answered the parliamentary questions that it would probably not work out. Then why did he promise to be okay when he knew there were big problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u223	I had understood the question a bit the other way around. Of course, measures have been taken on the basis of the problems identified, including accessibility. The measures on accessibility have been effective, as we can see now, because accessibility has been brought to a level at which calls can reasonably be dealt with. That doesn't mean it all went well in the past. For what didn't go well, I apologized. What's not going well is still very annoying. In all the measures we want to take and in all the measures we are going to take to improve the process, I want to keep in mind, step by step, that the budget holders are paid as well as possible. That's what I keep thinking. The fact that accessibility has improved, that the payment process is in order and that we are still going to make recovery, does not alter the fact that it is still not good and that things are going wrong. We have to go after that, and it's incredibly hard for people to suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u224	This is the sixth debate and every letter does not clarify the matter, but draws up a smokescreen. The Secretary of State does not inform us that 75,000 health care contracts have been wrongly administered. He does not tell us that 15,000 people had been entered as handled, but that it turned out that they had not been paid. No, we're gonna have to ask for a long time. He does say in the media that the problems are almost solved and that the leak is upstairs. Can the Secretary of State, looking in the mirror, say that we are moving in the right direction with this presentation of things? Can he tell this Chamber and, more importantly, the budget holders and caregivers that he put them on the right track?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u225	There are two kinds of answers to this. Answer one is that we have taken everything out of the box to ensure that the introduction of drawing rights for budget holders can take place. We really took everything out of the closet for that, and yet we have not achieved the result we wanted to achieve. That sucks, and I apologized for that. Not because we wouldn't have worked incredibly hard to put it in order, but because budget holders wouldn't have any use for stories if the results weren't achieved, and should have had their money on time. The same applies to the period we are now in. We need to improve this step by step, and that is why we need to get everything out of the closet. You can count on me to make sure that our people do that, that the SVB does that and that the municipalities get to work. On the contrary, I want a sustainable embedding of the right of trekking; on the contrary, I want to guarantee the pgbs in the future, so that people get paid. That's what my efforts are all about. I don't look in the mirror every day for that, for which I look in the mirror every hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u226	No, Mrs. Leijten, you've been there twice. We're going to see Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u227	Mrs Leijten is, of course, quite right that we and the budget holders are constantly being put on the wrong track. The Secretary of State doesn't even regret it. He's just gonna go through with it. We were trying to figure out what questions are left. I have asked questions about the similarities or differences with the Bulgarian fraud and I have asked about the harassment of budget holders by the Social Insurance Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u228	I shall now turn to the specific questions and will also answer some specific questions for Mrs Agema. I will see if any further questions from Mrs Emperor have not been raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u229	I notice that the Secretary of State continues to do so. With me, there's still a question. Mrs Leijten says that a smokescreen is being drawn, but the Secretary of State does not go into that. He says: we have done our very best, I can look at myself in the mirror every hour, I hate it and I think it sucks. That wasn't the question. The question was: does he think he has sufficiently informed us throughout that period?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u230	I've tried to prove what I've informed you about. I informed you of what we were going to do differently than was agreed with you earlier. I have also tried to inform you as best I can about what is happening. We now look afterwards at the whole process and what has been done to manage risks prior to 1 January. I can very well imagine you saying that in a number of areas things went wrong, could we have known that and should we have been given information earlier? Do you think I wouldn't have informed you if I had gotten the idea myself that things would go wrong? What interest would I have in that? We have always tried to inform you in all conscience about the state of the process, how we managed the risks, what the results were and how we are going to shape them better. That is what I want to continue to do in the coming period, if that is what I am given. I have tried to inform you in all conscience. I can very well imagine you saying, now that that went wrong afterwards: shouldn't we have more information? I can imagine that feeling very well, but I have tried to inform you as well as possible on the basis of that information, those insights and that assessment of the feasibility on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u231	I didn't just say that, but I said that before. We started last year to send the signals that it would not be possible by 1 January to the Secretary of State. I also realize that this is going to be a repeat of moves. It is not that we look at it retroactively and say that it did not go well. We noticed that then and then we were told that it was going well. We are now receiving a letter from the Secretary of State in which he writes that 95% of the payments are in order, according to the regular system. I read something else in the audit, by the way. The table on page 12 says it was 90% on May 15th. Apart from that, the question is how to assess the information we are now getting from the Secretary of State, looking back at the signals we have given earlier and seeing how we have been informed. It'd all be okay. That's what they're saying now. The Secretary of State is trying to do that realistically, I'll admit it. He says, "Little steps, it's not going too fast." We are of course extremely impatient, but we do want to know what it is worth what the Secretary of State says to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u232	I am trying to be very transparent about how I respond to the motion you tabled. We have had another debate on this. You asked me to tell you in advance how I intended to implement that motion, and that is what I did. That was the march route. We then asked the Audit Service of the Social Insurance Bank to measure this. It has indicated how this has been measured and what the results are. I presented those results. In addition, I did not say that everything was resolved. I did not say that there were no more problems at all, but I said that the motion was successful. More focus has been put on the payment process. This means that we are now able to look at the speed of payment and that we are getting the whole process in order step by step. Not only did I tell you that, but I also showed how we measured and sent that report from the audit service, so that it could be taken into account to make a substantiated assessment of whether that went well. I want to inform as transparently as possible. I am not going to say that everything is resolved at once, but that we are working on it step by step. I can also conclude from time to time that the measures taken lead to results. I can report that then. I try to make sure that I say that everything is resolved, because I also notice that when I say what the results are, sometimes the reaction is that I say that everything is resolved. I'm not saying that, and I'm not gonna say that. I want to report as transparently as possible on what we agreed on, how we measure that and how you assess it. I ask for that opinion from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u233	The cry "repeat of moves" sounded for a while. There are some elements that come back here and there, to put it euphemistically. You're busy this morning at 11:00. It's been 5:00 p.m. by now. This Secretary of State is not ready yet and we have another Secretary of State who is eager to be impatient. Ergo, I hope we can do it a little faster. Then we can look at a second term and then the MPs can draw their own conclusions. I hope we can get a little speeding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u234	I'll put it briefly. "Inconsiderate," the Court of Auditors says. The Secretary of State just said he underestimated it. I am now looking for the reason why he did not send all that information to the Chamber; not that report, not the letter to the Health Institute of 30 July, not the Deloitte report, to name but three. All that information didn't come to the Chamber last year. Is that because the Secretary of State was in a very hurry to reach 1 January, as the Court of Auditors' report shows?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u235	No. I believe that we have had a debate on this before. We have discussed with each other the question of whether the Chamber wants all this information. I said at the time that we are working on the priority of payment and that we must indeed evaluate it. I also pointed out that the Court of Auditors is in the process of carrying out an investigation, that the Court of Auditors may be able to use it to reach an overall assessment of how it went. It's quite a piece of paper, I said. I think I recall that Mrs Keijzer then tabled a motion asking for that pile of paper. That motion was rejected at that time. Then, following press publications, in which the suggestion was raised that there was something strange in a report, there was another discussion about that information. I said: here's all the information. The Chamber has also been able to see and get it. That is why we are now holding this debate. I'm really trying to inform the Chamber as transparently as possible. I have said that the Court of Auditors has received all this stuff and will come forward with a report. In the end, the Chamber requested all the supplies and the Chamber received them. That is the basis for this debate. I'm trying to inform the Chamber as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u236	Just now, the Secretary of State made a mistake in the percentage paid in time on 15 May, and now he is mistaken in the motion, because it was only about the minutes of the drawing committee. The Secretary of State says no. I don't think I'm gonna ask for a suspension to turn up that motion. Here too we hear a lot of words, but no answer to the question whether the Secretary of State was simply in a hurry to reach 1 January. When reading the Court's report, you will see that as the date of 1 January approaches, there is an increasing number of meetings. There was just no room to share unpleasant information with the Chamber last year. I regret that, because it did not give the House the chance to join him in saying that, as the Secretary of State says, we are finally going to make this decision, and that is why we are now dealing with the problem of pears. At least, not "we," but the budget holders and the caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u237	With permission, Mrs Keijzer asks the question: was the Secretary of State not in a hurry to introduce all this? I'm going to use the term "we" again. We've decided to change the laws and anchor the pgbs in new laws. We have also decided to introduce the right of draw on 1 January 2015. Surely the Chamber can't blame me for doing my best to do that? I understand that Mrs Keijzer is asking how all these problems can be avoided. We're all analyzing it from the beginning. She can't blame me for trying to implement decisions we've made together as well as possible, can she? If there are signs that this is still feasible, I am committed to realising it. She can't blame me for this, can she?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u238	One sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u239	One sentence! This too is not correct. We have passed laws, but a law always allows an article to enter into force later. The moment you pass a law, it won't enter into force. A law will enter into force if the Royal Decree so decides. I have no choice but to say that the Secretary of State is again saying something that is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u240	It bothers me too, firstly because we did not approve it and secondly because the Secretary of State had much more information than the Chamber. The problem lies with the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u241	There is a difference between the situation before 1 January and after 1 January. The situation before 1 January was that we were working on each other, at least I am, in order to give the best possible shape to the decisions we have taken together on the introduction of pgbs in different laws and the introduction of the drawing right on 1 January 2015. There were no signals at the time that 1 January 2015 was not feasible. On that basis, I continued to do my best to ensure that it could be introduced. There were then implementation problems. We are all very annoyed about this, first of all, but it is difficult for us to say to each other that this was not the intention. At least I didn't experience that as my mission as such. I come to a specific question from Mrs Keijzer. She asked why there is sometimes no exhaustion of the budget. There are still budget holders who haven't declared anything yet. This can have several reasons: they don't want it, there's no indication anymore, they deliberately don't use it anymore or they haven't done it yet. We have approached the municipality with the task of getting the budget holders that are going to be talked about in the context of the indication, a little bit of a bit of an indication, let me simply say that we are behind the rags to make sure that people who want to declare are going to do so as soon as possible. Mrs. Agema asked if there was any difference with the Bulgarian fraud. We are not talking about fraud here, but about whether pgbs are paid in time to prevent it. That's what we want to try to do as best we can. According to the Court of Auditors, the answer to the question of whether it is going to be okay is to look into a glass ball, as Mrs Agema said. Yes. We must do this step by step: put the payments in order, ensure that they are restored, ensure that they are improved and, as Mr van der Staaij said, make sure that they are simplified. Mrs Dik-Faber asked about the declarations that were problematic. I believe that we have discussed this in detail. The same applies to the Court of Auditors' opinion. I believe that these questions have been addressed as well as possible. Let me take a look at Mrs. Dik-Faber's body language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u242	She sits still; or she doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u243	The Secretary of State has simply overlooked the most important question, so I would like to repeat it. For my group, the worst case scenario is that the pgb is succumbing to the problems that are now being raised. My question to the Secretary of State I have asked that question earlier is whether he is confident that it will work out. Are we gonna save the pgb?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u244	The answer is yes. It is not for nothing that I started my argument with my motivations. What really drives me in the field of the pgbs is that the pgb is the key to a quality of life that is decisive and suitable for them. In the care system, we need the pgbs, with all the problems that we have been discussing for eighteen years, to direct people themselves, to give people the opportunity of customization, to make sure that they are much more able to live their own lives and that sometimes they can also choose their own caregivers at the time and place that suits them. We've been trying to find that balance for 18 years. I am very motivated to withdraw this debate from the next stage. The pgb is anchored in the laws. There must be reasonable controls. It is simply a substantial part of the new healthcare system, in which more tailor-made work needs to be done. I'm sure it has to be and that it can be. If it's given to me, I'll keep working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u245	I welcome this answer. When I referred this question to the Secretary of State last time, he needed a lot of words and I got a very unclear "yes." Now I have heard it clearly from the State Secretary: yes, there is confidence and we are going to put this system in order for all those budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u246	It is indeed a very clear "yes" to the question of whether it will all be okay. I had asked earlier when it would be all right, but the Secretary of State did not answer. However, he just murmured an answer in my direction on the conclusion of the General Court. He said: you can't make promises for a well-functioning system; that's looking into a glass ball. Why does the Secretary of State have a different opinion than the General Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u247	Because when you introduce the right of draw, we learn that every day we get new information that you have to do something with. In this way, we find out in the implementation practice we are experiencing now that the number of hoops may be too large. That is Mr Van der Staaij's point. That's a real point. At first we thought that simplification should not be part of that improvement, but now it turns out that it should be part of that improvement. Cleaning up the system must go hand in hand with improvements and simplifications. We do not need to establish that it is all settled on date X, but we need to step by step to ensure that those payments are made, that the reliability of the system increases, that people can look into My PCI and that they themselves get the direction over their budget. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u248	There's an incredibly expensive emergency scenario running. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked if she's gonna be okay. "Yes," says the Secretary of State. "That's glass ball thinking," says the General Court. The Secretary of State just doesn't answer. I'm really sorry about that. The General Court says it's looking into a glass ball. The Secretary of State says that it is not and that it is going to be okay, although he does not say when it will be okay and when we will no longer have to run a very expensive emergency scenario. In fact, it is a very unsatisfactory debate. We had an approved motion for this with a date in it. It wasn't January 1st, it was May 15th. Where are we going now? When did the Secretary of State solve his problems? Or should the Chamber mention another date that will not be met? Is the General Court right when it talks about a glass ball? Then confirm that. Or is the Secretary of State right and everything's gonna be okay? Then give me a date. I would also like to answer the question about Bulgarian fraud. So it's two things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u249	I just gave the answer to that question. We are not talking about fraud here, but about the operation of a system that should lead to the payment of pgbs to people. So we are not talking here about how much fraud there is in that system. The right to draw has just been introduced to ensure that fraud is combated. The glass ball is about whether you can give a date in which it is all in order. We shouldn't do that with each other. That's what the chain directors and the Court of Auditors say. You have to take it one step at a time to get this process in order. The priorities are to pay, restore, improve, simplify and make it work. Then it is only very good that I will regularly inform the Chamber about its progress and that it will be able to assess with me whether we are really getting along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u250	Mrs. Agema, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u251	I think the Secretary of State knows damn well that there's a link to the Bulgarian fraud and that I'm talking about why former Secretary of State Weekers resigned. There were problems in the chain for which the Tax Administration was the final responsible. Now we also see problems in the chain for which the Social Insurance Bank is the ultimate responsible. These problems persist. Secretary of State Weekers took credit for himself. My question is why Secretary of State Van Rijn does not honour himself. Now we see that this problem is not going to work out at all. So it's worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u252	I will explain to you what I have done, what has gone well, what has not gone well, how I have informed the Chamber and what I intend to do in the coming period to make sure that it is done step by step. I want to answer for that in the Chamber, as I do now. The Chamber must now reach a verdict. That's what I'm standing here for. Our goal is a well-functioning pgb system that gives enough self-direction in the eyes of the budget holders to manage one's own care. I'm working hard for that. I want to answer to that every day, every moment and every minute. The Court must then decide whether that is sufficient. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Voortman asked me to take over the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. I may not endorse the Court's entire analysis of the actions and risk assessment that we have talked about, but I very much support the Court's conclusions and recommendations. I'll take it from here, too. Much more attention needs to be paid to execution tests. Moreover, recommendations have not only been made in this area. The Court of Auditors actually says that the whole government should pay much more attention to the implementation component in many schemes and policies. The Court of Auditors is right about that. Especially in the case of major reforms, there will need to be a much stronger focus on implementation. I just think that over the next few months we will regularly sit around and discuss how things are going in the field, what implementation issues there are and what we can do with each other. I endorse that recommendation. The second recommendation is: if there are so many chain partners involved, there must be a clear direction. As far as that hasn't happened, we've appointed chain directors. The Court of Auditors is right. This type of large project, in which there is a single implementation organisation and in which different levels of government are involved, requires a great deal of direction to ensure that it goes well. When implementing signals, it is actually the same point as the first: make sure that there are execution keys and that you do them as wide as possible in advance, so that you can provide as many things as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u253	It is, of course, a bit strange that the Secretary of State does not fully share the analysis, but he does share the recommendations he mentions here. The analysis is precisely the foundation for these conclusions. The Court of Auditors has said this about the transfer of data, about the signals, about the implementation test. The Ministry then gives, in a written response to those points, actually to "I won't repeat it all "that it doesn't recognize that image'. Then the Ministry won't recognize the problems, will it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u254	I agree with you that we should look very closely at these recommendations. You can discuss with each other whether the roadmap was really an execution key. In the letters you read that we put the road map and an execution test side by side and that they were indeed very similar, but that is not really the point of the Court of Auditors. However, the Court of Auditors says that the implementation tests must be such that you have maximum understanding, so that you can anticipate as many implementation problems as possible. I fully agree with that, because the focus on implementation really needs to be improved. However, I would like to make the point that you can never foresee everything. You can make maximum efforts to do so, but it will remain so that reality can take place differently than you thought. That is sometimes a good thing, but in this case it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u255	Then there is no question of fully embracing the Court of Auditors' report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u256	On a number of points we are discussing, for example, whether we have been able to foresee everything and whether we have responded well enough to the signals. Where the suggestion is made that we have not been paying attention to the signals, I have referred to the timetable and the many risk signals that have been responded to. Where the Court of Auditors has a point, it seems that no action has been taken to prevent these problems. I agree with the Court of Auditors. I want to avoid a word game, but my statement would be that it was tried to act as carefully as possible on the eve of 1 January 2015, but that this did not lead to a careful implementation process for the budget holder. I agree with the Court of Auditors. The implementation tests need to provide even more guidance and we need to make other scenarios, other assessments and other risk analyses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u257	Can the Secretary of State conclude?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u258	I'm definitely gonna try. I have tried to answer Mr Van der Staaij's questions as well as possible. From his body language I can see that he nods nicely in my direction, as far as body language is possible. Mr Krol has asked questions about, among other things, Nieuwsuur. I answered his question about Per Balance, as did the question about compensation. He asked me about my reaction to the acting of the congregations. In my letters I have already made it clear that the municipality can also play a role in ensuring that people do not get into trouble. I would urge the municipalities to cooperate as much as possible with the Social Insurance Bank to make the system work. I am a little hesitant when I see that the municipalities are now giving advances that have to be settled later with the Social Insurance Bank's payment, so that budget holders may have to repay things back to the municipality because they have received money from the Social Insurance Bank. Where municipalities can ensure that people do not get into trouble, they must do so, but let them, above all, do so in accordance with the Social Insurance Bank, so that the drawing right system works as well as possible. Otherwise, we're gonna have all kinds of set-offs again. Mr Krol will understand that I am a little reluctant on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u259	I asked four questions. One was whether the calculation of Groningen was correct, showing that it cost the municipality 1.2 million. If you count that back to the whole of the Netherlands, you'll come to 100 million. Who's gonna pay for that? I also asked a question about the material damage. The Secretary of State says that this will be discussed after the summer, but the people who are in trouble now probably want to get a little clearer when that is "after the summer." I also asked why the treatment of the Standards Act was postponed for health care administrators. The answer was that this was done with care, but why did the drawing rights have to be introduced with steam and hot water before 1 January? Those are three questions I haven't had an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u260	As far as the additional costs and payments are concerned, as you know, we have discussed all kinds of issues with the municipalities and the UNG regarding the implementation of decentralisation. There is also the section on social insurance costs. We have made agreements with the municipalities about the costs. I said that in 2015 we should look at any additional costs, who should pay them and whether they should be borne by us. We have agreed to this with the UNG. The UNG has received additional funding for the implementation of the decentralisations, including this point. I myself think that the extra money that has been given should be sufficient, but I have declared my willingness to investigate that. Let us also note that what municipalities need to do is to establish care agreements and send out grant messages. This is one of the normal tasks of the municipalities, not only with regard to care in kind, but also with regard to budget holders. It is not the case that there is an extra task for municipalities, because they have to take care of people who have a pgb and then have to take a decision. They have to. The question is whether this recovery period will provide additional work. At this stage, I would certainly not like to commit myself to the sum that Mr Krol is making. I am prepared to investigate the additional costs, but not some kind of mix of the municipalities' regular tasks with any additional tasks. I said that we are working out the compensation scheme. This means that only then can I say what the nature and extent of the damage is. I'm not going to commit to that right now. We are working on this and I will return to the Chamber in due course. The Top Income Standards Act has been introduced. We have tried to introduce it as soon as possible. There are many other reasons why all of this sometimes did and sometimes didn't work out. I understand the "funnyness" of the equation, but let us not associate incomparable things with each other. Mr Van Dijk has drawn quite a lot of attention to the following, and rightly so. We can talk a great deal about what has happened and the state of affairs, but it is perhaps not for this debate, but for the future it is all the more important to talk about simplification. He too said that we should look at the number of checks and the number of hoops. I am very willing to discuss with Per Balance, Each (in), BVKZ and indeed all chain partners the fact that we are not only talking about improvements, but above all about simplifications. Under the hood it may be complicated, but it should not affect budget holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u261	I welcome this answer, but the little debate between Mr Van der Staaij and the Secretary of State said that this should not frustrate the ongoing payment process. Of course, that's true, and I understand that in itself. Nevertheless, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what steps he is taking with Per Recht, with the trade association and with the SVB, in order to achieve that simpler system. When will we be able to hear about this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u262	I am already in conversation with Elke(in), Per Balance, NPCF and with the chain. The chain directors will do so widely throughout the chain, in order to identify possibilities for simplification. I would like to say that the various progress reports that we will periodically send to the Chamber will, from now on, include the state of play of the simplification debate, so that the Chamber can continue to monitor this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u263	I have not yet received an answer to one question. During the hearing it appeared that the rapid response team is easily accessible to caretakers and individual budget holders, but thatzzp'ers in care sometimes have difficulty getting in there. My question to the Secretary of State was whether he would like to take this actively with the rapid response team, to ensure that these people can go there as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u264	Yeah, I'd like to take a look at that, but with one comment. The budget holder has to decide who gets the money. If a healthcare professional calls the rapid response team and says he needs money as soon as possible, a check must be made with the budget holder. I think there must be some kind of access and at the same time there must be a check that it is arranged through the budget holder. He or she must decide that the caregiver is rightly paid. I would like to take a look at this. I have discussed with Mr Potters the question of declarations. Are they correct or not, and is that being investigated further? We've already done that. I also answered the question of how to combine the improvement plan and the simplification plan. We are not going on the road that we thought we should follow, but we are first looking at where it can be easier. Improvements shall take account of simplification possibilities at the same time. Mr Van Klaveren asked about the software and ICT. They are not really software problems in the sense that no claims can be paid on this basis. The problem is that there is no automatic notification if there is an error in the system. It's got to be built in. If there is a hiccup in the system, the system must specify where the error is, so that it does not need to be checked manually. The improvement plan takes into account what system adjustments are needed to better monitor business operations. It also examines which system adjustments are needed to better look into My PCI and which system adjustments are needed to simplify a number of things. The latter is a new element. That's what we're on our way. We shall also have to take this step by step. Each time it is considered whether it is not contrary to the priority we have given to paying out. I came to the end of my first term with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u265	Mrs Keijzer has a short pointy question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u266	I understand that the Secretary of State still has confidence in the ICT system, although it has been said before that it is total loss. We'll probably see about that. I have asked the Secretary of State a number of very specific questions that have not been answered. We know that the Secretary of State is very good with words, but I have also asked for figures for facts. How many of the claims received from the Social Insurance Bank have not been paid? How many are in order? How many healthcare agreements still need to be adjusted? How many received e-mails, letters or phone calls have been answered and how many have not yet been answered? How many tariffs have not been correctly introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u267	In the whole pile of paper and in all the reports you have received quite a few figures. Now you ask for some of the same figures and some of the other figures. I will look at it for the second term, but I do not feel that this adds much to the question we are discussing, namely to improve it step by step and to ensure that all production goes well. I can ask Mrs Keijzer not to have a number discussion with each other. Above all, we need to see how it went. It must reach a verdict. Then there is the question of how we are going to improve the situation over the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u268	I asked these questions at 11.30 a.m. this morning. I just really want to know. We know the Secretary of State as a man who is very good at words. After a long talk, you think: it all sounds nice, but I don't know either. That's why I want these numbers. Those questions were asked six hours ago. I just want to know. If you know this, you can judge what's really going on with the Social Insurance Bank. Then you can also judge how things are really going with the problems of all those people, whoever the Secretary of State keeps saying it's about them. Sometimes he does that in a bit of a reproach towards me when I'm just talking about facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u269	I do not have the impression that I can satisfy you with the answer to those questions; I had to look for a different word from what I originally wanted to use. Those numbers are not all-encompassing for answering the questions you are asking. About 635,000 declarations have been paid. There is now a working stock of 18,000. The rapid response has dropped to a few dozen. There are no more work stocks at the Social Insurance Bank. I didn't count the number of e-mails. I do know that the SVB scans the e-mails to see if there are any payment questions in there. In the case of an affirmative answer, these questions shall be put into the system. I try to give you the best possible answer, but if you ask me more questions every time with the aim of having a different discussion with the answer, then I cannot help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u270	In this sixth debate, which is a bit of a list of all the previous debates, it is clear that not only did not go well, but it should not have happened. In the meantime, an apology has been made. Nevertheless, the Secretary of State says that things are going well now, that things are getting better step by step, and that the report of the General Court is a little bit off the record, even though it is devastating. Does the Secretary of State believe that the response over the last four hours will increase confidence in politics or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u271	Mrs Leijten begins by saying that the Secretary of State says that everything is going well now. I started by saying that I didn't say that and I don't want to say that either. I have said that I am going one step at a time to make sure that the process is in order. Mrs Leijten says that the Secretary of State says that the Court of Auditors' report is a bit out of the question. I indicated in this debate that I may have a slightly different analysis from the Court of Auditors on a number of points, but that I agree with the Court's conclusion and that I follow its recommendations. That's what I said. I didn't say that the report aside is the truth. I come to political credibility. Is it necessary to say that we are in the process of reform, which means that we can provide for everything that happens in implementation, that nothing ever goes wrong, and that if something goes wrong, you should not take that responsibility, but that you should look at how to improve it? Political responsibility means taking responsibility not only for change, but also for the mistakes in it and therefore for the solutions to it. Those aren't good stories. Those are difficult stories, but I don't think the people in the country are waiting for someone who says "it's all going well" or "gosh, it went wrong, that's something." I think that people need someone to say: we are in the process of major changes, I realise that things are going wrong, we are taking responsibility for them and we are also taking responsibility for solving them. I think that ultimately helps political credibility better than saying that it went wrong and just saying sorry. I also said I was sorry. I think people want to hear what efforts are being made to solve the problems. I am very committed to this. I am and will remain motivated to make the personal budget a substantial, full part of the new healthcare system. That's not in order yet, but it's gonna be fine. We will have to do that one step at a time. It is very important that we continue to work on this with all our strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u272	The Secretary of State has said five debates in a row that, given all the risks, 1 January was feasible. Today he says we shouldn't have done that. Yes, the Secretary of State said so. However, he said two weeks ago that he fully implemented Mrs Dijkstra's motion. He has researched the declarations that are going well and cannot answer questions about what is not going well. That 75,000 people were just as badly introduced at the Social Insurance Bank; we don't even know. We need to ask, we need to pick up information. How do you think budget holders and caregivers look at this? Do you think that budget holders and caregivers think: someone who completely underestimated 1 January will now make the improvements step by step? I think that's important. Is the Secretary of State working on his political image here? Or is the Secretary of State actually putting it on the table: unfortunately, I cannot say that the Dijkstra motion has been carried out, because we simply do not have the information available? Wouldn't that be much more honest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u273	As far as I'm concerned, I'm only working on one thing, or actually two. I have already said how important I think it is that the personal budget is a full part of the new healthcare system. Own direction, more independence, quality of life; that is incredibly important. We have been talking for eighteen years about combining more freedom with a little better control in the interests of the budget holders themselves. We're in the process of putting that in. That was not without difficulty to say it euphemistically. I hope that budget holders will recognize that I am engaged in the operation, which is changing care, which makes it possible for personal budgets to become an integral part of all the health care laws we have. I hope they also recognise that there is a Secretary of State who, if there are problems, sees them, deals with them and ensures that they are resolved. That will have to be the opinion of the Chamber and ultimately the opinion of the budget holders. I'm doing this for the budget holders. The pgbs should become an integral part of the health care laws. If there are problems, they need to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u274	Fine. Thank you. We're going to listen to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. She's been waiting a few hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u275	Mr. Chairman. I thank the members of the Chamber. In my opinion, in their first term, they took a very firm approach to the fact that the personal budgets are extremely important. I think it is very worthwhile that today everyone actually says: these pgb's really matter to the people who are involved. We all know these people and we all know what those pgbs mean, so I think there's no doubt that everyone in the Chamber wants to put their shoulders underneath them. It is therefore good to be able to experience this debate, because now I also see how it works in the Chamber's care sector. I'm here because I formally own the Social Insurance Bank. From this role of owner I would of course also like to help, to get the lot around this file well on track. Not that many questions have been asked to me, but Mr Krol and Mr Klein have asked me exactly what this owner is doing and whether the rest of the SVB's tasks are still being carried out with full force and enthusiasm. I can answer that question with a full "yes" because the owner of the SVB has to monitor that the tasks of the SVB are carried out neatly. If a new task is added, the owner must ensure that the other tasks are properly carried out. I can imagine that Mr Klein and Mr Krol, at first instance, are looking at securing the tasks of the SVB in the area of the AOW, but that guarantee also applies to the child budget, and to the implementation of the General Survivors' Act and the regime for war victims. In short, these tasks are well secured. The Social Insurance Bank has always carried out these tasks with a great deal of commitment and is appreciated for this. Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Voortman asked questions about the recommendations of the Court of Auditors. These recommendations are very commendable. The General Court says that the role of the owner deserves to be strengthened in terms of methodology and instruments. I take this very much to heart, because, of course, it is a matter of great importance that this role can be properly fulfilled. Of course, the execution tests were also discussed in my colleague's term. It has become very clear that the road map has been used as execution key. However, I believe that, also on the basis of what the General Court writes, I should ensure that, in the event of major changes, those implementing tests are updated in a single document. It is therefore important that we also fully face these execution tests. All relevant elements should be taken into account and updated in a single document. In 2014 we started to review the directional vision of Social Affairs in the context of the independent administrative bodies. Of course we also have the UWV. In doing so, the division of roles between the client and the contractor is explained and recorded. It should not be the case that there is noise on the line between the client and the owner of an independent administrative body. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Voortman in particular that I would like to take into account the recommendations of the Court of Auditors on this point in the re-examination of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u276	The Court also concludes that the Ministry of Social Affairs, for which the State Secretary is responsible, has not adequately monitored the feasibility of the scheme. Under the law, the Ministry should have. What does the Secretary of State do with that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u277	The General Court has said that everything has changed between the client and the contractor in 2014. At the end of the ride, the owner must see if a new role, a new task, is properly taken into account by the SVB, in the context I mentioned just now when I answered Mr Klein and Mr Krol. I have not received any signals before 1 January 2015 that this new task could not be properly anchored in the SVB. I believe that the General Court, with its knowledge of the present situation, makes very commendable recommendations on matters that can be improved. I am very much in favour of this, and I will take care of those recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u278	The Social Insurance Bank is an implementation organisation. The political board, or the Ministry of Social Affairs, must oversee the feasibility. I take the answer from the Secretary of State in such a way that she acknowledges that the Ministry of Social Affairs has not adequately monitored the feasibility of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u279	These aren't my words. I have just said that, in the course of 2014, we have seen, of course, how things were prepared at the table of the chain partners in relation to the implementation of the drawing rights by the Social Insurance Bank. However, before 1 January 2015, I did not get any signals that this task could not be carried out by the Social Insurance Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u280	Mr Potters asked what exactly happened in December. On 9 December, the Sociale Verzekeringsbank stated that it would need two weeks extra to dissect all health care contracts, while on 22 December the Sociale Verzekeringsbank announced that it would need a number of weeks more. That's right. During the period between 9 December and 22 December, it appeared that the number of health care contracts remained significantly behind and that they did not enter as enthusiastically as was thought at first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u281	I have asked a question and also expressed my dismay. Secretary of State Klijnsma says she owns the Social Insurance Bank. The Social Insurance Bank has intimidated the victims. They were even instructed to tweet the shocking words "problem solved to our satisfaction." We received a letter from the Secretary of State. She wrote that she had summoned the board of directors of the Social Insurance Bank to the Ministry and that the problem had been solved, because the Social Insurance Bank would no longer do so in the future. I was actually expecting the Secretary of State to fire the board of directors. My question is why she didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u282	I was told that this was covered in an agreement concluded with a healthcare provider, in the context of the personal budgets. I wasn't amused, because that's not how a government deals with a citizen. I called the board of directors and said that I don't want to go through this anymore. It was a one-off matter and the Management Board immediately had the care agreement amended. And to answer Agema's question, that was no reason for me to dismiss the board. After all, the board acted immediately. That's what's been put an end to it for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u283	I find it truly bewildering that the standard is apparently so low that the Social Insurance Bank, whose Secretary of State owns it, for which it is ultimately responsible and on which it is accountable, has been able to do so without the State Secretary dismissing the entire board of directors. She says, "Yes, I didn't. I find that truly astonishing. If she stays here, I will put a motion to the Chamber to do so. You can say it's been solved because it's not happening anymore, but the board of directors will have to have the norm high. The board of directors will need to know that you can't intimidate those who have been harmed by dictating them to report positively. That really is unacceptable and unacceptable!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u284	I fully agree with Mrs Agema; let that be very clear. I can inform Mrs Agema that this also applies to the entire board of directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u285	Has condition 4 disappeared from that contract by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u286	Got condition 4 over Twitter or...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u287	Perhaps you could tell me what condition 4 was, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u288	That condition was that there was any secrecy about the agreement at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u289	In similarities, it's often a matter of making agreements about secrecy. I understand that the entire agreement has been cancelled and that there is regular contact with the healthcare provider in question, so that it is handled properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u290	Condition 4 means you can't talk about an agreement. That agreement simply states that Mrs Beelen will receive the money she is entitled to. Doesn't the Secretary of State himself think it's an idiotic condition in itself that you tell someone who gives you the money that they deserve, that they shouldn't talk about it? Again, is condition 4 off the table? And if the Secretary of State doesn't know that, doesn't she think it should be off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u291	In such an agreement, you look back and forth at how you deal with each other. I know that the whole agreement is a matter of attention, both from the board of directors and from the healthcare provider. Good arrangements have now been made around the healthcare provider. This means that board and healthcare provider go through one door, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u292	Finally, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u293	Well, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u294	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u295	You are indeed talking about this, Mr President, I do not misunderstand, but I am simply asking a question. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree that condition 4, the imposition of secrecy, should also be off the table? Doesn't she think that you don't impose it on people you agree with that they get the money they've worked for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u296	Again, secrecy is something you meet again and again. Condition 5, which concerns the tweet, just couldn't. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u297	We're gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u298	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u299	You have three...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u300	I know that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u301	The Secretary of State is talking about her own answers. It replied as it did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u302	But it does not answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u303	I do not think this is a problem, Mr President, but I think I have given a very clear answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u304	This put an end to the government's first term. Some Members of Parliament have informed me that they need a suspension before we can proceed to the second term. With a look at the clock, I think it would be wise to combine this suspension with the dinner break, since the debate scheduled for tonight has now been removed from the agenda. I'd like to suspend for 45 minutes for dinner break. Then we'll continue with the second term of the Chamber. Isn't it good? Mrs. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u305	No, Mr President, as far as I'm concerned, this is not gonna work. I'd like to suspend until 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u306	Support that. There are groups that want to be consulted. There are groups that may want to consult each other. We all know there's a motion of censure in the air. We should all be able to think about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u307	I heard you guys needed a ten-minute suspension. That's why I thought I solved this neatly by proposing 45 minutes, including dinner break. This is about a suspension before the second period begins. I hear they're asking for an hour and a half. I also see a nod in agreement. Then we'll suspend until 7:30. Then everyone has plenty of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u308	An hour seems like a good time to combine dinner and consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u309	No, I just did. At that time, you also said that it was too short. I also thought that I saw Mr Van Dijk nodding in agreement when I proposed an hour and a half at the request of a number of political groups. Let's keep it at an hour and a half. I'm suspending the meeting until 7:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u310	The next item is the second term of office. Speaking time shall be two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u311	Mr. Chairman. We have faced an incredibly difficult balance today. For me and my group, this has been a real struggle. We have needed time to do so and we have talked about it with each other for a long time. How do we assess the debate we have had today? Tens of thousands of pgb-holders and caregivers have been empty-handed for over five months; five months of just working without a salary, I'm giving it to you to do. The VVD and the Labour Party have already said before this debate that this Secretary of State can count on their full support, regardless of his answers. The Secretary of State said today that the Dijkstra motion was carried out. We still have doubts about that. Over and over again, we have expressed our doubts in this debate. The question before us is whether a motion of censure that will have no effect is best for the pgb-holders and their caregivers. D66 wants a good pgb. That is a discussion that has been going on for eighteen years and is entirely in line with my party's ideas: self-direction and self-determination. That good pgb system has not yet delivered this Secretary of State. At the moment, the people we are concerned with do not benefit from a political reckoning, but from paying their salary and getting their pgb. From now on, we must not lose a second, and we shall continue to follow it every second. The Secretary of State has asked us to rely on his judgment to resolve this chaos. Let him make that happen. For my group, however, this means that full responsibility for all the problems that will undoubtedly follow in the coming months will be borne by this Secretary of State and by the coalition which had already finished the judgment in advance. Whether this Secretary of State is a good director, as we have heard very often over the last few days, has not proved to be the case. That would have been him if he had stood up for delay in the autumn. All weighing up, D66 now opts for quick help for pgb holders. I would like to stress once again that this trade-off was a dime on his side. I will very much respect any member of this Chamber who feels otherwise about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u312	I'm a little remodeled. Two weeks ago, your group chairman went to lunch with the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Asscher. Then Mrs Dijkstra rushed to the arrangement of work to initiate this debate. We all know, because we have not only discussed it today, that the motion for a resolution on a regular system was very important to Mrs Dijkstra, but that has not been achieved by far. How are we supposed to explain this? Who still understands this twist of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u313	I have already indicated, and this has also been exchanged in the debate today, that it is not clear whether this motion has been implemented. We still have that question, but we have made a different assessment. We have made the assessment: if you are now tabling a motion of censure, what effect does that have? What's best for the pgb holders? With in mind the assurance that such a motion will not lead to the resignation of the Secretary of State, because he has the full support of the coalition, we have chosen to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u314	There's not much more we can do about it. The motion called for a regular system. Mrs Dijkstra says that this is there, while there is no more than an emergency system, with which tens of thousands of caregivers work hard because citizens still do not get their money in time. D66 suddenly explains that as a motion that was almost passed. We all know it's 180 degrees different from what's in that motion, but apparently everything that we can't see has happened behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u315	I didn't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u316	If you file a motion with a deadline and that deadline is not met, it is very strange that you do not have any consequences. Mrs Dijkstra says she now wants rapid help for budget holders. What guarantees has she heard in this debate about rapid aid to budget holders? Did I miss something? Has there been any part of the answer I didn't follow? I didn't hear it, but maybe D66 did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u317	As I said, we are certainly having consequences for the debate we have had today. We still have doubts about this motion, but we have a responsibility to the coalition for it. We have also weighed what the pgb-holders are best helped with. Is that a change in the ministry, or is that a ministry that knows very well that now needs to be worked very hard to ensure that this is sorted out as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u318	We are holding the sixth debate. We have said several times that it was the last chance for the Secretary of State. The sharpest statement on that last opportunity was from D66 in the motion, namely that it had to be settled on 15 May. And now D66 once again gives the last chance to the Secretary of State. I hope D66 understands that this will seriously damage confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u319	About a year ago, we had a debate here about Minister Plasterk. Then there was also, with full knowledge that PvdA and VVD would not support that motion, a motion tabled by D66 against Minister Plasterk. In itself, I find it remarkable that D66 is now arguing this argument. The Dijkstra motion is what the debate was about today. I still see Mrs Dijkstra standing and saying: I want to know if my motion has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u320	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u321	Is this motion now being carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u322	I have already answered other questions. I still have serious doubts as to whether it has been implemented, but I cannot say with 100% certainty that it has not been carried out. That is the whole dilemma we face today. I would be delighted if my colleagues in the Chamber would understand that, considering everything, what we are doing here is heavier than a motion of censure that has no effect. We put it to the coalition and to the Secretary of State to find a solution to this in no time and to resolve this chaos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u323	But that's what we're gonna do anyway, isn't it? Surely this consideration doesn't matter? We have a secretary of state who says he executed the motion, but he can't prove it. If you look at the points of the march route, he can't make it clear that he's kept it. D66 said he really wanted to know this this afternoon, because that was the question for her, but she is now saying that the motion does not really matter very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u324	Obviously, I'm not saying that at all. I'm just saying that this motion is very important. Nor can I say that the motion has been carried out 100% if it has not been carried out. This has also been an important element in this debate for us. For us, above all, we have asked the question from the beginning: what does it mean if we have this debate as it is completely established in advance, without listening to the answers, what will the outcome be, when it comes to the coalition parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u325	Mr. Chairman. Today we are holding the sixth debate on payout problems in the personal budget. It has become clear that the Secretary of State failed to inform us in 2014 of the serious signals that the implementation would not work out. With this he took away the opportunity to protect budget holders and caregivers from the major problems that have arisen since 1 January. People can't pay their rent or mortgage, they have to borrow money from neighbors or parents, just doing their job. There is enormous stress and uncertainty among budget holders. People have to call endlessly or show themselves in the media to get their money. It's to be ashamed of you, and yet the Secretary of State says he's here to solve the problems. He didn't stop the trouble while he could. He denied the problems so far. He came up with figures that didn't seem to match reality. Now that much has come out and there is a devastating opinion of the General Court, including a clear reconstruction, we are five months away. The problem has not been solved and cannot be solved for the time being. There will be no intermediate solution. We really don't buy anything for excuses. We're empty-handed. I think this Secretary of State should take his responsibility and quit. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of the right of draw as of 1 January 2015 has been careless;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives has not been informed in a timely and complete manner of the progress and implementation problems of the right to draw;]] [[declares confidence in the Secretary of State of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Keijzer and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-176]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u326	Mr. Chairman. It was a serious and serious debate and it was also about something. The CDA asked why the Secretary of State did not inform the Chamber last year about all the negative signals he received. Today it has become clear that he felt that this was not necessary. According to the Court of Auditors, the Secretary of State acted carelessly. The Secretary of State says that he underestimated the adverse consequences and major problems for budget holders. The CDA believes that he has acted hastily. He has thrown too many tasks over the fence in too short a time, towards all kinds of organizations. In any event, the fact that the data were not transmitted in time is proof of this. The Secretary of State expressed regret today about the way in which it has gone, but not about what he has done. The question was raised as to whether the payment regime would be in a regular manner on 15 May. The answer to this can only be no. Not only because we all receive daily e-mails and letters with examples of how wrong it is, but also because the sample on which the Secretary of State based himself, when he said that the promised result had been achieved, cannot support this statement but then maintains that it is. All this means that the CDA has co-signed the motion of the SP and renounces confidence in the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u327	Mr. Chairman. I don't know, but I've been walking in this house for a while now and things used to be different. A ruler who had withheld pieces from the Chamber would enter space here curved and go deep, deep through the dust. Secretary of State Van Rijn came by failing to fully inform even in great trouble, but thinks that he should be able to determine which documents he sends or does not send to the Chamber. How can we still carry out our basic task, our controlling task? Is someone who doesn't feel right in the right place? I don't think so. Tens of thousands of caregivers were duped because he secretly continued with the introduction of the right to draw, even though the signals were red. And then he says: yes, but a motion on getting information was rejected. A ruler must understand that there should be no motion for such a thing as information at all. What's the situation now? There was a system for the payout. That was supposed to work on 1 January of this year, but it didn't work. Half of 320,000 payouts went into soup. At that time, the Chamber wanted a regular system to be in place on 15 May, but that was not possible either. Subsequently, the victims were still intimidated by the Social Insurance Bank. Of this, Secretary of State Klijnsma said she had solved the problem, but the board is still there. Many, many times we heard Secretary of State Van Rijn say during the legal process that he wanted to have the broadest possible support for his health care reforms in the House of Representatives, otherwise it would be pointless for him. I ask him: what now, while he also loses the support of the CDA and of GroenLinks? Is that support still broad enough for the Secretary of State? He should have apologized and honored himself. He should have compared it to the Bulgarian fraud, but he didn't. I'd like to file another motion. I have no choice but to read it quickly, because I see my time is running out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SVB contractually prohibited caregivers from reporting negative about the failing policy on penalty of non-payment of their income;]] [[noting that the SVB has also put pressure on healthcare providers to report positively on the failing policies;]] [[noting that the SVB is under the direct responsibility of the Government;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Board of Directors of the SVB is dismissed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-177]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u328	Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues for their warm welcome to my return. I have not even been asked to co-sign their motion, but it is clear that my group will support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u329	Mr. Chairman. We have been talking all day about the problems with the right to draw, the problems that budget holders and their caregivers are hitting hard and which are still far from being resolved. It is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State has today acknowledged that things have just not gone well. My group would like to see much more action for the group of unaffordable declarations. Only last week the Secretary of State instructed the SVB to investigate this. The rapid response team is being set up, but what's new? What else is the Secretary of State going to do to get this critical group out of the system? The system itself should also be much higher on the list of State Secretary. We've heard far too little about it from the Secretary of State. This really is the key to solving the problems. When can the Secretary of State share his plans with the Chamber? How's the recovery plan going? The Secretary of State does not want to commit to a date when the problems have been resolved, but what are the data from the recovery plan still worth? Much remains to be done in the interests of budget holders. Today, however, the political question is also on the table. The Christian Union Group really needed the debate today in order to form an opinion on this. The Secretary of State has shown a different attitude today. The pain that's there has also come on the table. The Secretary of State is responsible for this and he acknowledges that. We can see that a lot of things are now being picked up to solve the chaos, step by step. We want this to continue vigorously now, in the interests of the budget holders and their caregivers. We would therefore like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to do this job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u330	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I asked the Secretary of State three questions. He has responded, but has he also answered the questions satisfactorily? Firstly, I respond to the Court's conclusions and recommendations. Compared with the government's written response to the Court's report, its embrace in this debate is slightly less economical. After long questions, the Secretary of State indicated that he indeed shares the recommendations, although he does not agree with the analysis. Apparently, it's hard to say, yes, we didn't do this right. My second question was: how does the Secretary of State judge the way he informed the Chamber? Was it too rosy? The Secretary of State indicates the signals that were there to have recognized and acted upon. There have also been times when the Chamber was informed. But that is without prejudice to the fact that he didn't report the signals that it wouldn't work out to the Chamber, even though he knew the Chamber had serious concerns. It would have been more likely to actively inform and give the Chamber the choice to decide on a go or a no-go. The feeling that it could succeed was apparently sufficient to take the risk that it would not succeed. And with that, gambled and lost over the backs of pgb caregivers. Speed weighed more than care. After the introduction it did not improve. The Secretary of State kept pretending that things were going well and that the problems were over. This was not the case over and over again. And that he's still holding on to that, weighs heavily on me. Thirdly, today's main question is: is the Dijkstra c.s. motion? Well executed? That remains a question we cannot simply say yes to. The Secretary of State concludes on the route that he has complied with the result obligation and has therefore carried out the motion. I do not want to walk past all the points of the march route, but to give you an example: point 1b. The Secretary of State says that all correct declarations received from April have been paid to the correct healthcare provider within ten working days. But the Secretary of State's sample was about the paid claims. I have not heard a satisfactory answer to the question of how the unpaid declarations are going. We just don't know that. The Secretary of State also admits that he has no control over this group. But that makes it incomprehensible that he does not even want to admit that he does not know whether the motion has been properly implemented. I don't think I can explain that to the pgb holders either. In order to solve the problems of budget holders, you must be able to recognise honestly what has not been done properly so far. Then you must be able to honestly acknowledge that you were too optimistic towards the Chamber. Then you must be able to take painful analyses and you must be able to justify your claim that you have carried out a motion that aims to solve the problems, with facts. And if you can't, say it! But this Secretary of State can't do that. The failure on those three points is already reprehensible, but there is also the question of whether you can help budget holders if you cannot acknowledge what has been done wrong by you. GroenLinks has given the chance of a chance, but is now full. Unfortunately, therefore, we are forced to support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u331	Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank both Secretary of State for replying. The debate today, as far as the SGP Group is concerned, was also very much about ministerial responsibility. A member of the Board of Directors shall be accountable to the Board of Directors, which shall be liable for risk, not liability, and shall also be accountable if he is not personally accused. The core of this responsibility is explaining, defending the policies pursued, but also recognising misfires and taking measures to prevent further misfires. That's what happened today. That's why I thought it was a good debate. Looking back we talked about what went wrong with the introduction: error of assessment, signals not picked up enough. There have been lessons learned. We need to pay even more attention to the execution test, we need to scale up sooner. It is important that these lessons are learned. Then there is the question: how are the payments now? The conclusion is: better, but not good enough. The problems are also more persistent than we hoped. It is incredibly important that the remaining problems be resolved swiftly. We've heard a very clear story about that. It also weighs heavily on the future commitment to further improvements and, above all, simplifications of the system, without compromising existing payments. The rule of confidence is, in addition to ministerial responsibility, the second cornerstone of parliamentary democracy. That is the question: do a minister and a secretary of state still have the confidence of parliament? For the SGP Group, the question of trust is not raised in this debate, because the problems have been recognised and taken seriously and because measures are being taken to give back the direction of the budget holders. That's what matters. For us, the question of control is: does it help if you support a motion of confidence and if you put the Secretary of State on watch money? Will the budget holders get their money faster? No. It is true that the pgb ship has fallen into heavy weather, but it does not help to send away an experienced captain. The relationship of trust with society is not relevant under state law, but is socially incredibly important. On the basis of all the e-mails we have received and the conversations we have had in recent times, I note that a lot of budget holders have had a huge dent in their confidence in the government. My question to the Secretary of State remains as to how he intends to re-establish that damaged trust from society and from the budget holders, including by making the human measure of repairing problems heavy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u332	Madam President. 50PLUS also considers it necessary to state that the highest priority should be to solve the problems. D66 thinks sending the Secretary of State away doesn't help the budget holders. Maybe that's true; we don't know that. It is a very common parliamentary signal. You also want to show clearly that a licence of inability is urgently needed. That's why I'm filing the next, somewhat unusual motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the import of drawing rights has run counter to a debacle;]] [[Whereas the recovery has been taking months and will certainly take months;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State for VWS has proved insufficient to address the problems adequately;]] [[calls on the Government to transfer responsibility for the import drawing rights dossier from the Secretary of State of VWS to the Minister of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-178]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u333	Then there are two substantive motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many have suffered financial damage as a result of the import of drawing rights;]] [[whereas a compensation scheme is being developed but is not expected until after the summer;]] [[Whereas those who have suffered damage need clarity in the shortest possible time;]] [[calls on the Government to send the compensation scheme to the Chamber before 1 August 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of drawing rights leads to much more costs for municipalities;]] [[Whereas this, calculated from data from the municipality of Groningen, may amount to more than EUR 100 million;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State has undertaken to examine the amount of these additional costs;]] [[Calls on the Government to send this investigation to the Chamber before 1 August 2015;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate how these additional costs are included in the budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-179]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25657-180]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u334	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both Secretary of State for their very comprehensive response and commitments. The interest association of budget holders also states that the Secretary of State of VWS made a number of important commitments during this debate to move forward. For them we finally do it: the budget holders. They were the subject of this debate. It was about the problems they're facing right now. The Secretary of State is working hard to really tackle and solve these problems. We also see a big leap forward. Budget holders therefore have the most to solve the remaining problems and make the right of draw easier. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to work with budget holders and simplify the right to draw, so that everyone with a personal budget can keep a grip on their own care and on their own lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u335	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed answer to the questions. I share the conclusions of EenVandaag earlier today that leaving is not a solution, despite all the problems with the payment of the pgb declarations. It is clear that Secretary of State Van Rijn is responsible, but will the problems with the pgb system be resolved with the resignation of the Secretary of State? The Secretary of State has made mistakes and recognizes this equestrian. If you're in shit, you're gonna have to clean it up yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u336	Mr. Chairman. We have had a very strong but also very good debate today. I would like to emphasise once again how annoying it is for the people at home, the caregivers and the budget holders that they have got into trouble. For the VVD it has always been extremely important for problems to be solved quickly and decisively. At the heart of today's debate was the question of whether the Dijkstra motion was fulfilled, which sets 15 May as the deadline for the payment to function on a regular basis. I think that's become clear. The Secretary of State has made it clear that the system is stable, that it is functioning and that we can proceed with it. The second question from the VVD Group was whether the non-affordable declarations are in the picture. Are they in the working stock of 18,000 and, if so, are they quickly arrested? The answer was also clear. The Secretary of State has clearly stated that they are in the picture, that they are in the work stock and that he is going to work with it. As far as the VVD is concerned, this has provided sufficient answers to the questions we have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u337	Mr. Chairman. During this debate, the Secretary of State mentioned the decision to introduce the new payout system as from 1 January as not a good decision. The emergency scenarios have not proved sufficient and the mess we are dealing with today is the result. A tragedy for all the people involved. The core of the problem is ICT quality in government. As already stated, police, defense, tax administration and now the pgb; all ICT debacles and all disrupting at its core. Over and over again, there appears to be no improvement. Thousands of people are now in the water and politically the Secretary of State is responsible for this. We shall therefore support the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u338	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank all Members for their contributions. We have had a long and intensive debate, in which we have looked back at how it all happened and looked at the current state of affairs and what we have to do in the coming period. It is clear that a number of things have not gone well. Not only must we learn from this, but we must also ensure that they are resolved as quickly as possible. At the beginning of my speech, I said it was incredibly important to think that personal budgets become an integral part of the new healthcare system, not because of the system or because of the numbers, but because we have been able to see every day, every month and every year that personal budgets for a lot of people determine the quality of life definitively. Often after very long searches to take care of your child, for yourself for your relatives, such a personalized budget is very essential. We have also talked about how we can remove and alleviate the pain of not being properly introduced. I feel incredibly motivated in two ways to anchor the personal budgets after eighteen years of discussion about their certainty and about the extent of abuse and misuse at the expense of budget holders with a safe, solid and reliable system in the new healthcare system. Now I know that the problems of introduction did not immediately lead to a great deal of confidence that it will work out. We can only work very hard to ensure that short-term problems are resolved and that long-term problems are taken into account. We must also listen carefully to the budget holders who say: 'Shouldn't it be simpler? Should we not ensure that, especially in the long term, we have a simpler and more reliable system?" I am very committed to that. A number of questions have been asked. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union asked about the recovery plan. The chain directors are working on it. They are working step by step to see which actions need to be implemented and to ensure that we do so in good balance with the priority of payment and the priority of restoring. I have good hope that before the summer recess we can send that recovery plan of the chain directors to the Chamber. It will make it clear that we are going to make that improvement step by step. I felt very motivated by Mrs Dik-Faber's comment to get an insight into the working stock of the 'difficult declarations' as soon as possible. We will work very hard on that. The Social Insurance Bank is working on it and I will inform you about it as soon as possible. I would point out that, over the coming months, we will also ensure that there will be periodic reports of progress every month, I believe, on all the actions we are taking to restore payments and improve them. This will be accompanied by simplifications. I now come to an explanation of the various motions. The motion-Leijten c.s. in piece No. 176 is a call to the Chamber. I made the mistake of judging it last time. I won't do that this time. The motion-Agema in part No. 177 will be explained by my colleague. Then I come to the Krol motion on part No. 178 in which the government is asked to transfer responsibility for the file from the Secretary of State of VWS to the Minister of VWS. An attractive motion in itself, but I would strongly advise against it. I have already said that I feel very motivated, not only to anchor the pgb in the new system, but above all to ensure that the budget holders can rely on the payments that are just going to take place. I am more motivated than ever to bring that to a successful conclusion. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the Krol motion on part No. 179 the Government is requested to send the compensation scheme to the Chamber by 1 August 2015. I would also advise against that motion. Not because I am not in a hurry, but because I have asked the chain directors, given the advice they have just given, to come up quickly with an impact regulation. I would like to give them the opportunity to do this carefully so that they can come up with a good opinion. If it's okay for August 1st, I'll definitely do it. But I want to be guided by the findings of the chain directors surrounding this arrangement. In the Krol motion on part No. 180 the government is invited to indicate how the additional costs are included in the budget. I said earlier that we had already given compensation to the municipalities for the various implementation costs of decentralisation. It's got the pgbs in it, too. I've been willing to see what the extra costs are. I do not know whether we will see in August the total additional costs that will be required to do so. I've already promised to do this investigation. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Finally, Mr President. I have said that I am very motivated to finally, after so many years, make the personal budget a permanent part of the new healthcare system. But I am even more motivated to solve the problems that have arisen with regard to payments, which have caused so incredibly much pain to the budget holders and the caregivers, as quickly as possible. I hope and understand from Mrs Dijkstra's words that this could bind us not only now but also in the future. It is not just a matter of ensuring that the problems are resolved, but, above all, of ensuring that the anchoring of the personal budget in the system for budget holders is a safe and sound way in which they can rely. We must not lose a second. We must ensure that this happens as soon as possible. We must also work towards further simplification. We must also work towards trust and restoration of trust. I can only do that with our people and with the Social Insurance Bank by ensuring that the problems that have been solved are solved, by having individual contacts where it is necessary and by working very closely with, for example, Per Balance, where it is necessary, to ensure that we are able to hear and bring the wishes of the budget holders into the system as well as possible. We must not be ashamed of the patience and stamina that we have asked budget holders and carers to get through this period well. We must ensure that payments are made on a regular basis as soon as possible. I am and remain very motivated to work on a solution. I also appreciate the fact that a majority of the Chamber gives me the opportunity to resolve these problems, including with a view to the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u339	Mr. Chairman. There is one motion I would like to respond to after I have also thanked the Chamber for the second term. In the PVV motion, the SVB's board of directors is asked to be dismissed because a one-off agreement has been concluded between a healthcare provider and the SVB, a part of which is really not acceptable. The board of directors is very much in my opinion and has also acted immediately. I am committed to expressing the utmost confidence in the SVB from this place too, who, under the inspiring leadership of the board of directors, is doing everything possible to provide adequate help to health care professionals and budget holders. The members of the board know that these people are absolutely central and need to be helped very quickly. The SVBs are very motivated. By the way, we all are. All chain partners are, too. I am quite sure that we, as the Parliament, will be able to see that representatives of the SVB sit in the gallery and all of us will be able to find the right solutions to this. In short, I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u340	This brought an end to the government's second term. I have a brief comment to make. In the first term, I considered that the Secretary of State of VWS had quoted a confidential document for inspection. I read this back in the Acts and it turned out not to be so. I think it is appropriate to correct this for the Acts as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-7.u341	In 15 minutes we shall be voting on the motions tabled.
