ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, Trouw opened with the message that the UWV stops fined fraudsters. Let me say first of all that it is an impassable road for the VVD. Fraud must never pay. Fraud must be punished and we therefore expect the Minister to ensure that the UWV implements the Fraud Act and continues to tackle fraud. From July onwards, the Law enters into work and security. It is a profit that the UWV then offsets wages with the benefit. The VVD has always argued in favour of this prevention of fraud. We are pleased that mistakes can be avoided. Saves a lot of people time. Then the fraud law does not need to be amended. The UWV must continue to enforce undeclared work and fail to comply with the application requirement. What the UWV now states in the message, namely that one no longer wants to punish people, is absolutely impossible. I have the following questions. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that fraud should never pay? And if so, how does he ensure that the UWV continues to enforce the Fraud Act after 1 July? Is there still a duty after 1 July to give up the right income and information on applications for a WW benefit, and is this duty also maintained by the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. That's right, fraud shouldn't pay off. This is an incredibly important starting point, also for the support of our social security. As from 1 July, the declared earnings on wages are automatically compared with the policy administrations at the UWV. This is a major improvement, which the VVD has argued for, among other things. If one has then given up the wrong income, it can automatically be offset so that it cannot pay. Of course, the UWV will remain in place after 1 July. Income other than wages, such as income from undeclared work,zzp income and income from abroad, must be correctly reported. Otherwise, there will be a penalty. The obligation to provide information therefore remains. This Chamber has unanimously said that you should not automatically impose fines on people in the event of mistakes. So there is no fine for that either, and the Chamber knows that. In the debate on 8 April, in which it was about the changes on 1 July and the automatic set-off, it was Mr Van Weyenberg who asked me to say that the UWV would not impose a fine if, for example, you accidentally give up your gross wage instead of your SV wage. In the beginning that will happen, because the pay slips are complex. At that time, I promised that there would be no penalty. Everyone agrees on that. Fraud must be combated and mistakes corrected. We ensure that it is automatically settled into an effective system and with support for our social security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u3	I thank the Minister for these clear answers. In fact, they are correct, but unfortunately the picture has emerged that the UWV does not want to maintain fraud instead of preventing UWV fraud, as the minister just said. I have a few more questions about this. How could it have gone so wrong in the communication of the UWV that this policy has been interpreted as not wanting to maintain rather than preventing fraud? And why did it take two and a half days until last night, before the minister and also the UWV themselves responded to the message from the UWV? Why didn't the Minister himself take the immediate initiative to correct the message? After all, it has caused a great deal of unrest and that could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u4	That's right, that's not a good image. That is why I am grateful for this question. Fraud does not pay and will not pay after 1 July. The UWV will continue to be strict with people who try to cheat with black work. People who make a mistake should not be fined after the system change on 1 July. Therefore, the UWV posted a message on the website indicating that the story was incomplete and partly incorrect. Could it have been faster? Maybe. It was precisely because it was also suggested that the Chamber was not informed that it was important that this was done carefully. I think the Chamber is entitled to that, too. I don't think I should go on the drum right away if there's a nasty piece in the paper somewhere. It therefore takes some time for a message to appear on the website. I am grateful for the opportunity to make it clear once again what our policies are like. The Chamber and the Cabinet are also very much in agreement. I assume that the unrest that may have arisen following these questions is a thing of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister's answers are very clear. A lot of people in the country have been troubled this weekend. In order to take that path, it might be appropriate for the Minister to confirm this in a letter explaining what the enforcement process will be as of 1 July. I think that we can continue to implement and enforce the Fraud Act as we have agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'd like to be willing to do that. The Chamber still owes me a letter on the changes on 1 July in the automatic revenue account when the Work and Security Act was introduced. For the sake of completeness, I will add the passages on enforcement, as I have also indicated to the Chamber. The letter will be sent to the Chamber within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mrs Schut spoke of unrest that has arisen. I believe that the unrest has arisen much earlier, namely in many people about the way in which the Fraud Act introduced by the previous cabinet was implemented. As the Minister said, there was no distinction between real fraudsters and people who no longer see the forest or make a mistake because of the trees. My group is extremely pleased with the relaxation of the law promised by the Minister, but I still have a question. When the Fraud Act was so strict and applied so strictly and did not distinguish between real fraudsters and people who accidentally made a mistake, many fines were imposed on that last category of people. My group would like that to be looked at again, that these fines should be reconsidered. Some communities do that spontaneously. How does the Minister view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u8	The Fraud Act was just applicable between 1 January 2013 and 22 November 2014. This means that until the decision of the Council of State the decisions of municipalities and executive bodies which were no longer open to objections and appeals are simply valid. Of course, municipalities are free to return to previous decisions. If the municipality of Leeuwarden does so, then the municipality of Leeuwarden must do so. The municipality has to pay that for itself, because it is a fine that has been collected there and that one wants to give back without obligation, but that is up to the municipality of Leeuwarden. In a letter to the Chamber, I indicated that I had weighed the advantages and disadvantages of revision and that I had come to the conclusion that it was not obvious, that it was not reasonable. It would also be very valuable. With the changes that have been made following the decision of the Council of State, we keep a balance in strict fraud enforcement and fair dealing with people who are wrong. This means that we have not made this choice at the level of the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-02-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
