ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would again like to welcome everyone in the Chamber, including the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. Five speakers have spoken for this debate. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mrs Helder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Because there appears to be a cell surplus in the Netherlands and a cell shortage in Norway, the Dutch government has agreed with the Norwegian government to use a Dutch prison for the execution of Norwegian custodial sentences. The bill we are discussing today aims to approve the treaty between the Netherlands and Norway whereby the Penitentiary Institution Veenhuizen, site Norgerhaven, will be made available to the Norwegians. The Netherlands will make available to Norway Norgerhaven for payment and will continue to manage the prison. Following ratification of the Convention, 242 Norwegian detainees will be placed here. Norway will use Norgerhaven to implement prison sentences imposed in Norway in accordance with the rules of Norwegian law and under the direction of a Norwegian Executive Board. Norgerhaven remains a Dutch prison, which is temporarily given a special use destination. First of all, I would like to point out that the trend of the cell surplus in the Netherlands is the result of still far too low a chance of getting caught, wrong policies and, as far as my group is concerned, weak penalties. At the time of parole, the waiting lists become longer and longer, as a result of the high number of community service sentences imposed. This trend is a completely wrong one. In addition, this sends out a wrong signal to the victims and to society. By making the prison available to Norway, 239 FTE of DJI personnel in the Northeast region are guaranteed for the duration of the treaty with Norway. Of course, my group is in favour of maintaining employment, but seriously wonders whether this detention capacity should not be better available to Dutch detainees. Not so long ago, we held a number of debates on the many thousands of sentenced people who have been sentenced to custodial sentences but who are still free to go. If it is up to my group, the chance of getting caught will increase considerably, the community service will be removed as a main sentence, less conditional penalties will be imposed and minimum penalties will be introduced. In any case, we would no longer have a cell surplus in the Netherlands, nor would we have to close, rent or fill our prisons out of pure poverty with prisoners from other countries. Last week figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics showed that 60% of the prisoners in the Netherlands have an ethnic origin. In the report accompanying this legislative proposal, my group asked how many of the prisoners to be transferred have another nationality besides Norwegian nationality. The Secretary of State could not answer that question at the time, but he indicated that there is expected to be more clarity about this in the summer. Is he willing to share this information with the Chamber as soon as it is available? Although my group is still opposed to this agreement, my group would like to know what kind of meat we are bringing in, popularly said. These aren't guys who have been fighting at marbles, they're criminals who have a background in sex crimes, violent crimes and drug offences. That brings me straight to the next point. Bringing in prisoners also brings in other risks, such as the chance of an escape. My group believes that if a Norwegian inmate escapes from the Netherlands, he should be returned to Norway, of course at his own expense or at the expense of the Norwegian Government. In the report accompanying the bill, the Secretary of State states that once an escape attempt has been made, the risk that someone else will try to do so will not be reduced. So the question that my group has put remains. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send Norwegian prisoners who successfully escape or attempt to do so back to Norway as soon as they are arrested? I'd like to hear a reaction to this. The Secretary of State also states that the amount paid by Norway is cost-effective. This means that the Netherlands will not contribute to the cost of maintaining the prison during the duration of the Convention. This does not mean that the safety chain will not incur any additional costs. I told you, if a Norwegian prisoner escapes, the police must of course pull out and there will be costs incurred. The Norwegian government itself pays the transport costs of the Norwegian prisoners, both in the Netherlands and by plane towards Norway, but not the search costs. Is the Secretary of State prepared to recover any search costs or other associated costs from the inmate or otherwise from the Norwegian government? We are dealing here with legislative proposals so that we can do the same with our own prisoners. For my group, it is unacceptable that these costs should be borne by the Dutch taxpayer. I'm rounding up. Depending on the answers to the questions, my group will consider, for the sake of completeness, whether this bill can be accepted, but there is little chance that the Secretary of State will be able to convince my group. As long as only one person sentenced to prison is free in the Netherlands, priority should be given to filling empty prisons and not to taking prisoners from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. After the collaboration between Belgium and the Netherlands by placing Belgian prisoners in prison in Tilburg, this treaty is also a unique agreement that is not known anywhere else in the world. Norway is going 242 prisoners in prison Norgerhaven places. The CDA Group wholeheartedly supports this, especially as it preserves many jobs in the North East region of the Netherlands. It's 239 FTE of DJI personnel. That is a good thing. The Secretary of State is therefore to be congratulated on the conclusion of this agreement. At the same time, our group still has a number of questions about this treaty, precisely because it is such a unique agreement. The execution of sentences for Norwegian prisoners takes place in the Netherlands, but under Norwegian law. The Secretary of State states that it is not to be expected, but it is precisely when annoying situations such as escapes or riots in the establishment would occur that it is good to know exactly what the role and position of the Dutch government is. To begin with, it is not excluded that prisoners from Norway will apply for asylum on Dutch territory. The Secretary of State states that a key consideration for Norway is precisely to send citizens of EU Member States to Poland, Lithuania and Romania to the Netherlands, but also prisoners from third countries will be placed in the Netherlands. The advantage for the Norwegians is that in general there is no need to visit Norway, so placement in the Netherlands on this point is desirable for the Norwegian prison system. We understand that, but we don't want any fuss about it. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many prisoners from countries other than Norway will be involved? Which third countries from which prisoners from Norway will be placed in the Netherlands is it exactly? The CDA Group is asking for this because although asylum applications will have little chance of success in relation to, among other things, the Dublin Regulation, it must be avoided that the IND is unnecessarily burdened with asylum applications from Norge Port. You can't avoid that by sending them back to Norway two months before their release. Does the Secretary of State share this opinion? Can he indicate whether the Norwegian authorities pay explicit attention to this, for example by informing the transferred prisoners from countries other than Norway in advance that applications for asylum have little chance of success in the Netherlands? I'd like to get a response. The transfer of detainees currently in custody in Norge Port is scheduled for 1 July. Does it all work out to your liking? Are you all right? What is the state of play with regard to the six appeals brought by long and life sentences in Norway? Finally. It is a small country and it is even a small step from Norgerhaven to Tilburg, but I will allow myself to mention it. It hurts to note that the prison in Tilburg is closed as a result of the master plan. The CDA Group would like the Secretary of State to fight for the last opportunity to maintain employment in this region too and, in that context, to extend the treaty with the Belgians. Is it already known whether the Belgian Minister of Justice will continue to use Tilburg in 2016 and what the possibilities will be after 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. Cells as an export product and detention as a market: that sounds crazy, but it is essentially what we are talking about today. Society is becoming safer and there are fewer cells for Dutch prisoners. Because of this surplus, the intention was to close a number of prisons, but our neighbouring countries do need cells. After Belgium, Norway is also knocking on our door. In times when there is a lot of uncertainty among prison staff about their future, this covenant provides, as far as my party is concerned, a guarantee of employment for a period of three years. The PvdA can agree to this bill. As far as my party is concerned, this approval law contributes mainly to the provision of employment for staff in prisons in Veenhuizen. By including the prisoners from Belgium and now back from Norway in our cells, more prison staff can remain employed. Otherwise, the appointments in the Master Plan DJI would require that these staff seek a different position. We now have agreements for three years and 239 jobs. It is also a rather unique situation that I believe this Secretary of State is the first to use the possibility of concluding the law as a matter of urgency by letter of amendment and not leaving room for a referendum on this law. Mr Fokke, one of the proposers of the initiative, might have liked this to be different, but in this particular case I can imagine that she would agree to the request made by the Secretary of State. It is important for everyone that this Convention should enter into force as soon as possible. My party still has a number of concerns. I understand from the answer given by the Secretary of State that these jobs are not covered by the Master Plan DJI and therefore employees cannot use the work-to-work programme either. I think that is undesirable and I express my concern about that. What are we going to do when this situation and cooperation with the Norwegians ends after three years? Then what happens to these 239 jobs? As the Secretary of State says in the note on the report itself, this is a region where employment prospects are not positive. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether and, if so, how employment for staff is looked at after this period? The possibilities for visiting the Norwegian prisoners in Veenhuizen will be limited by distance. My party has previously been hard on the position of children of inmates in particular. As far as we are concerned, they must not be punished for their parents' mistakes. I am pleased that the selection of Norwegian prisoners transferred to Veenhuizen takes into account personal circumstances, such as children remaining behind. However, to what extent is the potential negative effects of limited visits taken into account, e.g. for the development of psychiatric complaints of detainees? I am talking in particular about the risks of suicide, because our medical service is basically responsible. I imagine this has been discussed with the medical service. Can the Secretary of State respond to this? Another concern is the transport of prisoners from Norway to the Netherlands. The transportation of prisoners is normally done by the Transport and Support Service of DJI and that is never a problem. This service is responsible for transferring the prisoners from the airport to Veenhuizen, but this is not normal transportation. How is it possible to prevent the transport of prisoners, whether in groups or not, from becoming problematic? Is there additional security of the KMar, for example? Can the Secretary of State indicate how many inmates per flight we're talking about? Is the airport suitable for this group of inmates? Can they indeed be prevented from being excluded from supervision? In the note following the report, the Secretary of State refers to the important elements of the execution of prison sentences in Norway, i.e. the principle of standardisation, the phasing-out of detention aimed at return to society. Can the Secretary of State indicate who is responsible for the education of the inmates? Is that the Netherlands or Norway and is the type of education that Norwegian prisoners receive comparable to the way in which prisoners are educated in the Netherlands? Mr Oskam also referred to it, but is there any insight into the appeal ruling of the Dutch prisoners who are now in Veenhuizen and who have indicated that they do not want to leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is now about two years since we discussed the demolition plan for the prison system in the House of Representatives. Do you remember? 23 establishments had to be closed, 2 large tbs facilities and 1,200 well-trained employees had to leave, but a new megabals is being built. Without any substantive motivation, more people are being put together. In doing so, no thought is given to what this means for security inside and outside detention. As a result, there is a lot of detention capacity left in the Netherlands. If this cabinet's austerity drive continues and cuts are being made on the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, I would not be surprised if we may have a lot more detention capacity in the future. This is not the SP's choice. We have already had this debate here with the previous Secretary of State. I, my colleagues, the workplace and directors all suggested alternatives at that time. Unfortunately, they went into the trash. Not the emptiness itself but especially the loss of all those well-trained personnel was the biggest pain of that entire destruction plan prison system. So the former Secretary of State went in very understandable search for a solution. He found it in the treaty with Norway. 242 Norwegian prisoners can go if the treaty is approved by the Chamber to the Netherlands. In the demolition plan, 1,200 men had to leave well-trained personnel. How many staff can this treaty keep? Anyone who has read the contribution of the SP on this treaty can see that it is critical. It is not critical of the issue of employment, because let us be clear: we are very satisfied and very pleased with it. However, the SP is a fierce opponent of the destruction of the prison system as it has been set in motion. In addition, during the working visit in Norway and in discussions with our Norwegian colleagues, especially the left-wing colleagues, and experts, we also heard concerns that my group can understand somewhat. We would like to present them to the Secretary of State. Where's the border? We had all the Belgian prisoners in Tilburg. That was an exception at the time. Now there is another exception, namely the Norwegian prisoners in Veenhuizen. According to the Secretary of State, where's the border? Are there any other plans? How does the exploitation of prisoners relate to the right of a state to imprison people on its territory? How great is the risk that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will take a negative view of this? Can the Secretary of State comment on this? To what extent does Norway provide a solution in its own country to eliminate its own waiting lists? To what extent are there agreements on this? I ask these questions because I would like to hear from the Secretary of State that the principle should be that each country should house its own prisoners and lock up its own criminals. I would like a clear statement from the Secretary of State on this. It is also desirable for resocialisation to take place as much as possible in the healthy network of a detainee. Norway-Netherlands is quite a distance. I myself went to work in Norway and was very impressed by the Norwegian policy of rehabilitation. While, for example, this cabinet has broken down the open and semi-open institutions, it is one of the most important principles for them. They are based, for example, on the principle of normality, which my colleague in the Labour Party has already referred to. That's what it's all about. That's what it's about. That's what it's about. Detention phase is a very important part of this, but there is no question of phasing out detention in this treaty and in the Netherlands. How will the Secretary of State guarantee that the regime complies with the Norwegian principle of normality? I read in the Treaty that prisoners who start resocialisation, which includes residence outside the prison, are not transferred to the Netherlands. How exactly am I supposed to read this? Resocialisation also includes accompanied and unguided leave. Do these prisoners have no right to do so? There was also criticism from a different angle. The Human Rights College believes that the Dutch National Preventive Mechanism (NPM), which is part of the UN Convention against Torture, should be able to visit. The college says that it is Dutch territory, and therefore the Netherlands should also be able to supervise. On this point, the Secretary of State says, and I understand it, that the Norwegian NPM must supervise, since it is Norwegian punishments. I certainly follow the Secretary of State, but violence and coercive means are applied under Dutch regulations, because they are very well known to the staff. How are we supposed to reconcile this and how is the Norwegian NPM going to test this? How will Norway monitor the enforcement of the penalties? How am I supposed to imagine that? Can the Secretary of State help me with that? According to these plans, means of violence and coercion are applied under Dutch regulations. There will also be a Norwegian director, which I understand very well. Is he or she adequately trained in the rules on the use of these coercive measures? I'd like to get a commitment on this. As the CDA and the Labour Party have indicated, four long sentences are transferred to the PI Heerhugowaard. As the Secretary of State knows, there was and is much resistance from these long-term punishments. There's also an appeal. To what extent can the appeal obstruct this Convention? Can the Secretary of State report that? The previous Secretary of State was very clear. Veenhuizen stays open even when the Norwegians leave. I note that the new Secretary of State remains very cautious in answering our questions. He says that Norway wants to eliminate the waiting lists within three years but cannot guarantee that, and that is why it is possible to extend at least one year; if not, the p.i. is closed. Not planned in the master plan. I always get a little abdominal pain from this kind of vague language. That is why it would be very nice if the Secretary of State could say: if the Norwegians leave, Veenhuizen will simply remain open and the staff can rest assured that their job is certain. I will conclude with what many colleagues have already said to me: this treaty is a profit for employment. That is why I am closing in positively. We're very happy about it. However, it is a question of employment which, according to the SP, should not have been broken down. The Norwegians' choice for Veenhuizen does not surprise me at all. I think that many colleagues, perhaps also the Secretary of State, have a heart for Veenhuizen, because of its location, because of its history, because of the fact that there is an eye for resocialisation and because of the enormous use of staff there. I wish the staff very much success in their new task. I think the Norwegians can squeeze their hands with such motivated staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the documents, I sincerely believe that we can squeeze our hands with the deal before us. The Netherlands has a surplus of detention capacity, with all the associated costs and employment issues, and Norway has a deficit and is willing to bear all the costs, including personnel costs. If I relate that to the name Norgerhaven I have no clue what that means in Norwegian, but it sounds Norwegian then I think it coincides nicely. Following on from what colleagues have said, I have one comment which concerns me and on which I would like to put a question to the Secretary of State. I think Mr Oskam was also referring to the fact that a Norwegian prisoner without a valid residence permit in Norway took the opportunity to apply for asylum in the Netherlands. I am well aware that Norway is, of course, a safe country, and according to all the commitments it has undoubtedly entered into, it is typically the kind of country that would be able to settle such an asylum application perfectly. Nevertheless, I can imagine that the two-month period mentioned in the note on the report is just a little short. There is now a two-month deadline within which all prisoners return to Norway. If I relate this to the lead times that sometimes occur in asylum procedures, I wonder whether that period should not be a little longer. At that time I thought about whether I should make an amendment or something like that, but that is, of course, complicated. After all, it is a treaty, so that you also need the help of Norway. In any case, I would like to prevent the thought that has arisen to me from succumbing to all the charities that this proposal stands for. That is why I have read the Treaty again very critically. I read in one of the articles about the two-month period, but this is preceded by the words 'at least'. It must therefore be done at least two months in advance. My question to the Secretary of State is whether, specifically for categories of prisoners in whom the situation may arise that the treatment of the asylum procedure will interfere with the return to Norway, the Norwegian-Dutch prison board should not take this into account, so that those specific Norwegians will return just a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Van Oosten. This has put an end to the first term of office. The Secretary of State needs some time to prepare for his answers. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased to be able to talk about this treaty now. I am also pleased that the Chamber has been involved in the speedy handling of this matter. For example, we can manage this with our Norwegian friends, provided, of course, that the Chamber finally agrees to this treaty. The treaty provides that we make available to the prison Norgerhaven and the staff for the execution of Norwegian sentences in accordance with Norwegian law. That is, of course, a special project. The only people who already have experience with it are ourselves, but in Tilburg with the Belgians. It is a coincidence that Norway is short and we have room for manoeuvre. So we're helping each other, and that's a good thing. I am also very pleased that the Norwegians have made or are going to make this choice. The fact that we are ready for the Norwegians to consider this and implement it so seriously is a great compliment to everyone who works at the DJI, and more particularly at Norgerhaven. The question I start with, I just liked it best. I'm sorry, of course, I should never say that. That question was what Norgerhaven actually means. We checked. According to our Norwegian colleagues, it means the garden of Norway. In this case, of course, there is a fence around it, but still. I will now answer a number of questions from the Chamber in the order in which they were asked, and I will take them together where relevant. Mrs. Helder asked about the cost of the safety chain. We have not made provision for this with the Norwegian authorities. There are agreements about charges that you're sure they're in the p.i. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers is They'll be passed on. External costs and benefits are not included. We do not expect any substantial additional security costs because there would be an escape. Nor do we expect this to be the case in the case of transport. That is, of course, all agreed and covered. Mrs. Helder also asked what happens after an escape or an escape attempt. In all cases, those prisoners go back to Norway. There is already specific consideration of escape risks in the choice of who is to be placed under the Convention. In case of excessive risk, placement shall be refused. We have something to say about that ourselves. As a follow-up, the treaty also offers the opportunity to return prisoners if they actually attempt to escape. If such an escape is successful, there is still the regular extradition procedure and the prisoner goes after being caught back to Norway. Mrs Helder and Mr Oskam asked for information on the nationality of Norwegian detainees. I'm willing to share with the Chamber what their residence status is. I can't do that in advance, because those prisoners aren't there yet and there's no picture of who's coming. That will also rotate in time. The expectation is that with the rotation that the Norwegians themselves have in mind, people aren't sitting there for too long, that there aren't the same people for years. So after the placement, which was planned in September, I can provide that information in the autumn and we can see from which third countries the people come. Then we can see if there is a development in that which gives the Chamber the opportunity to ask further questions about this. Mrs Rebel asked a question about transport. In any case, this is not addressed by Norway in the way of "as many people as possible on an airplane." It's really being handled carefully. For the 242 prisoners, ten flights are scheduled, with 60 escorts per flight. The number of escorts exceeds the number of inmates. We expect it to be phased out. There won't be ten in one day. After September, when it starts to be full and there is rotation, we expect a maximum of ten per week. After getting off at the airport that is suitable for that in our eyes, they are transferred to DV&O under the responsibility of the KMar. Then the transport is carried out safely, according to the standards we use for this purpose. Mrs. Rebel asked, "How do we do with education once they're inside?" The education is taught and provided by Dutch staff. Soon it will be stated here: on 18 June there will be further consultation between our people and the Norwegian educational authorities on the content of education. The starting point is: basic education, supplemented by targeted training. This is also where the work is attuned. Mrs Rebel said: visiting is so naturally a bit tricky. That's gonna be a little trickier. Strikingly enough, for a prisoner with family in Oslo, flight time to Norgerhaven will be shorter than the flight time that would be available to a Norwegian detention center in northern Norway. They're used to distances. Of course, we have additional facilities for electronic contacts. That's a bit less warm, but Skype can offer a lot of solace as an alternative. We also employ volunteers: Dutch people who visit prisoners. And when visitors come over, there's room for that to happen in the next few days. The surroundings of Veenhuizen are already responding to that. There are also discount facilities for family who want to sit there in a hotel. With this I indicate that it is really a warm situation and that everyone outside is also doing their best to offer space. Mrs. Rebel and Mrs. Kooiman asked what the status after those three years is. Of course we hope that there will be a further extension after these three years. Furthermore, if that is not the case, the master plan does not foresee that Norgerhaven will be closed as part of the PI Veenhuizen. I can do two things now for after 2018. I can think for the cabinet and say: it stays open. Or I can think: I'm not going to rule over this cabinet period. If nothing changes, it won't close according to the current master plan. Of course, I can't see into the future either. It's a dynamic field. However, this master plan does not provide for closure. Mrs Rebel, Mr Oskam and Mrs Kooiman asked about the appeal of the people who are still sitting there and want to stay there. We ourselves are convinced of our position, but it is ultimately up to the judge. I can tell you something about the date. As far as we know, it will serve on 25 June. Usually you get a week or six clarity. It's up to the judge. We have faith in the case, but of course I can't speak to the judge. Mr Oskam asked about the practical effects. He himself mentioned July 1st, but is scheduled to start on September 1st. Parliamentary debate was scheduled for 8 June in Norway. We will do our best, if the House of Representatives has adopted this bill, to understand us with the First Chamber to deal with it as soon as possible. I'm available at night and at night, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u9	I have another question about the long-term punishments. It's gonna be a while before we have a ruling on the appeal. I understand the Secretary of State has every confidence in it. However, a number of colleagues and I specifically asked what effect this might have on this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u10	It will be a practical effect. I have now understood that a number of people who are on appeal are still considering taking places elsewhere. That's what's gonna happen. It is a 'what if' question that we are trying to avoid. We will then have practical implementation problems. We can just sign the treaty. Only in the execution it becomes a bit more complicated. Our solution is not to create a hybrid form, but to convince people that not only in Veenhuizen are very suitable places to complete your detention. Mr Oskam and Mr Van Oosten, among others, asked how the processing of asylum applications would work. In my view, the treaty offers sufficient opportunities to prevent problems. The deadline mentioned by Mr Van Oosten, which was at least two months before the end, gives us ample time in our view to deal with it. Mr Van Oosten mentioned that some applications to the IND sometimes have longer lead times. That's right. However, these are often more complicated matters. We estimate that these matters are not so complicated. These people are now in Norway. Because of this, there can probably be a fairly standardised procedure for the discharge of those asylum applications. We'll monitor it closely. If there are reasons to consult with the Norwegians and to take this into account even more than we are already going to do when choosing the influx, we will certainly do so. If we feel it's going to be a problem, we still have the opportunity to refuse prisoners before they happen. And if they're already there, we can file a request for interim return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u11	That's clear. I have the treaty here. The note on the report seems to have a fairly strict deadline of two months. I now understand the words of the Secretary of State in a different way, namely that he agrees with those words 'at least'. If there seems to be a more complicated case, this may mean that the management or management organises that particular prisoner to return to Norway a little earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u12	That's right. In practice, a lot of people will go back much earlier than two months before the end of their detention. Not everyone who's been transferred is so close to the end of detention. In practice, we expect little problems. If anyone happens, we can also see how long the detention will last. We can then assess the risk, keep an eye on it and see if there is any reason to move forward for this particular reason. Mrs. Kooiman had two more questions. One question was whether each country should not take care of this itself. I would leave this discussion to the Norwegians in this particular case. However, she also asked where I draw the line myself. The starting point is that the State itself implements it. However, there is no obstacle. The starting point is quite logical: a country has imposed a punishment on a person and carries it out itself. But where will a punishment be carried out? There is no legal principle or ECHR injury prohibiting States from cooperating in enforcement. In its practical effects you may encounter borders, for example when the distances become extremely large or when there is no longer any possibility of family visits. In this case, we have dealt with that well. I don't have a very hard opinion of my own. I'm not this reluctant, you call it that? I'm defending and I'm not doing this because it's moth. I think this is a very nice way. These two countries always work well together and have quite similar values, including in this area. We can help each other and that is also good for employment in the Netherlands. Nor am I going to send a team of commercial travellers across Europe or the world to offer to transfer prisoners. If it occurs, a country has a problem, and we can help each other, I will always look at whether it is real, feasible and reasonable and submit it to the Chamber. However, now that this treaty is through, I have not received all kinds of new applications. I do not, however, have any fundamental opposition to it if another country were to request it. I would like to take a pragmatic look at that. Mrs. Kooiman asked about the benefit of the staff. How many people are we talking about? In any case, 239 full-time jobs are involved during the term, and thus certainly the same number of people who continue to work. There has also been a request for the principle of standardisation and the phasing-in of detention. Inmates who are eligible will be returned to Norway when their phase-out or leave begins, in order to shape them there. This is not happening in the Netherlands. Norway must also take into account in the selection that people do not enter that phase when they are in the Netherlands. So will Norway. That is the responsibility of Norway. We have no reason to doubt that it will take that responsibility. And if anyone has a question about it, then the Norwegian Parliament is very alert to this and will keep the Norwegian Government to the agreement that the rehabilitation in Norway should take shape. We have also noticed this in the contacts we have, for example during the visits. Mrs Kooiman asked about the prevention mechanism. How do we do that in the Netherlands? The starting point is full implementation on the basis of Norwegian law. The same applies to the use of violence in prison if it is unhoped for. However, it has been established that the systems are very similar. The staff will not have to deal with a world of difference. They are, of course, informed and educated, but the differences are not so great that we expect a lot of problems. The basis remains Norwegian law. Monitoring will thus also take shape in this way. Finally, I come to Mrs Kooiman's question as to how socialisation is regulated, with the principle of standardization, phasing and the so-called import model. The Norwegians also have their own responsibility for the return. The principle of standardisation applied by the Norwegians is that deprivation of liberty is the punishment and therefore not the secondary effect of other rights being taken away. There are therefore no more restrictions than are strictly necessary for the execution of the sentence, and there is as low a security regime as possible. They also try to make life in prison look much like a life outside prison, with, of course, the crucial difference in taking freedom. The phasing has a role in that. Norway has many facilities, some of which are similar to those in the Netherlands. For us, it is relevant that the prisoners are not in the phase in which these facilities are being addressed. We will not have to facilitate these matters in practical terms, because we will return to Norway in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u13	One of the great advantages of this Secretary of State is that he gives a very concise and clear answer. Nevertheless, I have two supplementary questions. In this conciseness, I particularly miss the concerns I have about employment after these three years. I naturally share the Secretary of State's wish that this is a longer-term project. Staff are not eligible for a scheme such as work-to-work. I would therefore like to be given an explanation of the possibilities that the Secretary of State may see for the inclusion of such a condition, so that staff are not excluded from a proper arrangement from one moment to the next if the three years are not unexpectedly extended. I think that is a tough point. I'll...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u14	Shall we ask this question first? Then I'll come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u15	The reason why the package is not available is, of course, that the master plan does not provide for the institution to close. As soon as that changes, you will have to make a link with this kind of social provision. You're gonna have to do that in a similar manner. But because the master plan that is in place is not provided for in the event that the prison closes, even in the event that the Norwegians do not extend, there is also no provision for going to another job. If that changes, we have to add it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u16	I understand that, but it is a point of attention. I imagine that because a closure is not yet foreseen, you do not yet have a "what if" situation. Then it is important that, should we at any time have a view of ending those three years, there should be timely thought about a work-to-work plan or something similar. This must be done sooner than at the moment when the capacity in Veenhuizen is no longer needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u17	Certainly, we will have to decide here how to deal with this, both if there is no extension and for the period following a possible extension. Is there any other function possible? If it is decided to close, you will certainly need all the arrangements Mrs Rebel mentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u18	The Secretary of State referred to the fact that this "garden of Norway" may be more favourable for visitors than certain regions in Norway itself. Nevertheless, I would like to know to what extent there has been consultation with the medical service on the possible treatment of mental problems related to the possibly less reception of visits or to the serving of detention in another environment. I think that is a point of attention, because the medical service is getting a new group of foreign detainees. I was wondering to what extent that was discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u19	I don't have exactly for the glasses which there were and how many. As a result of the analysis of the population, we estimate the risk of the Netherlands-Norway factor making such a difference. The Norwegians also take this into account when selecting who they send here. A large proportion of the people who will be sitting here would be similar in Norway. Not all family people, Norwegian family members with a Norwegian residence permit, will be in jail for a while. There is that problem, but it is not necessarily greater because people end up here. So we're just offering the regular package for the Norwegian prisoners. We also take accompanying measures to allow visitors to visit. So we do not see any additional risks purely and simply because of the fact that people are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u20	That's good to hear. Nevertheless, we know that, for example, the risk of suicide in detention is increasing. I can imagine that we will have to deal with this in Dutch detention. The Secretary of State also knows that this has a huge impact on the prison staff and the medical service. Has attention been paid to this particular new group? I can imagine that lessons have been learned from the situation with the population of Belgian prisoners in Tilburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u21	Yeah, especially when it comes to general matters. I fully share what Mrs Rebel says about the impact and the risks. I have the honour to receive picket reports when something almost happened. Those aren't small things. We deal with this in the normal way and here is just like the other p.i.Let's focus on it. That was the end of my first-term input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u22	I see that there is a need for a second term. We'll get right on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. I initially wanted to waive my second term, but I heard a few answers which made me think that I wanted to take advantage of my second term. I have heard lyrics such as: we strive to make life in prison as much as possible resemble life outside prison. What the hell are we doing? It is also a mistake to save jobs. The cabinet should have taken itself seriously when we held a debate on 3 September 2013 on the convicted criminals who were free. That's thousands of them. Everyone said it was a disgrace. Everyone said that the government's policy is not credible. If the cabinet had acted then, we would not have had this debate. The prisons, including Norgerhaven, would have been full. Now everyone is supposedly happy with the fact that employment remains. But this prison didn't close because of the master plan; it would stay open. The Secretary of State has confirmed that, too. So the whole employment story is a case of making someone happy with a dead sparrow. To be honest, it's almost unacceptable that convicted Dutch criminals are out there. And you'll see: we're gonna have to build it up later, because hopefully the cabinet is finally gonna do something about it. I hope that we will then have a debate on the fact that we have arrested many people. Then we can put the Secretary of State, the Minister and the Cabinet on the hat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. My group is still concerned about the possibility that asylum seekers may end up in Norgerhaven. It is perhaps unwise to advise people in advance not to apply for asylum in the Netherlands, because then they might do so, but we would like to give some direction to the discussion that the Secretary of State is still going to have with the Norwegians. We believe that asylum seekers should not be facilitated. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Norway intends, inter alia, to place prisoners from non-EU countries in the Dutch prison in Veenhuizen;]] [[Whereas it is not possible to prevent applications for asylum from being lodged on Dutch territory, thereby creating an additional workload for the IND;]] [[Whereas the lodging of such asylum applications will normally not be very successful for the detainees concerned, taking into account, inter alia, the Dublin Regulation;]] [[Calls on the Government to ask the Norwegian authorities not to facilitate future detainees in Norgerhaven when submitting an asylum application from the establishment in Norgerhaven;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34178-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u25	I was hoping to trigger the Secretary of State by saying that the distance from Norgerhaven to Tilburg is not that great, but he did not agree to that. We're worried about that prison in Tilburg. It is important that employment remains there beyond 2015. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government decided to close the penitentiary facility in Tilburg by means of the Master Plan;]] [[Whereas, in recent years, an agreement with Belgium has not yet required this establishment to be concluded and thereby to maintain employment;]] [[whereas the Belgian Minister of Justice must decide before 1 July 2015 whether Belgium will continue to use the Pl Tilburg in 2016, but has not yet done so;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage with the Belgian Minister of Justice in order not only to encourage the Pl Tilburg to remain open in 2016, but also to conclude a new agreement for rental after 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34178-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u26	My group has been and will continue to be committed to the PI Tilburg for a long time. The last time my group asked Mr Oskam for this in a general consultation, the Secretary of State became a little angry at him at the time. He said: what I do not need to make sure that Tilburg is doing well is that this is being discussed every time. My group has complied with that. I ask Mr Oskam if the PI Tilburg will be helped with his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u27	It is up to the Secretary of State to answer that. We think it is important that this should remain on the agenda. Also from Tilburg there is always the request to know what is going on. That makes sense, too. Those people have a job now, but they may not have a job next year. There are interests involved. If the Secretary of State says that he cannot answer that in the interests of the negotiations, then we will hear it, but we think it is our job to keep it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I believe that the questions and concerns that still lived with my group have been sufficiently answered by the Secretary of State. It seems to me appropriate to look closely at any unforeseen problems that may arise. This may also entail unforeseen costs, such as transport, education and visits. I have expressed my concerns about the extent to which calamities affect the prison staff. We are talking about a different population; in this sense we can learn lessons from the Belgians in Tilburg. Nevertheless, we believe that this is a positive contribution, particularly for employment in this part of the country. We support the Secretary of State with his accelerated procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I mentioned two points of criticism. Firstly, I have indicated that I share Mrs Helder's concern. Two years ago, we had a big debate on the demolition plan. Had we chosen a different approach at the time and listened to the ideas of the staff themselves, we would indeed not have been standing here. Mrs Helder is also right to say that there are enough convicted criminals here who, after being arrested, need a place in this prison. I therefore agree with that, but at the same time I believe that the employment argument is still valid. This was not decided at the time with our approval, but I believe that other solutions should be considered. My second point of criticism is the question of where the limit actually lies. Mrs Rebel of the Labour Party described it very nicely when she talked about prisoners as an export product and about the prison system as a trade. Do we have to go there? I have therefore put to the Secretary of State the question as to where the border lies for him. We now have an agreement with Norway for three years, but I know that there is no attempt in Norway to build new prisons, nor is there any other way of imposing sanctions. In other words, how far can you go? Can a cut be used as an excuse to fill out free spaces in this way? In other words, I share Mrs Helder's concerns. Finally, a small point. Violence and coercive measures are applied on the basis of Dutch regulations. The Norwegian prison director, he or she, must know about the Dutch laws and regulations. It would therefore be very nice if the Secretary of State promised that the Norwegian director or director would be trained in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr Van Oosten has waived his right to speak, and that is the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I see that the Secretary of State is getting ready to stand and that means that he can respond immediately to the outstanding questions and the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. I cannot escape the impression that I did not fully succeed in convincing Mrs Helder of the usefulness of this treaty in the first term. There seemed to be a small chance, but unfortunately. However, I would like to say that the whole story about 'as much as possible resemble each other inside and outside' is my explanation of Norwegian policy and that I did so at the request of the Chamber. I do not know exactly what Mr Oskam is doing in his motion on item No. 7 means "not to facilitate." I have no reason to think that Norway is going to send a package or hand out notes on the plane with the message 'ask for asylum', because that will not help Norway at all. So they are not actively pointed out by the Norwegians to that possibility and once they are here, there is nothing to facilitate, because then it is "identifiable to a Dutch official" and that has its own consequences. So I cannot legally oppose such a request if it has not been made. Maybe someone can pretend not to hear it, but if they persist, we should still consider an application for asylum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u32	I am more concerned that they are covered by Norwegian law and perhaps also that they are accompanied by Norwegians. They are of course taken care of by Dutch guards, but this is without prejudice to the fact that Norwegian probation officers in the Netherlands can visit to see how to proceed with someone after his release. At that time it can therefore be pointed out that you can also apply for asylum in the Netherlands. We therefore want it to be brought to the attention of the Norwegian Government and hence this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u33	This possibility has been highlighted, because we have, of course, discussed it with them. In any case, it's quite an opportunityless exercise, and I don't see in any way that the Norwegians are going to point that out. If prisoners come into contact with the probation, they'll be back in Norway. Resocialization is taking place there and the phased out detention is also taking place. The Netherlands will not point to the possibility of asylum. They're going back anyway. To be subject to Norwegian law does not mean that international law is gone. Such a request is made, that is just a little administrative fuss, and if it happens a few times in a row, we will talk to the Norwegians about the purpose: take this into account in the population to prevent this. In practice, it will not lead to people suddenly walking out of the gate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u34	I'm asking a question in a search. I believe that the solution is, as I indicated in my first term, in the word 'at least'. You have to remember, among some prisoners, that there may be an opportunity for them to apply for asylum. So you have to organize that the treatment is completed in time, so that the prisoner in question can return. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State again: isn't that right? It is true that this is going to be looked at critically, and that is why this motion for a resolution, which I am sure the background would be lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u35	In any case, we have more experience with, for example, repeated requests that are still being made at the last minute, and we also have experience with the speedy delivery of decisions when things are simply obvious, combined with the rules we already have on bringing them back in time. If you've had a first procedure, of course you can appeal, but you don't have to wait here. So someone can just be brought back. So it is not the case that we are dealing with someone who has rights here because of that one request but cannot be held because his detention ends. For the latter, we have the minimum of the two-month requirement. I share Mr Oskam's intention, but if he really asks me to have the conversation with the Norwegians that we have already had, I must say that I do not think that is so diplomatically desirable. After all, we have already heard about this, and we do not have the impression that this is not yet clear to the Norwegians. In that context, I would advise against this motion. I come to Mr Oskam's second motion, the motion in part No. 8 over the PI Tilburg. Mr Oskam makes it very tempting for me to say that I cannot give an answer 'in the interests of the negotiations', because of course he has souffled it himself. Let me put it this way: both countries understand each other well. Mr Oskam may be curious whether I have talked to Belgium about this since I took office. The answer to that is yes. It is clear to the Belgians and to both of us, whatever the interests and the goodwill of us. Furthermore, I think this is something that Belgium really needs to decide, in good consultation. Belgium needs to look at its situation in order to determine the Belgian needs. The Belgian Minister is well aware that there is availability and that, if there is a request for a new treaty, we are sympathetic to it. This motion is not necessary in that process. So I'd like to dissuade her. Mrs Kooiman asked a question about the borders. That's still a weighting. We will look at it at a time, but that is, of course, a bit double. On the one hand, there is a great deal of curiosity: after this contract, can those jobs not stay a little longer, and what happens to those people? On the other hand, in an ideal world, everyone would do it themselves. I know that dilemma. That is why I keep saying: I am open to any request or suggestion. That's the conversation I'm gonna have. At the same time, I don't have any brochures with pictures of this at embassies. I must say, however, that in this case, also in order to give the prisoners in Norway the feeling of where they end up, a very beautiful film was made about the institution. That movie does have recruiting quality, but we won't put it under everyone's nose. Mrs Kooiman then asked a question about the violence instruction. This is covered by Norwegian law, but in practice Norwegian and Dutch law is so close to each other in this respect that the Dutch instruction can simply be followed. It's Norwegian law. In that sense, we do not have to teach the director. The staff has been trained on the differences. In this area, however, the differences are so small that we do not expect any problems in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u36	I have heard very well what the Secretary of State said about the motion in part No. 8, the motion Belgium, so to speak. I am fine with holding that motion, but in return I would like the Secretary of State to give us an assurance that we will be clear before 1 July. Belgium must also clarify its position before 1 July, so that seems reasonable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u37	The clarity in this case can be given until 1 July, so I would like to say a little more about it after 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u38	Mr Oskam says outside the microphone that 2 July is also good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u39	As soon as there's clarity, we'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u40	At the request of Mr Oskam, I propose his motion (34178, No. 8) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u41	I have not answered one more question from Mrs Kooiman. She asked how much Norway is doing to solve the capacity problem. There is attention to it and that is being worked on. In the parliamentary debate on 8 June, we expect the Norwegian debate to be held on this subject as well. I cannot anticipate what the parliamentarians will give the government. It's not like nothing's going to happen, but the speed is up to Norway. At the same time, this is a communicative vessel with the need and employment for us. I follow it with interest, but I am not encouraging every day that things are going even faster than they are already planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-03-tweedekamer-8.u42	The vote on the Treaty and on the motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday. Thank you all for taking part in this debate.
