ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Azerbaijan's ambassador wants to hinder individual MPs to fulfil their public duties and participate in public discussions. That sounds serious, and that is serious. Let me explain. Very recently, several MPs received a letter from the ambassador of Azerbaijan expressing his concerns about a discussion that will be held on Saturday at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam about the region of Nagorno-Karabakh. Specific reference was made to the participation of Mr Van Bommel in this discussion. The ambassador of Azerbaijan used great words. He speaks of propaganda and anti-Azerbaijan policy, even before our colleague has entrusted his speech text to the paper at all. He also asked the authorities to take all the necessary measures to prevent this participation. I find that unheard of. The fact that Azerbaijan wants to silence critics within its own borders is one thing and one thing to condemn. However, the fact that it is also trying to silence critics outside the national borders and within our Dutch borders goes too far. In the Netherlands we know freedom of expression. We have a Constitution that gives us the right to speak freely. We have a democratic rule of law that guarantees our freedom. I don't want that to be blackmailed. I have no doubt that we will send such a signal from the Chamber, but I also have questions for the Minister today. Did the cabinet get this letter from the embassy? How does the cabinet judge this letter? Does the Minister consider that the ambassador is in excess of a standard here and is she prepared to express her displeasure to the Ambassador?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for the question. We have been given a so-called note verbale. That is a letter from the ambassador of Azerbaijan to our Kingdom, which is along the same lines as the letter addressed to the Chamber. The government's response is clear and predictable. Fortunately, we live in a free country in which Mr Van Bommel has every right to say something about anything. In this composition, it is not even up to me to qualify as a member of the government as a member of parliament. Azerbaijan's ambassador has the right to give his vision and it is clear that the Free University has the right to hold a debate on a subject that it considers relevant. Mr Sjoerdsma says the Chamber will respond to the ambassador. It is not for me to give that a qualification either, but I can imagine that is being done. In the regular talks we will also discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It rightly states that Members of Parliament have the freedom to express what they want to express, that we have the room to criticise as we wish. That is something that the Chamber does not need outside protection. The real question is as follows. Since the Minister has also been given a note verbale, an official diplomatic communiqué from the Azerbaijani Embassy, I think it would be better not to wait for that regular moment, but to ask the Minister to immediately send the following message to the Azerbaijani Ambassador: yes, we are indeed living in a rule of law, you are free to say what you want, but the standard, namely to obstruct MPs in the performance of their duties, must not be exceeded. I must say that, when you read the communiqué, there is a subtle intimidating effect. I find that unacceptable. Since the Minister has received that letter formally, I would like her to give the reaction formally and not wait for an interim moment. It says quite a bit, I said, in the first place, that Azerbaijan is not only trying to silence critics within its own borders, but also within our borders. I mention a journalist sentenced to seven and a half years in prison, and I mention Leyla and Arif Yunus, who have been sentenced to eight and seven and a half years in prison respectively. I would like to ask the Minister, not in a direct quid pro quo, but it is nevertheless a good opportunity for her to speak to the Ambassador shortly, to bring that matter to the attention again, in the context of freedom of expression in the broad sense and the concerns that the Netherlands has about this in Azerbaijan itself. Whether it's journalists or activists, they deserve our support right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	We have regular contacts, not only in the Netherlands, but also with the authorities in Azerbaijan. We have broad relations with Azerbaijan, where there is clearly room for discussion on matters that we look at very differently than they do. These issues are dealt with at regular intervals. This must be done, because they are of course just as much concern to the government; Mr Sjoerdsma knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	I just want to make it a little more specific. I'm not asking for any regularity, and I'm not asking for a convenient moment. I ask for a stylish pede reaction to the note verbale that the cabinet has received. I ask the Minister in my last term to say that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	I will let the Azerbaijani ambassador, who has undoubtedly followed this little Question Time, know what our view is. We live in a free country where everyone is free to say what he or she wants on every subject. I shall soon convey this view to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	I thank the Minister for this commitment. We will undoubtedly meet from the Chamber to see how we can respond appropriately to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	It seems to be the norm to summon an ambassador to the Chamber every week. It is the right of Mr Sjoerdsma, it is the right of every Member of Parliament, but I am nevertheless asking the question of the border between intimidation and the expressing of a position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	The purpose of this Question Time is to put a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	That's right. That is why I am asking the Minister how last year, in my view, it was around April, a meeting at the Free University of Amsterdam, organized by a Turkish study association, was not allowed and now such a fuss is being made about this point in the Chamber and diplomatic relations are being put at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u11	I do not recognize the qualifications that have just been given about the questions that have been asked and the answers I have given. If someone feels intimidated by what someone else is doing, it's that person's right. That is the reality on which we should all proceed and on which the discussion should be conducted. We have regular contacts with the ambassador of Azerbaijan. In this I will discuss this, and that seems to me to be the right reason. It is true, Mr President, that anyone may speak freely and express his opinion on this matter and on others. That is why this is also a parliament in which everyone can speak freely, within the speaking time you allow, of course. I have little to add to the answer I already gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Kuzu, Mr Öztürk has already asked a question on behalf of your group, so I give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u14	I do not entirely agree with Mr Sjoerdsma on the questioning of the Minister. We do not need the Minister at all to enforce the freedom of speech of Members of Parliament or to dedicate a letter to ambassadors. After all, we receive them here as well. I do find it worrying that Mr Sjoerdsma needs three deadlines in order to ensure that the minister responds by returning post to the note verbale sent to him. The commitment is clear. It must be made very clear what the separation of powers is. Anyone can learn from this, including the sympathizers of Armenia and Azerbaijan in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u15	I believe that I have said quite quickly that we are in favour of freedom of expression in this country. I will have that said as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Ten Broeke asked whether this could be done by return mail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u17	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
