ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. The first speaker is Mr Merkies, on behalf of the SP Group. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr. Chairman. In March this year, the cabinet postponed the sale of ABN AMRO indefinitely, because there was not enough rest and confidence to be able to proceed to an IPO. That's another understatement, I'd say. The country was upside down. People were shocked and disbelieved that ABN AMRO's summit had made such a mess of it. Under heavy public pressure the board members waived their ton of extra salary, a salary increase that Zalm had consistently and stoicly defended until then. However, there was more to it. It was also about internal control, prevention of money laundering and corruption. I would like to hear from the Minister what investigations are still under way into these abuses. What is meant by restoring peace and trust? That was my question at the time. I asked if that might mean that the media wouldn't write about it anymore. That seems to be the case. A few weeks later it was already there. Trust in ABN AMRO would have been fully restored and ABN AMRO could go to the market; there was no air pollution. But trust doesn't just recover in a few weeks, especially when there's so much wrong with the bank and its board. That is why I would like to know from the Minister what happened at that time to restore confidence in the bank and the top of the bank. The question is also why the cabinet has made such a haste in bringing ABN AMRO to the market, while there has not yet been a good social debate on the future of the bank, although there is a need for such a debate. As I indicated earlier, more than half of the population supports the SP's proposal to keep the bank in government hands and make it an example bank. From a financial point of view, I also wonder why the cabinet makes this choice. The annual dividend revenue is much higher than the interest payable annually, now that the government can borrow so cheaply. In addition to this annual loss, there is also the one-off loss. ABN AMRO has cost 24 billion after all pluses and minuses. The Minister wrote earlier that it was 22 billion, but I understood that there would be additional costs, so that the sum would eventually reach 24 billion. Can the Minister confirm that? If that is the case and the bank is sold for 15 billion, then the taxpayer is making 9 billion losses. Then there are also the costs of the IPO itself. That's a pretty expensive joke. Two years ago it was calculated that this would amount to about EUR 400 million. The Minister assumed 2.7%. He thought: that could be cheaper; I can do it for 1%. Today we hear from IPO expert Nico van der Sar that the percentage may be much higher. In the US it is sometimes up to 7%. You'd even make it to a billion dollars. I wonder how the Minister will get to that 1%. It kind of reminds me of the following. You want to do a job in the house and someone says he knows a handyman who can do it much cheaper. I always wonder what happens next. The quality may not be quite good, the wiring is still a bit loose and more work needs to be done. That's what you get here a little bit. Eventually, you also want to arrange the protection structure well and that brings with it additional costs. I also call it the loyalty dividend. The PvdA indicated that they needed it. It was first for a state bank, because it had to be long-term. She got out of it and then said: then we'll do loyalty shares to ensure the long-term public interest. Now that's gone, too, because it would cost too much. In the end, it came out that there was only a constructive dialogue. That's just not enough. I would like to get a complete picture of all the costs associated with the IPO, including NLFI itself and including any additional costs related to the protection structures, for example the certificates on which a discount is held. This way, we will not be surprised by all kinds of additional work and post-taxes. Is the Minister prepared to give that total, complete picture of all costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u3	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Merkies said, the nationalisation of ABN AMRO cost the taxpayer more than 34 billion, of which ABN AMRO covered 22 billion. My first question to the Minister is as follows. How do we get that 12 billion difference back from Fortis ASR? Is that gonna be enough? Of course, we should never have wasted this crown jewel in 2008. The bank has been taken over, torn into pieces and bought back as a hull bank by the State for far too much money. The taxpayer can now pay the price for this blunder. Anyway, it happened, so we're looking forward. The PVV can agree to the exchange of the first tranche of ABN AMRO, but on condition that the entire amount of 22 billion is finally repaid. That must be the starting point, nothing more and nothing less. Without this 22 billion, the bank would have been bankrupt. That 22 billion has to go back; that's the least of it. If the stock market does not deliver enough, it remains on the balance sheet as a residual loan. Over the past two years, the bank has made a net profit of over 1 billion. In the first quarter of this year, net profit was even over 500 million. In addition, the bank promises investors a return of 12.5%. Soon the new shareholders with a well-capitalised bank and a strong return will be achieved, while the taxpayer will be left behind with a heavy hangover. If you can promise 2 billion returns to shareholders, you can also compensate the taxpayer. After last month's slippage, the bank solemnly promised not to raise salaries and not to pay bonuses as long as the State remains a shareholder. I therefore call on the Minister to remain a shareholder until the 22 billion has been repaid. So no salary increases and no bonuses, but first completely compensate the taxpayer. Can the Minister undertake to do this? The protection chosen by the Stichting Administratiekantoor (Stichting Administratiekantoor) represents a loss of value of 1.5 billion and has a bad image abroad. Many experts, including Mr Zalm, indicated in the round table that this construction was actually undesirable and preferred a foundation that could issue preferential shares. This is more effective and less expensive. Why was this expensive solution chosen? Is that really because of the ECB taking too much time to make a statement of no objection? Mr Zalm gave that as a reason. I can hardly imagine it, and it's too absurd for words. The treasury is going to miss 1.5 billion because of the creation of the ECB's office. Long live European supervision! Can we not agree on this? Why can't the declaration of no objection be given conditionally to the Foundation Continuity? What about ING? It has the same construction, but it is also at risk because the lead time of the statement of no objection would be far too long. Jan Kalf, but Jaap Koelewijn also thought it was too early for an IPO. The bank has not yet achieved the optimum profitability, they said. Can the Minister respond to this? Why is he in such a hurry? Doesn't waiting a little longer mean much more return? How much time is actually allocated to the entire IPO? The Minister says that the State will remain a shareholder for a number of years, but what is a number of years? Is that 10 years or 20 years? What's the Minister thinking? The PVV wants to evaluate the results of the first tranche of the stock exchange before proceeding to a subsequent tranche. Maybe it's smarter to take a little longer and a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u4	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Schouten. Mr Van Dijck, during the debate we really should not talk to each other outside the microphone. Separation of powers. You should know that as a Member of Parliament. This also applies to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u5	Mr. Chairman. I will do my utmost not to get in touch with this Minister of Finance, otherwise I will get a reprimand from your side! Only two months ago, in the debate on the unrest at ABN AMRO, this Minister said that he would postpone the IPO until there was enough rest and confidence again. The trust and tranquility were gone. Trust goes on horseback and comes on foot, the Minister said literally. That coming on foot has gone very fast in this case, because about two months later he concludes that the peace and confidence were completely back and that ABN AMRO could be returned to the market. Apart from all the questions about how to interpret these words, my central question in this debate is why it all has to be done so quickly. It seems as if the Minister saw all the unrest over the rewards as an annoying wrinkle in the pond, but also not as more than that. What is the reason that ABN AMRO must now be brought to the market on a stand-up basis? It is true that the conditions are formally met to bring ABN back to the stock market, but an IPO is more than a technical exercise. It is a question of whether we are left with a service bank, which can operate in the interests of the customers, in the interests of the employees and in the interests of society as a whole. Then I conclude that government policy is linked to two thoughts. On the one hand, it quickly opts for an IPO, but on the other hand it wants to close everything. It is the polder bank compromise of the VVD and the PvdA. The Christian Union is not necessarily opposed to an IPO, but has serious doubts about the timing and speed of decision-making. Moreover, the fact that a heavy protection structure is being chosen now raises the question of whether the Minister has the confidence that ABN is ready for an IPO. It is customary to opt for preferred shares, but the Minister has opted for certification of shares. This is also likely to lead to a 10% lower yield for the State, ergo the taxpayers. Why, then, does the Minister choose to do so if at the same time he wants to recoup as much of the State's total investment as possible? Then I come back to my first question: why is it that I have to go to the fair already? Isn't it better to wait, to receive further dividends, to receive ABN is doing quite well at the moment and to make sure that the bank becomes strong enough not to need such a very heavy protection structure anymore? I have some other questions, such as the internal governance situation. During the hearing in the Chamber, Mr Zalm said that over the next year and a half all the bank's wealthy customers will be turned inside out, partly in the light of Dubai's experience. How can there be a solid stock market at the end of this year if the bank is still under internal scrutiny at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u6	I'd like to ask a question about the protection structure. Mrs Schouten seems to maintain the reasoning that if there were longer waiting, less protection would be necessary. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u7	I note that the cabinet itself is now saying: if we do it now, there must be a heavy construction against it, among other things because ABN may be taken over if the company is brought to the market in parts. Then my second question is: why not wait any longer? Then you may also see that there is no longer a need for such a heavy protection structure. Here the pace seems to go for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u8	The PvdA doesn't see that relationship that way. If a bank is set up on its own, a protection structure is always needed. We have seen where the absence of a protection structure leads: ABN has been taken over, fallen prey and eventually went down. Other financial institutions such as ING, Delta Lloyd or Nationale Nederlanden also have protection structures of a similar nature. This also applies to KPN. The PvdA is in favour of a strong protection structure if it serves a public interest. I would like to ask Mrs Schouten whether she is not in favour of this in general or whether she wants it to depend on the moment of rejection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u9	If Mr Nijboer has heard my words correctly, he knows that I am not against a protection structure, but a very heavy protection structure has been chosen here. Unfortunately, I think it is necessary at the moment. That's why my question is: why are you going to continue this IPO now? If Mr Nijboer had complied with his own election programme, ABN would never have been brought to the market again. I also have a question about the cost of the IPO. The Minister himself assumes that the costs will be around 1%. On average, the cost of taking stock in Europe is around 3% to 5%. How does the Minister arrive at his own calculation? Is that 1% a hard demand for him? In other words, is there, as far as he is concerned, an upper limit? If so, we'd like to hear it. In this context, I would also ask him how he carried out the Van Hijum/Schouten motion, which calls for a weighting of the remuneration structure at the business bank which in this case will bring ABN to the market. How did the Minister carry out that motion or how did he take into account the remuneration structure of that business bank when awarding the order to market ABN? Earlier, we talked about the fact that ABN should be a service bank. We also mentioned that a cooperative model would have our preference. I see that this option does not have a majority politically, but now, against remembrance, we are questioning it very much at a high price in the form of a heavy protection structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u10	Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the IPO of ABN AMRO is immeasurable, for two reasons. It is financially unwise and socially unwise. Let me start with the financial side. The government already has more than 22 billion euros in ABN AMRO and an estimated negative balance of some 7 billion will be returned in the near future. So that's what we're doing as taxpayers. If it were any other way and could not be otherwise, we would do so for the legitimate rescue operations of the banks that have been there. However, it seems logical to do so in less haste, to keep the bank longer in government hands and to wait for the taxpayer to make up for a greater share of his losses through the annual dividend. At the same time, the bank may increase in value. After all, the solvency of the bank can increase and if it is going well with a bank and it stays stable for longer, you can expect that bank to be worth more. During the hearings and the round table, we also noticed that several speakers said: it is still a volatile market at the moment and it is not very beneficial for people to invest in the financial sector at the moment. In the present case, therefore, it prints the value. GroenLinks also wants for other reasons, social reasons, that ABN AMRO stays longer in government hands, not as an end in itself, but to have the time to investigate other constructions. As I have said before, ABN AMRO must not go back to the stock market, but must return to society. That is not necessarily in the hands of the state, but that is a serious option to examine. The Minister lays down all kinds of conditions for sale, but we lack the essentials. What kind of bank do we want? What kind of bank does the minister want to leave behind? Is it a bank that is simply doing its job, or is it a bank that is actually focused on public services, sustainable investment, SME lending and stopping facilitating tax avoidance for wealthy individuals? The latter is a branch where ABN AMRO is also big in. However, it is not about all that; it is about the price. How can the Minister guarantee us, apart from amending the statutes on this point, that the bank is and will remain in service? We had the soap opera around the pay policy. Six weeks after that, confidence had been restored, but if the State is going to be out of ABN AMRO, who guarantees us that these rewards will not fly back into the air in no time, which means that we have to establish that there has been no real cultural change at all? Frankly, I've got a bad feeling about the whole thing. That may be with the exception of Chairman Zalm, whom I still trust in that respect. However, when it comes to what is really between the Commissioners and the administration, there is no trust. An IPO isn't the only option. Other options such as a cooperative form or a much larger share of the population have not been seriously explored. Then the only option left to keep a grip on the couch is the protection structure. Let it be clear: GroenLinks is a strong supporter of this protection structure; it cannot be strong enough. In this respect, we support this Minister. However, that construction can also be demolished. That has already happened in the past. Yes, a foundation and a banking board must be aware of this at the same time, but it is often two-handed. Can the Minister assure us that the protection structure will never be demolished again? Is it perhaps wise for the State to hold at least one third of the shares? This would be the only way to effectively control the future of ABN AMRO through the current statutes and regulations. Is the Minister prepared to hold at least one third of the shares permanently?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u11	Mr. Chairman. Many have devoured the book The Prey as a thriller, but it was the harsh reality. Today, a next chapter in the book on ABN AMRO begins. On 3 October 2008, the Netherlands bought the Dutch shares of Fortis/ABN. Today, on 23 June 2015, the VVD wants to take the next step to bring ABN AMRO back to the market. This has always been the purpose of the VVD. The VVD is for a responsible IPO. This means: fast in stock market shares, with a first batch of shares this year. Running a bank is not the job of the government. All the regulations in the financial sector are aimed at cutting the link between the government and the financial sector. They don't fit in with state banks. This distorts the market and the conditions of competition. It ultimately provides less competitive rates for mortgages and SME loans. In the financial crisis, it also became clear that state banks or state-owned banks were not doing so well at all. Think of the Cajas in Spain, for example. The Central Plan Bureau also notes that private banks are more cost-efficient and can serve business better than a state bank. And that is what we want: a customer-oriented bank for consumers and businesses. The De Wit Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry concluded that the bank was overpaid from an economic point of view. In the end, what the bank is going to bring is actually watching coffee. At least the VVD wants to get as much money back from the taxpayer as possible. With that, I come directly to the chosen protection structure. This may affect the price. As far as we are concerned, the construction must be temporary and can be explained to investors, including abroad. The VVD therefore has in principle a preference for a foundation with preferential shares as announced in a previous letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u12	At the beginning of Mrs De Vries' speech, De Prei appears. She said the book read like a thriller, but it wasn't. However, it was a thriller because our financial system was brought to the brink of the abyss. It was then a bank without a protective structure. Now it's about a bank that does have a protection structure. I hear the VVD then pleading to keep that construction temporary and especially not too heavy. Can the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats explain that to me again? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u13	We also want the best possible price for the bank. It affects each other. It is important that the construction is temporary and explainable. As far as we are concerned, a takeover cannot be stopped altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u14	I really can't follow the analysis of the VVD. It's the party that wants to go to the stock market the fastest with the bank. With a few more years you would have earned back the difference in price with the dividend. The VVD opts for a temporary protection structure. As a result, we are now taking up the loss and, later on, we are also losing our protection. I can't rhyme with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u15	I am glad that GroenLinks can predict developments on the stock market. I'd say go do something with it. At least I can't. For me, it's a cup of coffee. I don't know exactly how that goes. It is a good thing that we shape the stock market responsibly and that we bring the bank to the market in tranches. Then we can see what prices are opposite. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u16	I don't understand any of this temporaryity either. It seems as if the VVD has learned nothing from the period 2007-2008. Let's say that once again a consortium buys ABN AMRO, after which the shareholders can celebrate because they have received a nice price for their shares. The bank will then be cut into pieces and the taxpayer will again be able to pay 36 million. According to the VVD, should she be able to do that, or has she learned anything from what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u17	It is important that the construction is temporary. Shareholders also have a lot of money in such a bank. As far as I'm concerned, they should be able to go to court. This is also common in protection structures. We have to be honest. At the time, there was no protection structure at ABN AMRO. Such a construction could have provided a solution in that sense that time could be bought. The route could have been delayed, which would have enabled one to verify for oneself whether there were any other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u18	So the VVD is definitely for a protection structure. It cannot be temporary, because at the time of its expiry the risk of a debacle arises as we have had with ABN AMRO. In other words, the VVD is for a protection structure for years with the possibility to go to court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u19	I have indicated that our preference is in principle to a foundation with preferential shares. That's a protection structure. I think the Minister's letter says that he wants to set up the construction for two years. In the meantime, you can go to the Entrepreneurship Room and have it checked whether this is still proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u20	You can take out banks like the Cajas, government banks. I can put as many private banks against that. I call Lehman Brothers; a bank that's gotten into trouble. To say right now that the government can't... the government doesn't have to do it itself. Minister Dijsselbloem does not have to start banking himself. That's what bankers are for. The bank is only in government hands. We used to have De Postbank, which was in the hands of the government. This is currently the case for ABN AMRO. Does Mrs De Vries say that these banks are doing very badly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u21	I think it's gonna get worse if a bank is in the government's hands for longer. We had a round table in which economists from different backgrounds said that it was not wise to hold a state bank. The CPB indicates that, too. So I don't understand why the SP continues to believe in that socialist fairy tale.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u22	Then Mrs De Vries probably heard what my reaction was. She did not read those CPB investigations. I have read them and they refer to banks in India. It was before the crisis, not insignificant. Reference was also made to banks in the communist system. That is a very different type of bank! Of course, that fits in with Mrs De Vries' style. My specific question was whether she thought the Postbank was doing very badly and whether she thinks ABN AMRO is doing very badly now. In fact, that's what she says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u23	I didn't say that at all. I think ABN AMRO is doing well in itself, but it is a very different bank than Postbank in the past. That was actually just a consumer bank, not a business one. I think that was the CPB's comment. I did read the CPB investigation. Mr Merkies completely ignores the round table, in which a number of economists said that it simply does not work for this type of bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u24	I'm a little confused. Mrs De Vries talks about a two-year protection structure. I just scanned the letter, but I can't find the two-year deadline. It depends on the state's shares, but it could be years before we've had the entire stock market. Does Mrs De Vries now argue that after two years there should be a review of the protection structure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u25	I think it's been arranged for such a protection structure to last two years. We saw that at KPN. After that, it can be invoked again, but it can always be reviewed by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u26	I'm not allowed to make contact with this chairman's minister, but non-verbal I can see that he's shaking no. Whether Mrs De Vries's information is not correct or whether she is trying to explain something because it is not quite clear to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u27	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u28	Let us allow the Minister to respond to this in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u29	My point is that the answer given by Mrs De Vries and the image she has of the protection structure is a factor. I'd like to hear her opinion on that heavier protection structure. Does she think it should be designed in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u30	As I just heard the Minister whisper: the protection structure, the foundation, is always there and in wartime it can run for up to two years and be tested in the Entrepreneur's Chamber. Mr. Chairman. The Minister now opts for a foundation administration office. We are curious to see to what extent this construction is comparable to that of the foundation's preferred shares and what guarantees the minister can offer for that. To what extent has a vvgb, whether conditional or not for a foundation's preferred shares, been really investigated and why can DNB and ECB not already consider a vvgb application at the time of setting up such a foundation instead of following the exercise of the call option on protection preference shares? In our view, companies should report their continuity and potential voting interests to the AFM even now at existing foundations. Then there are a few other questions. Why does the minister want to work with anchor investors? Is this necessary and how does this affect the price? Furthermore, a greenshoe is a very expensive option that is given away to the accompanying banks. How is this settled? Is it within 1% transaction costs? The quality of the accompanying banks in terms of the VVD is paramount for the stock market, but the cost to the taxpayer must of course be kept as low as possible. Is 1% of the costs realistic according to the Minister and does he ensure that they are actually kept in? How does the Minister view the recently announced sale of RBS shares in relation to ABN AMRO's stock exchange? The VVD is pleased that private investors can also subscribe to the shares. It's one of the biggest IPOs in recent years. It's about money, a lot of money. In the coming years, this requires something from the bank itself, but also from the Dutch State as a co-shareholder and also from politics, namely calmness, predictability and thus restraint, during the stock market of the first shares, but also in the coming years in subsequent tranches of shares. Nothing is as harmful to investors, and therefore the price, as an activist political interference. So now it's also going to be the art of letting go to get as much tax money back as possible. Finally. The VVD hopes that, after the sale of Reaal and the sale of ABN AMRO, it will also be possible to follow up quickly, but responsibly, on SNS and ASR, because only then will we have a more competitive financial sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u31	Mr. Chairman. Citizens see how their mortgage applications are rejected, companies see how their credit applications are rejected, taxpayers see how EUR 22 billion has been used to save ABN AMRO and what is the Minister's proposal? He wants to bring ABN AMRO to the market for 15 billion euros. Who sells a profitable business with a loss of EUR 7 billion? Which citizen or company does that? ABN AMRO made more than 1 billion euros a year in 2013 and 2014. That money is available to the State. Then why not wait to collect those billions over the next few years, just as long as you don't make any more losses in the sale of ABN AMRO? What's the rush? There's a minister here who's willing to sell the bank at any cost. Why is that? Minister, are there any other interests we don't know? Explain that to the citizens! Why do you want to lose billions so badly? Your predecessor, Mr Bos, went into history as the savior of the banks and the saver of citizens' savings. You are going into history as the minister who has cost society EUR 7 billion. Mr President, our proposal is that we do not make a loss on ABN AMRO, zero point zero euro. That should be the starting point of the policy: not the minister's tunnel vision, but everything to get the money back! To this end, we shall table a motion in the second term. Minister, dare to think differently, dare to choose the citizens!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u32	I would ask you to always speak through the President, Mr Öztürk. I call Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u33	Mr. Chairman. The consequences of the financial crisis were and still are felt in the Netherlands. On 3 October 2008, President Wellink of the Netherlands Bank, Minister Wouter Bos van Financiën and Prime Minister Balkenende stated that ABN and Fortis Bank Nederland were nationalised. The collapse of that bank would put people's savings at risk, undermine financial stability and thereby implode the entire economy. Luckily, it didn't come to that, even though there was a lot of damage. The Dutch taxpayer became, against will and thanks, the owner of what was at the time not too modestly called "the bank." Now the intention is to put ABN back on its feet after seven years. The PvdA set three tough conditions for this in recent debates. Firstly, we want a solid protection structure. Secondly, it should be included in the statutes that it becomes a service bank, i.e. a bank that not only focuses on short-term gain. Moreover, this must be reflected not only in the statutes but also in the behaviour and strategy, but at least we want to include it in the statutes. Thirdly, we do not want to bring the matter to the market at enormous costs. I will deal with all three criteria. First of all, the protection structure. It is strong, as several previous speakers have pointed out. The PvdA Group believes that this is wise, because precisely the cause of the misery of ABN and the ultimate nationalisation were also in too limited protection and a short-term shareholder gain, which ultimately got the bank in trouble and allowed reckless behavior of directors. It has already been asked whether it is possible to issue preferential shares and to give a statement of no objection to this. That's a different construction than the administration office foundation. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers. I am also curious about the constructions that Nationale Nederlanden, Delta Lloyd and ING have. They did, however, issue preferential shares. If those institutions had to wait 30 to 60 days for the declaration of no objection if there was a hostile takeover, they would not be well protected. If so, should no action be taken? The second is the long-term interest. I checked with the chairman of the Management Board during the hearing on this matter. How does he see the bank serving banking, not in its own interests, but in the interests of SMEs, consumers, or society? He indicated that the policy would not be short-term, but rather long-term. That is enshrined in the statutes and ABN has internalised it to be a service bank. The PvdA would be okay if the controlled remuneration policy got a place in it. I have tabled, together with Mr Merkies, an amendment stating that no bonuses can be distributed at the top and top management, as long as the government is a shareholder in the bank. The entire Chamber has forced that wage increases will not be discussed in the near future. As far as I am concerned, the controlled remuneration policy must also be anchored in the long term. The third criterion is costs. An extensive study has been carried out by the Minister on how to reduce costs. It's below 1%. That is a very different amount from the amounts circulating. Mr Merkies already referred to it. There is a full investigation, at the request of the Chamber and at the request of the PvdA, into how costs can be reduced. It says that one stays below 1% and I really want to hold the Minister to that. So there is no question of the 7% rule, as it is in the financial world, on which we could read today. We have to stay far away from that. We don't want to let those hundreds of millions go to business bankers again. At the same time, of course, the supervision must be professional, otherwise the taxpayer will not get enough value for money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u34	The reason why the PvdA was so mordicus against the sale of ABN AMRO in 2012 and didn't want to bring the company to the market was because it didn't want a short-term profit-oriented bank. Eventually there were elections and the PvdA lost. Now it's happening. Then I asked Mr Nijboer what he was going to do. The PvdA is trying to do something for it instead. It wants to focus on long-term shareholdership. The loyalty dividend is already gone. The only thing that would come into the statutes is that it would become a service bank. That's just like banks saying they're putting the customer at the center, and that's why Mr Nijboer thinks he's gonna be okay? He can't agree to that easily, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u35	That's not the only thing. We have talked extensively about a solid protection structure and about the cause of the lack of protection, which ultimately got ABN into trouble. We have had a whole debate on this. It is enshrined in the Bank's statutes and strategy. The remuneration policy and the type of people you attract: in practice, the ABN summit, both from the board of directors and from the underlying summit, partly because of our joint amendment, will not be able to receive variable remuneration. That means something to the types that can be attracted. It also means something to the culture of the bank. For example, three or four points have been secured in order to focus more on the long term and less on the short term. I asked Mr Zalm about this in the hearing we organised. He's agreed to endorse it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u36	Mr Zalm said this a year ago; he always said that. Yet you saw what happened this year. You saw the self-enrichment that was at the top. I am surprised that Mr Nijboer is satisfied that there is a passage about service. He therefore thinks that this will make the bank serviceable and socially responsible. That's easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u37	No, I think it'll help. I have a whole package, a protection structure, statutes, a long-term strategy that has been explained, controlled remuneration policy, which I am now asking for in addition. So it's not one sentence in the statutes, but it belongs together. That's how it's gonna be secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u38	Can Mr Nijboer explain to me how this controlled remuneration policy has been secured in the long term? In any case, I can imagine that is not in the minds of the current drivers, otherwise we would not have experienced the whole soap opera a few months ago. People are still there. You're gonna lose control of the state. Can Mr Nijboer explain to me again how on earth that can be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u39	I have also heard the apologies of the chairman of the Management Board about how that went. The wage increase to which they first wanted to hold is gone, partly because of social pressure, political pressure and also employees themselves who were angry about it. So something has actually changed. The Netherlands has introduced the strictest bonus legislation in Europe. The variable remuneration in the financial sector, including ABN, is limited to 20%. As long as the State still acts as a savior or participates in ABN, this policy is even more stringent, partly because of the amendment that I have designed together with Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u40	Does Mr Nijboer agree with me that as soon as the state's grip is off, those salaries will grow by tons in no time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u41	No, that will not be possible, because we know the strictest bonus legislation in Europe here. We have had extensive debates on it. The bonuses are limited to 20% of the salary. That will have a real impact, even for ABN. The financial sector is sometimes hard-earned, I admit that Mr Grashoff, but one will have to learn to apply normal remuneration relationships again. We have secured this in the near future, including the amendments I tabled with Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u42	I was wondering whether Mr Nijboer also agreed with us that the 22 billion that the taxpayer lent to the bank should be returned completely. Or is he going to lose 6, 7, 8 billion to the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u43	I would prefer to get more than 22 billion in return, but I do not understand Mr Van Dijck's speech on that point. He says if we get 15 billion, we're gonna have 7 billion in loans. As an investor, when you buy something with a loan, you usually pay a little less for it. If you buy something of 15 billion with 7 billion in loans, you pay less. I did not understand Mr Van Dijck's reasoning. If he can explain to me how you can get 22 billion from investors for something worth 15 billion, then I'm his man, because I prefer to get as much back as possible for ABN.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u44	I am pleased to have the opportunity to explain this in this interruption. The bank promises a small 2 billion in dividends. If it takes us three years, we'll have $6 billion. That 22 billion has to be returned, so my proposal is that the stock market is spread so that that difference can come back via dividend as a loan. If Mr. Nijboer takes out a mortgage and sells his house, he'll be left with a residual debt. Why couldn't we do that at the bank with a residual debt towards the taxpayer? That's only fair. That is what the bank is asking of us; that is what the taxpayer can ask of the bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u45	I think it's a bright idea. Somehow I feel that you are not getting the billions that way, but I would like to ask the Minister whether this is an opportunity to get 22 billion instead of 15 billion. If it is as simple as Mr Van Dijck says, then we must seize that opportunity immediately. I fear, however, that this will not be the case. I still have two short closing points. The first is the remuneration of the business bankers. There is a whole analysis thank you for that; it was also done at the request of the Chamber to the remuneration structures of the business bankers. The possibility is left open to keep that reward variable. The PvdA asks why a fixed reward has not been chosen. You just pay for a service and you pay good money for it. I find it hard to defend that to depend on the price, which means you've lost millions more to those business bankers. Why is that kept open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u46	Your final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u47	My final point concerns the share of the population. The PvdA is in favour of people simply buying a share of ABN. The hearing suggested the possibility of free registration. I don't know if that's possible. That is the same question I would like to put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u48	Mr Nijboer said that he had set three conditions for the admission of ABN AMRO. The loss of EUR 7 billion is not included. I therefore assume that the Labour Party will take that loss of EUR 7 billion. It is the same Labour Party that has hurt citizens very much in recent years with the cuts. A lot of money has been taken from the citizens. This now goes to the stock market of ABN AMRO, to commission funds from 150 to 200 million euros and to wealthy people. Mr Nijboer is going to be canvassing again soon, I suppose. How is he going to explain this to the ordinary citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u49	As I did in this debate. We have set three tough conditions that have been filled in by the cabinet and I have asked a few more follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u50	For a Social Democrat, Mr Nijboer is playing a reverse Robin Hood with this story. He takes money from ordinary citizens and gives it to wealthy citizens in society. That doesn't suit him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u51	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u52	It's been noted. Mr Öztürk's contribution has been recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u53	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of April, we had a heated debate here on the planned and re-absorbed salary increases at ABN AMRO. This was reason for the government to postpone the IPO. The CDA was able to understand that decision, because confidence in the bank had to come back. However, less than a week after the public apology of ABN AMRO's CEO, six weeks after the debate, the Minister felt that confidence had been restored. The Minister took a rash and far-reaching decision, but came back to it very quickly. The complaint we have often heard that the government is not acting reliably has once again been confirmed. Can the Minister say what made him decide to conclude that trust in ABN AMRO has been fully restored? The CDA is wondering whether confidence in the bank should indeed be all the way back at the moment. We see that the bank is not yet acting as we would like to see it on too many dossiers, i.e. interest rate derivatives and special management. The question is therefore whether the CDA can currently support an IPO of ABN AMRO. I'll come back to that later. During the April debate, the CDA stressed the importance of taking a decision that would provide a stable bank in the long term. The CDA also wants a private bank, because banking is not a task for the government. We believe that ABN AMRO should continue to play the role of financing SMEs and large businesses. Finally, the CDA wants a protection structure to be established. We welcome the fact that the Minister intends to market only 20% to 30% of the shares this year. It provides us with sufficient guarantees to see if the bank can truly live up to its trust. If the bank breaks the confidence, we can stop the further sale of shares for the time being. Does the Minister share our conclusion that after the sale of the first tranche, the government can still decide not to issue any new tranches, in order to keep the pressure on the boiler? The CDA welcomes the Minister's announcement that private sale of the remaining interest is not excluded. The CDA would like pension funds, for example, to have a large share of the bank, in order to ensure stability. That can also be done above hand, but that brings with it its own dynamics. Stability is also guaranteed by the protection structure chosen. The CDA is content with that, but I ask the Minister why it was not chosen for the construction with a gold share for the government. Such a construction could provide a little more certainty, depending on the conditions you attach to it. We are well aware that this is difficult for European law. However, if it is properly designed, it should be an option from the point of view of protecting financial stability. The ECB still has to approve the protection structure. Is the Minister prepared to consider the option of the gold share within the current proposed construction? All in all, the CDA can agree to the cabinet decision to sell ABN AMRO. Most of our demands have been met. We are careful not to get too excited about the sale, because let's not forget that in 2008 we bought a bank with taxpayers' money that will yield billions less seven years later. That's not pretty. Let us not forget the employees of ABN AMRO. Thousands of them have been fired. Especially in the early years, they had to watch the bank, on which they were always proud, falling apart due to miserable governance. Although the CDA remains of the opinion that the rescue of ABN AMRO was necessary for the public interest, it is an episode from parliamentary history that we prefer to leave behind quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u54	Mr Merkies, we have not agreed on the number of interruptions. I was actually thinking of two, but since we didn't agree to it, I'm going to allow this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u55	I'm a little surprised about that proposal about the gold stock. The CDA wants to do a tranche first, then look further and maybe make a pass on the spot. You're gonna run a hell of a risk with that gold stock, aren't you? We know how it went in the past with KPN. Then we thought we'd be okay with that golden share, but it turned out that Salmon had flagged back, indeed through Europe, and suddenly we had nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u56	That's right. That is why I would like to emphasise that we recognise that European law will not be easy to define properly how it should be regulated. We do think it is worth looking at that very closely. If you insert a gold share construction, you have also guaranteed the security, should the STAK be decided not to be active anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u57	If you could always be clear about everything from the European Commission in advance, it would be a different story. However, if you can still be whistled back, you do have a problem. Then you've done that golden part and you'll get the same thing that happened to KPN.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u58	That is why we are asking the Minister to reconsider this. In addition, we think it is worth a try, because it would mean strengthening the protection structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u59	Mr. Chairman. ABN AMRO was never meant to come into government hands. The government is not a banker. Unfortunately, it did happen in 2008: an emergency grip to prevent worse. Now, almost seven years later, a start can be made with the sale. D66 is in favour of bringing ABN AMRO back to the market. There are no good reasons for keeping ABN in government hands. I will come back to that in detail later. With the sale of ABN, part of the damage can be reimbursed to the taxpayer. With the proceeds, the government debt can be reduced. I would like to address three issues today: the reasons for the sale of ABN, the expected proceeds and the protection structure. I'll start with the reasons for selling. In recent months, it has been frequently suggested that ABN should remain a state bank. The arguments for this do not convince my group. Firstly, the present ABN AMRO is not a simple savings bank. It has many business activities, is internationally active and has many internationally operating companies and SMEs as customers. This means that the service is complex and must be. It would simply be capital destruction if ABN were no longer allowed to carry out these activities as a state bank. Second, banks do not perform better than private banks. In fact, the CPB concludes that state banks are often less efficient. Experiences abroad show that many state banks are not better at investing in the real economy either. Moreover, there is no guarantee of continuity. Government banks have also been in many difficulties in recent years, as have cooperatives. Thirdly, the public interest can be secured by legislation. Not only state banks have to comply with the laws and regulations we have made here in recent years. It applies to all banks, not just state banks. It would be unfair competition if there were a state bank. It would have advantages over the other players. All in all, I don't see any arguments for keeping ABN in state hands. An IPO is therefore preferable by my group. Then I come to my second point: the expected revenues and costs. It is unclear what ABN has cost exactly. It stands for about 22 billion in the books and the proceeds will be much lower; we need to be real about that. So there's a big loss in there. That we therefore have to wait with an IPO and first try to extract the losses from the past would be an unjustified conclusion. Investing in a bank is inherently risky. Future dividend is uncertain. The State, the government, is not an investor and should not take risks with taxpayers' money. For example, if ABN AMRO is going to suffer from a capital shortage in the future, the government as a shareholder will have to make up and the taxpayer will be the loser. After an IPO, ABN AMRO can go to the market itself to raise capital. That risk is high, is present. Should the state want this? That brings me to the third point. I'm gonna wait, because I see two people coming to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u60	Only one: Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u61	I didn't think I'd be seen twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u62	Mr Öztürk also arrived.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u63	There is indeed another supporter of Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u64	Mr Koolmees made it very clear that the State should not take risks with taxpayers' money. Let's face it, we have done so since 2008. The economy is recovering. The bank is still in the process of getting the capital buffers in place. We are getting new regulations that might be about strengthening them. We have a financial sector that is not yet considered safe. Does he therefore agree with me that postponing this for a few more years cannot be a matter of principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u65	This attitude by GroenLinks surprises me, to be honest. I also heard it in Mr Grashoff's speech. In fact, Mr Grashoff says that the State is a good investor. This is where the assumption is that we can achieve risk-free returns. Of course it isn't. We took risks by nationalizing that bank. That's what costs have been incurred. It is not at all said that such a bank is always profitable in the future. As a government, we also had to borrow money for it. We had to borrow more than 22 billion on the capital market. We had to run out of money to buy that bank. That's what we pay interest on every year. What if the interest rate is going to rise over the next few years? We have to pay more every year because that bank's dividend is disappointing. We're gonna lose on it as taxpayers. I honestly do not understand Mr Grashoff's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u66	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u67	It is of course very nice that Mr Koolmees is counterattacking here. That makes the debate more exciting. If you know that you are at risk, do you choose the moment when those risks are best manageable and you are best able to make things as beneficial to the taxpayer as possible? Isn't that just a logical and financially sensible policy? Does Mr Koolmees agree with me that this is a wonderfully chosen time? It is more politically driven than driven by the economic and financial position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u68	I have three answers to this. First of all, I'm not an investor. Anyone who says he knows the right time to go to the stock market tells a myth. Secondly, no matter how you turn or turn it, the State should not want those risks from the bank. Now is the time to bring the bank back to the stock market. Thirdly, over the last few years, we have been building up a banking union throughout Europe, precisely to ensure that all these risks from banks can no longer end up with the government, but with the shareholders or the providers of debt. All these movements are meant to push away the risks of the banks from the government. Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks's reasoning is that the government should mainly continue to bank and bring in the risks, because this is good for dividends and therefore also for public funds. I think that is a remarkable reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u69	Whatever risks we push away, if it goes wrong with a system bank, the taxpayer will have to pay for it. That is my first observation. My second observation is that we have had ABN AMRO for seven years. Mr Zalm was grateful to us for giving him the opportunity from a distance to be able to bank properly. The bank's doing great. The economic outlook is good. We're going to make a profit, but the moment we can reap the benefits from the bank, you say, I'm not an investor. Over the last seven years, we have taken those risks, but now you're leaving it to the market. The moment we can repay the taxpayer...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u70	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u71	...for what's invested, you say you're giving the money to the wealthy people. Is that the D66 line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u72	Firstly, the taxpayer must pay if a system bank goes wrong. In recent years, we have been working on capital buffers and a banking union to prevent this. If it goes wrong, the shareholders and the lenders of debt will pay. This is what this minister's entire policy, including the establishment of the Banking Union, is aimed at. My group warmly welcomes that. Secondly, in Mr Öztürk's reasoning, the value of ABN AMRO is completely separate from the profit that is currently being made. Of course it isn't. The value of ABN AMRO, i.e. the proceeds of the stock exchange, is determined by the bank's current profits and investors' expectations of profits in the coming years. If expectations don't change, the bank's price doesn't change either. I don't know if I can explain it any better. I see the Minister agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u73	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u74	It's a good thing the Minister decides how to explain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u75	I'm trying to find out where Mr Öztürk's reasoning error is. He says: if we make a profit over the next few years on ABN AMRO, which is more than the cost of loans we have to buy ABN AMRO, then we have to keep the bank under control until all the proceeds are back. On the other hand, the value of the sale of ABN AMRO is entirely determined by the bank's profitability. Moreover, if you keep the bank on the government balance sheet, those risks remain on the government balance sheet. Then the risk remains that the taxpayer will have to pay a much larger bill if it goes wrong in five years' time. You shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u76	I understand we shouldn't want the government to act like an investor. But the moment you find out that the bank is going to be okay in the next few years, most analysts have also indicated this, so I think you are failing the taxpayer by going to the stock market now. I do not understand why Mr Koolmees wants this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u77	If the analysts think that things are going better in the coming years, the analysts expect ABN AMRO to make more profit in the coming years. This is thus incorporated in the proceeds of the sale of ABN AMRO. The protection structure affects the yield. Certification is now chosen instead of the intended foundation continuity. This is because of a bureaucratic reality. If that foundation wants continuity in action, it is first necessary to request a declaration of no objection from the ECB in Frankfurt. Officially, the ECB may take a minimum of 60 days. With a foundation administrative office such a vvgb can probably be requested in advance. I ask the Minister whether it is true that there is no further substantive consideration on the basis of this. The IPO can yield a billion less by opting for a STAK. My group has questions about this: it has been found by the ECB that such a non-objection declaration can also be given in advance for such a foundation certification. What discussion has been held on this subject? At the hearing, we heard from Mr Abma of Eumedion that this is perhaps an alternative that costs the taxpayer less and is more in line with the Corporate Governance Code. I'd like to hear a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u78	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u79	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to agree with the Members on the number of interruptions: a maximum of two and an interruption, namely a question and a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u80	Mr. Chairman. I have tried to sort out some of the questions and comments. Many similar questions have been asked by Members along a number of themes that I will quickly go through. This concerns first of all the moment of delay. Some members have understood this as an indefinite postponement of the IPO. The only thing I have told the Chamber is that I postponed the final decision on the green light until the IPO. I let the Chamber know because I promised the Chamber that we would take that decision in the first quarter of this year. So it seemed polite to me to send a letter with the content: that is not going to work anymore. At that time, however, there were grounds for postponing that decision. But of course it was not certain whether this would lead to a postponement of the IPO at that time. It could still be before the end of the year, and then we have not been delayed at all. Moreover, I would like to add that I do not know, in practice, whether it will happen before the end of this year. As far as I am concerned, many of you have said that it is important to ensure that the proceeds are good and that we get back as much as possible for the taxpayer; if the preparation of the whole process takes a little more time then we simply take them and then it becomes the beginning of next year. That is not a political totem pole for me. So the moment of that decision is a little later. That just seemed right to me. At that time there was a discussion with three reasons, of which, of course, the issue of remuneration was the biggest and the heaviest. That's been corrected by the bank itself. This has undoubtedly also been done by political pressure, but I think in the first place because of the enormous pressure from the company itself. That was well understood by the board of directors in the end. In relation to the bank's workplace, all employees and everything that has happened and still has to be done in recent years, it was a really bad signal. That's clear. Mr Zalm also said the necessary sensible thing about it later. Does that mean that the trust is back in its entirety? Several Members have said: and all of a sudden confidence has returned completely. No, the issues of Dubai and the Dutch Bank's monitoring letter have been handled well. That is no longer a question of trust in the bank for me. The issue of rewards has revealed, however, that there was still a gap in feeling the social climate and even the climate in one's own business. In this area, an important gesture has been made to society. This has led to the beginning of confidence restoration, but trust will really take time. This is not only an issue that ABN AMRO still has to deal with, but that applies to all banks in the Netherlands, especially the big banks. Trust in the banking sector is similar to confidence in politics: you don't score very high in the Netherlands. There is still work to be done. That will take years, but I am convinced that this board of directors is extremely motivated to restore that confidence. However, it will take years to complete. Questions have also been asked about timing. Can we do it now? After all, investigations are still under way and an internal review is still under way. However, internal audits will be more frequent and in several areas. Monitoring may also be requested by the supervisory authority in certain areas. ABN AMRO is a large company under extremely strict supervision. In addition, things that are not good can come up, and they need to be dealt with. Sometimes it takes an investigation, and then it goes on. That's not much different with other banks. The Rabobank has also had some affairs in recent years that have led to investigations and internal audits. This is how things are handled. I'm not gonna wave it away with that. These are real problems that need to be addressed in a real way. For me, however, the fact that there is still an investigation into an issue is no reason to postpone for me the fundamental question of whether we opt for an IPO, whether the circumstances are good, and whether the conditions laid down are fulfilled. I have already said that between now and the final sale something will happen at ABN AMRO, just as things are happening at other companies. Those cases are coming out. We need to take action against that. That is my main point. In doing so, I am convinced that the bank is in a better position, not only in terms of business, but also in terms of organisation and issues such as integrity and compliance. DNB has indeed done a thematic research on this and has written to all banks with recommendations: you need to change this, you need to ensure it better, you need to take care of it. The letter for ABN AMRO has come out and everyone immediately thinks: oh dear, it's bad stuff there. No, it's just a list of recommendations for issues to be addressed by ABN AMRO. That is also the job of a supervisor. These recommendations are being taken up; they have already been taken up to a large extent. After that, the supervisor goes back to see if things are better secured. That's how it works with surveillance letters. Such processes in the banks continue continuously and I only see that as an improvement. Then I come to the question of servitude. Are you sure the bank's serviceable? Mr Grashoff spoke about this. It is also an important issue for Mr Nijboer. At his initiative, the relationship with society, the preparation of the public interest and the public task of a bank is now included in the statutes. I believe that this is an important guide for the future, but I cannot guarantee this entirely, because statutes can be changed. However, it would be very striking if an institute such as ABN AMRO were to take something like a social mission out of the statutes at the moment. I trust that this task will be taken seriously and put at the centre of attention. It includes legitimate interests of customers, savers, depositors, shareholders, employees and society in a broad sense. That's the bank's duty of care. During the round table, Mr Zalm continued to do so. He also discussed the importance of controlled remuneration policies, sustainability, corporate social responsibility, the no longer financing hedge funds, the no longer engaging in trust activities and the no longer doing proprietary trading, i.e. trading on his own account. He wants to be a leader in the field of diversity and he wants to continue to serve the Dutch banks, also internationally. It is a rather ambitious programme, in which service is central. Should we treat or continue to treat ABN AMRO, because this bank, due to circumstances that have called several members, looking back on 2008 and earlier on, has come into state hands? I don't think so. I really don't agree with that. I believe that the Dutch banking sector should be in full order, whether it be a cooperative bank, a listed bank or a state-owned bank. Banks need to be on duty. We now have a very wide range of laws and regulations for this. Some say that is even too broad, but we will evaluate that in a few years' time. I think we have quite rightly drafted these laws and regulations. The requirements and supervision have been strengthened. The banks are now much better in financial and economic terms and their orientation has really changed. Today's ABN AMRO is really a different bank than ABN AMRO before the consortium's acquisition, not only in scale but also in activities, risks, orientation and interests that are put first. This brings me to the longer term remuneration policy. The remuneration policy applicable to all banks in the Netherlands also applies to ABN AMRO. Now the bank is still supported by the State and is still subject to the bonus ban for the top and the management layer underneath, thanks to the amendment by Mr Nijboer and Mr Merkies, but when the bank is fully privatised, it is just under the same law for remuneration policy as the other banks. I think that's right, too. I do not see why we should continue to treat a bank differently from other large banks in the long term, unless there is a difference in substance, for example in terms of risk policies or buffer requirements. At this point there is a distinction between banks, but not in the fact that one is a State bank and the other is listed on the stock exchange. Mr Merkies has specifically asked me not to step over it. What investigations are still under way at ABN AMRO? Two further investigations are ongoing in response to whistleblower reports and ABN AMRO is itself reviewing the customer portfolio in Dubai. Mrs Schouten already referred to that. It will be completed in the fourth quarter. A lot of questions have been asked about timing: why now? If you're already doing it, why now? Why not delay, why not wait? The most important answer has already been given in previous debates and today by Mr Koolmees: the State is not an investor. Because of the need we have entered into this to protect the financial and economic system in the Netherlands. It has always been the intention, also of my predecessors of Bos, Balkenende and De Jager................................................................................................................. The conditions for this have not changed either. They have always been that the sector should be stable, that the bank should be in good shape and that there should be interest in the market so that we can sell it at a reasonable price. It's purely speculative to assume that we're facing golden years. I hope so, but I don't know. And if I wanted to speculate, maybe there are other investments that are even more profitable than banks. But then we have a very different debate with each other. Then we have to have the debate together on how much additional public debt we would like to absorb in order to invest, and that, of course, is not how we are in it. The question is whether this has added value to the issue of getting the bank stable and keeping it stable and keeping it stable. That was initially the objective. Does it have any added value for that now? When you look at where we stand, you see that added value is no longer there. The bank saves itself and looks good. The sector is in good shape and is holding itself together. Mr Öztürk said that large banks must always be saved by taxpayers. I am very sorry, but things have changed since 2008 and 2009. No, the sector is stable and in good shape. The bank is stable and is also in good shape. Then the reason why we ever got into it is gone. This bank will be governed by ordinary law and rules and will be subject to all the requirements of service, soundness and remuneration policies applicable to other banks. That's how I look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u81	I am missing a fourth objective in these objectives, namely to minimise the loss of taxpayers. If I read that the bank made more than 500 million net profits in the first quarter, I would take that 2 billion this year to pay off the debt, the taxpayer's loan in any case, so that it is no longer 22 billion, but 20 billion because we have recovered 2 billion in dividends. If we do that for two more years, we'll talk about 16 billion and we'll get close to the 15 billion this minister thinks he's going to pick up. Soon the investor will run off every year with 2 billion returns and the taxpayer will be left behind with 7 billion debts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u82	2 billion seems rather wild to me, but here again we see the speculative element. Mr Van Dijck seems to assume that these returns will continue to increase and be maintained. Here too, however, my reasoning is that in that case we should ask ourselves what we could best invest in if we had 15 billion or 22 billion. Perhaps there are better investment funds than ABN AMRO to come up with. But that can't be the reason for the state to keep its money in that bank, because it's so well-rewarded? I'm sorry, that's not how we got in. We have stepped in to maintain the stability of the institution and of the sector. It is now guaranteed again, and that is what has happened. Meanwhile, dividends have been received, but there have also been a lot of interest charges on the amount invested. Mr Van Dijck also asked a question about this. I'll get to that in a minute. We're not going to treat ABN as an investment object and stay in it for years to make as much profit as possible, because that's just what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u83	Finally, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u84	If the objective had been to keep the loss to the taxpayer as small as possible, then you can look at the timing of the sale. The bank is doing well now; ABN has a record net profit of 500 million in the first quarter of this year. Then you might ask yourself whether this is the right time to bring the bank to the market or whether we are taking a dividend for another or two years and thus keeping the residual debt to the taxpayer as small as possible? Well, that's a logical argument, isn't it? When are you gonna sell something at the best price?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u85	Again, but it's a repeat of moves. Mr Van Dijck says: we have money in it now; there comes a return on that, let it sit, then we can cash. That is what Mr Van Dijck says. The bank as a milk cow. And then we get out at a time when things are getting worse. I would like to give Mr Van Dijck a note that the 15 billion which is now referred to by our advisor as a possible return, when things are worse, of course, is no longer 15 billion. I don't think the government should ever approach it like that. The government is forced into this, with the aim of saving the bank and stabilising the sector. Both have happened and we are now going to try to make as much of our money back as possible. This is a good time, because the circumstances are also good. That was our third condition. Is there any interest in the market to take over these shares? We're going to try to make as much of that money back as possible, but we're not going to keep public debt unnecessarily longer at a very high level. Mr Van Dijck may think that money is free, but it is not. There's invested capital in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u86	I must say that I am extremely annoyed that here, when you want to have a serious discussion about what is the right time to get a bank out of state hands, you are being accused of investing in an investment object, in the vein of: then we can also invest in something else. Of course it is not, and I am not going to let it talk me into it in this debate. That is what Mr Koolmees has done, and the Minister is doing it. I don't think that's right. The discussion is whether this is a wise moment or whether you choose to collect 7 billion losses. It is not very common, but on this point I agree with Mr Van Dijck that this should be the subject of the debate, and not of one-liners if there were people. That certainly does not apply to me who are trying to ensure that we have a nice investment object. I do not think that is the level at which this discussion should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u87	I am very sorry, the last thing I want to do is insult Mr Grashoff by calling him an investor. By the way, many people would not see it as an insult at all, but he feels it as an insult. The point here is that we have invested a lot of money in this bank. We didn't do that to get a good return on it. That was never the question at the time when the then cabinet decided to save banks. If that had been the question then or if the question had been: when do we get our money back, because we want our money back, we probably wouldn't have done it. However, we did, then with broad support, because we knew that the bank would go down otherwise and that the financial sector in the Netherlands would suffer an incredible blow, with huge consequences for companies and citizens who have their money in that bank and are dependent on it. At the time, our consideration was not "b" and I do not mean this at all as a "you" or as a reproach to Mr Grashoff if we were going to get our money back. The balance was stability. This stability has now been achieved and we are faced with a new balance. We're gonna leave our money in there now? Then it's really legitimate to ask the question against what you're weighing that down. State debt is very high. It's gotten huge in the time of the bank rescues. Maybe we should lower the government debt. The argument I hear is: yes, but we make such a good return. Is that a good return? Do we get the price we can get now, two years from now, four years from now, or six years from now? I don't know when GroenLinks might want to sell. I repeat, I don't mean it annoying, but that's really speculating with all due respect. You speculate, Mr Grashoff: leave that money in it, because it is now very profitable and then we can make money on it. I don't think that's a good approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u88	It was about it, it's about it, and it's about how you deal with all the consequences that this had. The Minister does not have to tell me the history of the banking crisis, because I know it. We have carried out a rather detailed investigation into this in the Committee of Inquiry which I was allowed to be part of. The issue here and now is how to avoid the loss to the taxpayer as much as possible, or... how to get as much social return as possible from what is now the situation on the ground. I note that the Minister did not make a serious assessment of other forms, which I believe might have cost even more money, but which could have made the bank more socially committed. The simple solution of the IPO with a large loss is chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u89	Yeah, I'm making another choice, because I don't see why this bank should stay in state hands for a long time or indefinitely to anchor him more socially. For me, the whole banking sector needs to be much more socially anchored. This is about the issue of trust between society and the financial sector. That doesn't just apply to this bank. I don't see why state ownership should be the instrument for that. So maybe we don't feel the same way. I come to the question of costs. Those charges have been made. You can't reverse that. They've sunk. The question now is: should we stay in it? What if there's 15 billion in it? We don't know the final value yet, but let's take that amount as an example. Is it now the best social or financial investment to leave that 15 billion in the bank, when it no longer needs to be? It doesn't have to be for the bank's future anymore, because the bank is in good shape and things are getting better and better. It does not have to be for the stability of the sector, because the sector is stable again and it is improving every year. Then why would you keep the money in there? Then you come to the answer: because it is financially attractive, we can make a profit from it and make money back. However, you will find that in a very different discussion and, sorry, I think it is legitimate to ask the following question. Do we really want to keep public debt at a higher level in order to invest that money somewhere in order to make money for taxpayers? That's possible, but why do you invest it in ABN AMRO? Why would you happen to invest the 15 billion in that? That is, after all, a trade-off that the Chamber makes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u90	We can have a fundamental discussion here about state participations, because the State, of course, has investments in a lot of companies. So that's not unique. However, it was not the intention to buy ABN AMRO at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u91	Not as an investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u92	No, but we never considered ABN AMRO an investment either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u93	Voila, that's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u94	We have considered ABN AMRO to be a bank that unfortunately I say that it had to be saved for many other reasons. Then it's a political question when you bring that bank back to the stock market. That's what this discussion is about. The Minister himself says that the conditions are now ideal. He says: the market is stable, the bank is stable, the sector is stable; we have to go. Then my question is: why not all at once? The Minister himself states that he first wants to sell 20% to 30% and then more and more depending on market conditions. In other words, the Minister himself gives the argument of market conditions in order to bring the bank to the market only in part, but at the same time accuses the Court of using that argument to perhaps just put it in place now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u95	I am not blaming the Chamber, but I am in a debate with some Members of the Chamber who say: leave that money in it, because it is very profitable. I say that we have set three conditions, of which the first two are the most important. They can be traced back when we stepped in. Why did we step in? Because of the bank and the stability of the sector. Both are in order now. I hope that the Chamber will agree with me, otherwise we will have a very different discussion and we will have to do much more first. The third criterion is much more a contra-indication. Once again these two conditions are met, as far as I am concerned, the added value of the role of the government has expired. This is different from a number of state participations in which we are dealing because of market organisation questions, the unique function or problems we have to ensure the public interest through legislation and regulation. This applies to other State participations. In this case, the terms and conditions, the reasons why we got into this bank, have lapsed as far as I am concerned. The third point, whether the market is ready, is only a contra-indication. You don't get out immediately if the market is just not ready at the time, because then you're going to have such a bank for a very low price or not to give away. However, the market is also ready. Now that the real grounds for government intervention are gone and there is no counter-indication, let's go sell it. Of course we try to get the best possible yield, but that's different from the decision to stay in it because it's so well-rewarded. Mrs Schouten did not say that, but others did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u96	However, I would like to clarify the question as to what the Minister's weight is in terms of how much per cent he should bring to the market at what point. That is the same kind of discussion we are having about the question: why now? The Minister says: I want 20% to 30% now and then we're gonna watch each other again for years. That is almost as much a consideration as when the Court is wondering whether it is better to look at how the banking sector is developing, or whether it is stable. That's a legitimate question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u97	The grounds why we were born out of need once got into it are gone. The market doesn't say: this is the wrong time, so we're going to sell. Then you go with people who know about it and have that experience, see how you do such an IPO. Then I'll give you some advice. That's not a political weighting. I would like to look at that apolitically. An advice is: you start with a tranche of 20% to 30%, then comes a second and a third tranche. You make sure the market doesn't get overwhelmed. This will be one of the largest exhibition halls in Dutch history. You have to let the stock get a prize first. There's got to be a trade going on and then you move on. That's not a political choice. I did not make the political choice to do 20% now and look further next year. We are advised on the most sensible way. Of course you're trying to get an optimal yield. It fits a phaser.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u98	The Minister keeps saying: I don't want to do it, because what is the added value if we keep it in government hands? But you can also reverse it and ask yourself what the added value of bringing it to the market is? I do not really hear an argument from the Minister why it should go to the market, except that it is not the role of the government. That's not a reason, is it? I hope the Minister has more reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u99	Depends on where you're from. The SP always thinks that as many things as possible should be in government hands. I'm thinking about that in a nuanced way. I think banking is a business activity. It can have a major impact on society, and that is why we make all kinds of demands and have a supervisor for this sector. However, it is a private sector. Indeed, we have another discussion when you ask why it is actually a private sector and when you say: let the government run the banking industry. I don't think that's necessary. That would be the first consideration. Does such a service come about, does the banking offer come about if the government doesn't? The answer is yes. It's coming about. Could the government do better? That is very much the question, as has been changed in the first period. In the banking crisis, there have been as many government banks in trouble as non-government banks. The government's starting point is that the financial sector is a private sector. Given the societal impact that certain risks can have, we regulate that sector. But it's a private sector. And again, I have no arguments for taking a different approach at this bank. All the other banks are private. I haven't heard anyone argue for the nationalisation of ING. Then why not, so I would like to ask as another question. We seem to have no objection to all the other banks being private, but this bank, which is in our hands because of circumstances, must now remain with the State. I say there is a level playing field, all banks are private within a regulated sector. The same requirements also apply to ABN AMRO, also in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u100	Finally, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u101	I am not saying that the government is better at banking, but I am also saying that the private sector is better at banking. I'm just saying it can be in private hands as well as in government hands. The Minister makes it look like it's suddenly an investment if we keep it in government hands. He's mostly concerned about the state debt. The government debt can be refinanced super-cheap these days. The interest rate is very low, 1% for ten years. Mr Van Dijk said that we already had half a billion profits in the first quarter. I think it makes sense to go through with that. Based on a whole year, that would be two billion. Then the Minister can't say it's more important to bring down public debt because of the costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u102	Mr Merkies is now switching from a more fundamental debate... is it now public or private, and would it not be better if it were in government hands? Let's get back to the investment debate. I think that is an odd balance and I am very surprised which parties are now saying that we need to invest more in the financial sector. If we had ever entered the financial sector for this reason, perhaps it would be a good idea to sit still for a while to make our investments profitable, but we have not done so. Again, there are also costs for dividends. The dividends so far have raised 1.25 billion and interest on the capital invested 3.8 billion. Mr Merkies is counting on himself to think that dividends will enter the next few years, but that is purely speculative. I am surprised that parties like the SP in this way look at social capital, social money that is in this bank: purely as speculation. I couldn't defend that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u103	May I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u104	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u105	The fact that I switch is because I only have two interruptions here. That's far too little, too. I would like to make a number of points. It is therefore logical that I should like to discuss several points, but the Minister should not blame me on that basis. Of course, I would like to discuss the previous point in detail, but yes, you need longer interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u106	All right, you've made your point. The interruptions must be very short and the answers must be very short, because the next debate is scheduled to take place at 8.30 p.m. and we must conclude this debate at 7.30 p.m. Mr Öztürk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u107	The Minister puts down a number of parties that are trying to reduce the 7 billion losses as "investors." GroenLinks has made a number of attempts not to let him. The Minister is unjustly pushing us into a frame. I ask him to stop doing that. The parties who want to do this want to bring those EUR 7 billion tax dollars back to the people where they belong. Can the Minister not come up with more concrete alternative proposals than the only proposal he has now, namely to go to the market? What's the alternative? What other scenario does the Minister propose to take back the EUR 7 billion loss?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u108	We have taken this decision in several steps. In an earlier letter of Parliament, I believe it was sent a year ago, but we didn't get the date ready to go through the various alternatives. First of all, we considered whether the State should not keep the bank. We then looked at different forms. Earlier was asked to look at the cooperative form. We have looked at all kinds of different forms, but in the end we considered that an IPO is the most transparent and fair way of achieving optimal returns for this large company. That optimal yield at the time of sale is therefore not irrelevant to me; of course it is important! But that's different than asking if you shouldn't stay in it anymore because it's so profitable and there's dividends on the way. Some people think "invest" or "invest" is an ugly word, but this is really called "investment."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u109	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u110	I don't think "investment" is an ugly word, but you're placing us as speculators who want to speculate with community money. However, you could also come up with another proposal. What can it do if we let ABN AMRO go public in two years' time and what would the dividends and losses be? Then the Chamber could make a concrete choice, but you are not now giving us a choice. You say I've made up with Salmon, he's apologized and I'm gonna go to the stock market with 7 billion losses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u111	If I were to present an alternative to the Chamber now, for example to wait two, four or six years, I would have to fill in what the interest rate will be, what the stock exchange will do, how ABN's operating profit will develop itself, and so on. That's speculation. You will say this to me immediately: Minister, you are speculating, because you do not know this at all? That's the consideration you're asking of me. It is no longer necessary, because the reasons, namely the stability and the maintenance of the company, have disappeared, but you ask me if it is not wise to keep this capital in the bank. Then we could make money out of it. In doing so, you want to reduce the damage to the taxpayer. I share that objective with you, so we are not blaming each other in this area, but I would really advise you not to keep the investment in the bank any longer when it is not necessary. That is speculative. I cannot say whether the market will be better in two years' time and whether the share will yield more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u112	I suggest that you continue to answer the questions, because I think you are still at the beginning of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u113	No, I'm way ahead of you. Mr Merkies and Mr Van Dijck asked about the exact amounts of 24 billion versus 22 billion. The total expenditure on ABN, so the part we're selling now, amounts to 21.6 billion. That's where the $22 billion comes from. We have estimated the interest burden at 3.8 billion. For this we have multiplied the average outstanding debt on a cash basis by an interest rate, in which we have divided the total interest expenses from the years concerned by the average outstanding debt in the years concerned. Then you get to an interest charge of 3.8 billion in total. On the other hand, the dividend received amounts to 1.25 billion. That's how you get from 22 to 24 billion. So there are interest and dividend charges in the 24 billion. The balance is not positive. The cost of the IPO. I was encouraged by the Chamber to look very critically at whether they could be lowered. That has also proved possible. I read today in the media that an expert has said that it is impossible, that it should be 3% to 5% in Europe and that 4% is therefore more likely. You're right to ask me how I got 1%. This 1% is due to the fact that ABN AMRO's stock exchange introduction is special for two reasons. First of all, in privatisations, business banks charge lower fees. That's what you've seen in the past few years. People want to participate in privatisations and be part of the parties involved. I cannot explain the rationality behind that, but apparently that is positive for the conduct of the business banks concerned. Secondly, it will be one of the biggest stock exchange launches in Europe in recent years and perhaps also in the next few years. For this reason too, they want to participate and be part of the sales process. As a result, parties are about to launch highly competitive tenders. Our commitment is that the fee is about 1.3%. This is also reflected in recent major European privatisations, i.e. IPOs of companies that were previously state-owned. So it is really lower than the 4% Mr van der Sar mentioned in the media. Of course, this requires a lot of negotiation and good contracts. Mr Nijboer says he holds me to it, but I tell him that this is our commitment. We think it's possible, but I won't resign if it gets a little bit more. That's what I'm saying in advance. This is my bet. Mr Nijboer asked about the balance between fixed and variable remuneration for the bankers involved in this sales process. In general, the remuneration in the event of an exchange is dependent on the size of the subscribed shares. That's always seen in retrospect. Often it is a percentage of the proceeds at the market entrance. There's just an incentive in that, too. There are probably a lot of business banks involved, because we also want global coverage in sales. Once again, it's a very large IPO. I do not want to give all these business banks a fixed remuneration in advance and then see if they are actually going to contribute. It is extremely common to say that they can all play a role in it, and that we pay as successful as they are in it and hand over customers to take over shares. If it's not a success, or they don't do anything, they don't get paid. Mr Merkies asked about all the costs of the IPO, including NLFI, additional costs and protection. As has already been said, we are certainly trying to stay below 1% on the first tranche when selling. Later instalments are likely to be cheaper. After all, costs will be reduced. In addition, there are costs for legal and other advisers. We estimate it at 10 to 15 million. The cost of NLFI is largely charged to ABN AMRO. It is customary at NLFI that all costs are passed on to the companies we have in portfolio. Mrs Schouten asked whether the remuneration structure of business banks counts. NLFI has recently made a pre-selection, taking into account the experience banks have with stock exchange movements. That panel was announced to the public. We will choose from that. If this debate ends well, NLFI will start with the selection of consultants. It looks at knowledge, experience and price. The possession of a controlled remuneration policy is also one of the criteria. That will not be the Dutch standard, because then you will have lost all international business banks. I have already referred to this reality in previous debates in the Chamber. We are trying to achieve the best quality at the lowest possible cost. A lot of questions have been asked about protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u114	Of course, I also mean less revenue from the choice of a different protection structure, for example. If costs are charged by NLFI, I assume that also goes from the proceeds. There's something else I was worried about. There are several variants of IPO. One of these variants is a share of the population. This means that the shares are as fragmented as possible, so as many people as possible have small quantities of shares. In any case, the power is not in the hands of a few large parties. If ABN goes to the stock market, that would be our preference. The Minister says that selling a share of the population to private individuals does not lead to lower costs in the event of an IPO. Does he actually say: you want to save money, so we don't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u115	No, shares will also be sold through the retail channel. Ordinary citizens, small investors can also buy shares. It's just made possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u116	That was not entirely clear to me from the Minister's letter. If I can rely on his letter, it's gonna cost more. Is that in the cost? He himself says that this is not the cheapest solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u117	I have to come back to that in the second term. If it were a big cost, it wouldn't stop us. It has already been asked in the Chamber to ensure that shares are made available to small investors, if one so wishes. We're gonna take care of that. I don't know how interested it will be. We're not advertising it. I am not going to lure small investors into investing in this bank; that is what we really need to decide. That possibility is simply offered. If there is anything else I can say about the costs, I will return to them in the second term. I'm getting to the protection structure. We have a special situation. Some Members of the House have qualified it as a heavy-duty. Mrs Schouten said at some point even "very heavy"...... protection structure. You can find that, but it's a STAK. Although it is an administration office for issuing certificates, it is very well furnished as a foundation continuity. With the transfer of the certificates, the shares in the STAK, the control goes automatically and completely to the depository receipt holders. Only in the event of wartime, an imminent takeover or over-activist shareholdership, can the foundation become active and take control towards itself. So it's not a classic STAK. That is understood by many people: it is a STAK, so et cetera. Because the STAK only takes control and in the event of wartime deprives shareholders of their rights, in this case depository receipt holders, it works to an important extent as a foundation continuity. I like to say this. Apparently we should have explained this more in the communication, because too many people have concluded that it was an old-fashioned STAK. However, that is not the case. We have chosen to do this because, in the financial sector, there is the speciality that, at different times, including when a shareholder acquires 10% or more of the shares, a statement of no objection from the supervisor who is currently in Frankfurt must be requested. A foundation continuity can claim shares at the time it goes wrong, but only at that time does the new legal reality arise that forces it to issue a vvgb. Several members have asked whether a foundation can be set up for continuity, where a vvgb may be requested on a conditional basis. We discussed this with the ECB. The ECB says that the vvb procedure will only start if the legal fact arises that a shareholder receives 10% or more of the shares at once and thus control it. That's when we're gonna act. The simple creation of a foundation continuity that stands passively in a corner in peacetime is not a trigger for a vvgb procedure for us. Even if that were the case, we must realise that a vgb is a temporary declaration of no objection. If we ask for a statement in advance and the foundation has to act at once ten years later and claim preferential shares, then that statement of no objection is no longer valid, because it has a limited shelf life. We have long sought a solution on this issue. This is not a political issue for me; we simply want a well-functioning protection structure that provides certainty. We have discussed this with the bank for a long time. Our design is a novelty; we are renewing, because we make a STAK that works as a foundation continuity. The advantage of this is that the placement of the shares with a STAK immediately creates the legal fact that there is suddenly a shareholder who has more than 10% of the shares. We can therefore apply to the ECB at that time, i.e. at the time of placement and establishment. Of course, we have found out at the ECB whether our reasoning is correct and whether it will work that way. In itself, that has been confirmed. Of course, the ECB has not yet formally said that it will approve this; the ECB has only said that we can submit an application which will then be evaluated. On the basis of the discussions that have taken place, our expectation is that we will be viable, but let me say it with caution. The great advantage of this construction is that we can set up a STAK from the start. The shares will be placed there. We get a vvgb, so there is clarity in advance that the construction has been approved. And in wartime, we do not have to wait 60 days for the ECB's approval; we then have that approval in advance. Now it will undoubtedly all be said that the planned construction costs money. I'll say something about that right away. The Central Planning Bureau has looked at the cost of protection structures. I'm applying a single nuance to the CPB report and the underlying research material. This is almost exclusively about American research material from the 1990s. That was a different time than that in which we are now. The financial sector -- everyone, especially any investor -- knows that You can't just take over a company anymore. Investors therefore know that it is no longer possible to take over a bank hostilely. Most Dutch listed companies have a protection structure, so that's not new because they have to go to the supervisor today. In this context, which is really different from the situation in the US in the 1990s, I dare to question the statement that protection structures cost by definition 5%, 10% or any other percentage. In addition, I note that the Central Planning Bureau does not make a distinction. This is not how the underlying investigation was put together between one protection structure and the other. Some Members have said that the construction we have now invented is so heavy that it costs a billion, while a construction with a foundation would not cost continuity. At least you can't get that out of the CPB investigation. This makes no distinction between the different modalities of protection structures. It says on the basis of American research from the 1990s: protection structures cost money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u118	I see that some people want to interrupt, but first I want to know if the Minister has completed the part on the protection structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u119	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u120	I suggest the Minister finish that. Then one then gets the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u121	Mrs Schouten has established a relationship with the timing: because it has to now and the Minister is in a hurry with the IPO, there must be a heavy protection structure. I have already said something about whether it is so exceptionally heavy. My theorem isn't. She works as a foundation continuity. I don't see that relationship with the timing. Given the history and debates we have had before in the Chamber, I just think that if we put ABN back on its own, the bank should have a good protection structure, like almost all listed companies in the Netherlands have. So it has nothing to do with timing. If we did it one year or four years later, we would also have chosen this protection structure. It is a good protection structure with clarity in advance. They also asked how this relates to ING. ING has a foundation continuity and a STAK. The foundation continuity is the protection structure. The ING may still be looking at this in the light of the vvgb procedure at the ECB, but that is not what we are talking about. I say this in response to Mr Nijboer who asked me whether anything should be done about it. The other financial institutions in the Netherlands, which all have a protection structure, obviously do not need to have that, but the others are closely following this debate and this development. Mr Grashoff asked whether the protection structure is worth anything, whether it is maintained and whether we have 100% certainty about it. We have set up this foundation in such a way that in the first instance the directors are appointed by the minister after consultation and so on, but then they appoint each other. That's never 100% waterproof. There may be a sudden appointment of ex-boyfriend executives from the bank. I can't give a 100% guarantee. The Foundation, however, has a very clear objective, which we also lay down by law and has very clear instruments in its hands. It concerns the protection of the continuity of the bank and the maintenance of the functions of the bank for the Netherlands and the Dutch economy. The bank cannot simply be dismantled by the shareholders or the board. If the other way around the board of the foundation will say that it is no longer necessary, then the board of the bank will also have to give its approval in the future. However, it cannot be initiated from the bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u122	Thank you for the clear explanation of the operation of the STAK. It was already emphasised in the letter, but here it has been explained again how it works exactly. My concern was about ABN's own decision to dismantle the STAK. During the round tables it emerged that this was possible. Then I come to the point I made in my first term, namely the golden share. Are we, as a State, still able to block it by that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u123	You are right; my answers about the golden portion are on the wrong pile. In fact, the golden share of case law and past experience has become obsolete. That has to do with the permanent character. It also has to do with European judgments. The State owns itself with that one share, while it is a minority shareholder, very strong rights. European law is seen as contrary to the free movement of capital. In the case of KPN, it has resulted in a very specific ruling. One of the spokesmen referred to that as well. The State's golden share in KPN was in breach of European law. So that's been knocked down. That is why we did not choose to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u124	Is the Minister prepared to come up with a similar solution, with equal effect, in order to ensure the continuity of the STAK?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u125	As I said, this foundation, which eventually becomes independent, could lift itself. However, this must be done under all kinds of safeguards. Why would anyone do that? Again, a protection structure is nothing out of the ordinary in the Netherlands. I don't have the numbers here anymore, but the vast majority of all large listed companies have a protection structure with such a foundation. I have no reason to believe that it will be lifted soon or in a few years' time. However, you are asking for something else, namely: if it is not possible to do so via the gold stock, can you retain control in another way to prevent the foundation from ever being lifted? Then you'll have to deal with the same legal problem. The State may not assign itself, not by law, but certainly not to shares or whatever, as a small minority share of very large powers. I think that's what you're looking for, but that's not legal. Perhaps I will come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u126	The minister says we're gonna do something new. He pretends it's fun, like it's about innovation. I'm always in favour of innovation, but investors don't like it when it comes to these kinds of constructions. The minister says that he has nothing politically at all against such a foundation and that he would even prefer it. Do I understand the Minister correctly that it has been discussed with both DNB and the ECB and that there is no prior statement of no objection at the foundation continuity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u127	That's right. We've been looking into it. This was the big problem for us. In fact, if we do not have any prior assurance that the ECB is going to approve this when it is needed, we do not actually have a protection structure. Or we're 60 days of drunken game, to quote a term from De Prei once again. So we looked at how we could clarify a protection structure in advance, and how we could obtain prior approval from the ECB. Then we're done. Then it's there, too. We discussed this with the ECB and DNB. They have said that the legal fact of the placement of the shares above that threshold of 10% must be there first. After that, they can only give a vvgb. This cannot be done in advance or on a conditional basis or under assumptions. They don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u128	It's a bit about the interpretation of what's in the Financial Supervision Act. The existing foundations, however, are already reporting their share interests to the AFM. I think that is a certain interpretation of the Financial Supervision Act. Can't you deduce from that that it should also be possible to get a non-temporary vvgb prior to the foundation continuity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u129	There really is a legal difference between the reporting obligation and the vvgb in the financial sector. If you go over a certain threshold, you have to report that you have an interest. However, with the vvgb we say that you really need permission to acquire such a large share. That's the 10% threshold. They're really different procedures. One is, as you rightly say, with the AFM market supervisor and the other is with the financial supervisors, DNB and the ECB, who monitor the stability of the institutions and the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u130	Mr Van Dijck for his last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u131	The Minister says that we should be happy with Europe, because Europe must no longer have a golden share. Perhaps the wish for this was universally shared, but Europe is not allowed to do so. The foundation's continuity is now gone, although this minister preferred it. The same was true of Mr Zalm and all the people during the round table. They all said that such a foundation is actually better. It is also more accepted internationally. Now the minister has to come up with something creative, because it takes the ECB 60 days if necessary to issue a vvgb. I therefore ask this Minister once again to go to the ECB a little bit à la Thatcher. The conditional is not in his mind that the ECB should now give a vbgb in case it ever happens. When someone announces to take a 10% share stake, a vvgb is applied for. It will then be issued on a conditional basis, so that the ECB can take 60 days to get the final one. Isn't it strange that we lose 1 billion on the IPO because the artificial construction of this minister is much less accepted internationally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u132	I am very pleased that Mr Van Dijck once again suggests that this costs us 1 billion. That's bullshit. The CPB says that protection structures cost money, but has made no distinction between a STAK, a foundation continuity or other forms. So it's not that complicated. Our advisors also say that it is real to explain to investors. It's just explaining how this works, because one knows both forms. It's a combination of both. The central bank has a role to play in protecting banks. If Mr Van Dijck says 'they should stop doing so', then we have a very different discussion. I'd read the book "The Prey" again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u133	It matters to me that it lasts 60 days. Because it takes 60 days, we now opt for an artificial construction. The hearing indicated by several experts that certification has a negative taste in many international investors. The Minister can explain with a lot of words that it is a combination and you name it, but it simply deters investors. It costs money: whether it's 1 billion or 1.5 billion, maybe 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u134	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u135	The point is that the minister has to go back to the ECB and make sure that the 60-day period of time that is apparently the bottleneck is shortened, or that they issue a vgb conditionally, after which they are allowed to take their time quietly. The crucial question is whether the Minister is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u136	No, I'm not prepared to do that. We have found a good solution, which we have already found at the ECB. It's gonna work fine, and that's how we're gonna set it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u137	I also have a question. The minister says we have a STAK 2.0. We modelled it so that it actually looks like a foundation continuity, but without the problems of the statement of no objection. During the hearing it was said that this may be contrary to the Corporate Governance Code, the Code Tabaksblat, because this form is not known and is not even recognised in this code, and therefore there may not be a legal basis for it. Does the Minister recognize those remarks? How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u138	I recognize them, but I don't agree. Why would the equipment be in conflict? Because one thinks that this applies to a classic STAK but not to this proposal that control would be taken away from the shareholders. That doesn't happen, it just happens, just like with a foundation continuity, when things go wrong. The STAK will then have the opportunity to draw control. But when the shares are handed over, the certificates are negotiable and the control goes with them immediately. This is unconditional; people don't have to ask or pick it up. That control is just part of it, you'll get it. And then it looks like a foundation continuity: the control is with the shareholder, completely in line with the code.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u139	I'm going to go back to the ECB's rules of procedure. I think it is quite clear that the Lower House has a preference for a foundation preferred shares. I think it will offer the Chamber a great deal of comfort if it is confirmed again from the ECB why this is not possible and why it is really impossible. I would like to ask the Minister to give the Chamber some comfort as to whether the option proposed by the Minister would be the best, in the sense that he would look at it again and put it back to the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u140	I cannot just say that because I do not know whether the ECB is prepared to do so. Of course, we've been doing the right thing. Then they give an indication of how they explain their rules. Whether they're really willing to put it on paper and send it to us, I can't guarantee you. It is also a question of trust. We've had these conversations seriously. I do not prefer a novelty at all, but in the financial sector with the specific supervisory rules, a foundation continuity or a foundation preference shares remain a cloud of uncertainty. We really discussed that with the supervisors. Otherwise, I wouldn't tell you. Again, I have no political interest at all in making things more complicated than is necessary. I agree with you on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u141	The point is that, as a Chamber, we can answer to the taxpayer that we have the highest possible yield and not an unnecessarily heavy protection structure. If the ECB does not want to do it, but there is a possibility of a discussion and the Minister who is putting it back in a letter to the Chamber, that would really be worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u142	I'm gonna do my best. It's a shame it's necessary, but if it's necessary, we'll see if we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u143	I would like to come back to the other financial institutions in the Netherlands which apparently have a different protection structure and which follow this debate well. I thought they were being sent very far into the woods. If they have a protection structure that protects badly because there are waiting days in between, it might be a good reason to talk to the Dutch Bank or to those banks about whether they have their protection structures in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u144	That conversation is taking place. I just find it a little unfortunate to speculate here whether they are well protected. That's what you're doing right now, but well, that's inevitable. That conversation is taking place. It follows with interest the question we have had on the table, whether given the procedures, the vvgb and the fact that you cannot now ask for certainty, the protection structures are optimal. That question is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u145	Yes, that question seems to me to be relevant to the Chamber. Given history and two nationalized banks, I don't think that's a crazy question. Apart from the discussion, I would like the Chamber to be kept informed of the outcome of the discussions and, if necessary, to make adjustments to the protection of important financial institutions in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u146	I'm in a split now. Part of the Chamber asks: such a protection structure is actually too heavy, should the Minister do it? Mr Nijboer says: go talk to the other banks, so they will do the same. I do not see any role for myself on that last point. I think it is up to the banks themselves and to their board and shareholders' meeting to assess whether the example we developed in June for ABN AMRO deserves to be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u147	Are you going to finish? Or were you done already?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u148	I can stop. What can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u149	If you have a few more questions to answer, would you mind doing so quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u150	I do have some questions to answer. I can't do it any faster unless I leave out half the answer. I'm gonna answer some more loose questions. Mrs De Vries asked about the relationship with other privatisations, for example those of the Royal Bank of Scotland. I cannot say much about that, of course. There's just an interest in the market for these IPOs. The global stock market has sufficient absorption capacity. RBS is another company, which is also different from ABN AMRO, so we don't think they are in each other's way. Mrs De Vries asked about the use of green shoe. How is this settled? Is it in the transaction costs? Green shoe is a common method of stabilising the post-exchange rate. It has not been said that we are going to use it, but that possibility exists. If you use this method, you increase the size of the first placement, because you make the first placement even bigger afterwards. This results in a larger yield for the State. It does not lead to any other transaction costs. The question of whether we are going to do so is strongly linked to the evolution of the price of the share right after the start. Why is anchor investors working? We have not yet taken a decision on this either, but that possibility exists. In advance you will find a number of parties willing to participate, even before the start of the IPO (initial public offering). This can be used to increase confidence in this placement, as others will see that there are already anchor investors who are going to join in any way. This method has recently been successfully used, for example by Nationale Nederlanden. If we use anchor investors, then they will pay the usual introduction price.It will not be at a discount price.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u151	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I see that there is a need for a second term. Mr Merkies is already ready. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u152	That is short; I would have liked to say a few things. Mr. Chairman. The most important question was why the Minister actually wants ABN AMRO to go to the market. The answer to that was: that's why. I find that an unsatisfactory answer, I must say. You must have a better reason for that. I'm gonna cover the cost. The minister says he's going to bet on 1% of the cost of the IPO. Then I think: when the Minister says that he is committed to this, it becomes a lot more. I would like a real cost estimate. If you create a protection structure that, for example, gives you a discount of 10% on the certificates, that also costs you money. You can have good reasons for that. However, I would like there to be an overview of that, so that you just see what comes with it. We're already at a loss of 9 billion. What's next? For example, I'm thinking about a green shoe, and you can go on like this. I'd like to get a complete overview. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a great deal of uncertainty as to the expected cost of the admission to the stock exchange;]] [[Whereas a full understanding of these costs is necessary in order to be able to make an informed decision on the admission to the stock exchange;]] [[calls on the Government to provide full insight into the costs of the admission to the stock exchange;]] [[invites the Government to set a ceiling on these costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u153	Mr. Chairman. When I have a second house under water, I have no reason to keep it; it is my second house. I can sell my second house, but then I'm left with a residual debt. If I can get rid of the rest of the debt on the taxpayer, I'll sell that house right away, because what difference does it make to me? However, if that is not the case and I am left with the residual debt, it might be wise to wait a year when I see, for example, that the housing market is attracting and housing prices are rising again. If I wait a year, I'll reduce my residual debt. If the taxpayer cannot repay a loan from the bank, it is left with a residual debt. If the bank can't repay its loan to the taxpayer, it's "unfortunate." The Minister agrees that investors will soon run away with a return of 2 billion a year, while the taxpayer will be left behind with a residual debt of 7 billion. The PVV therefore maintains the view that the entire loan must be repaid to the taxpayer. That is why she is tabling this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that taxpayers helped ABN AMRO with 22 billion to prevent bankruptcy;]] [[Considering that the bank will be brought to the market at the end of this year and that it is still uncertain how much of the 22 billion will be returned;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the entire 22 billion is repaid to the State and not sell all the shares until then, so that there can be no salary increases and bonuses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u154	Does Mr Van Dijck mean that it must be repaid by the sector or only by ABN AMRO? In that case, I have the same question as Mr Nijboer, which is paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u155	No, refunded by ABN AMRO, so through the IPO. You should see it as a taxpayer's loan to ABN AMRO. Otherwise ABN AMRO would have been bankrupt. That loan must simply repay ABN AMRO, just like its customers must when they borrow something. The remaining debt must not be ruled out by this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u156	Mr. Chairman. The Minister said that the choice for the IPO of ABN AMRO is not a political choice. If that is the case, why is it included in the coalition agreement, have no other options been left open and must it necessarily be done this period of government? The Minister has convinced me about the protection structure. I thought it was very difficult, but in the light of the Minister's comments I am convinced that it has been a good protection structure. He did realize that. However, we continue to have our doubts about the usefulness and need of an IPO at the moment. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas ABN AMRO must be sufficiently strong and robust before the bank can be brought back to the market;]] [[Whereas this should include a longer period of rest and confidence in ABN AMRO;]] [[considers that the need to bring ABN AMRO to the market is lacking;]] [[calls on the government not to engage in an IPO now and to explicitly keep other options, such as a cooperative model, open in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Schouten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u157	Mr. Chairman. One of the main causes of the banking crisis was that very large listed banks were in the process of driving their returns to an unprecedented level, at the expense of very high risks, up to 17% to 18%. That was the starting point of the collapse of the banking system. So it was indeed in the sphere of the listed company. It is clear that we must be extremely careful when returning to the stock market. We cannot repeat the discussion, but I am still somewhat uncomfortable with the tone of this discussion. If you're reluctant about the stock market and you want the taxpayer to get his money back, you're mostly called speculator here. I'm gonna go a long way away from that. When it comes to maintaining sufficient control over future developments, this is the most important thing for GroenLinks by far. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important that the Dutch government controls the development of ABN AMRO and can block unwanted mergers and acquisitions;]] [[Whereas the chosen protection structure can be abolished again and thus does not guarantee sufficient control;]] [[whereas it would be desirable for the Dutch taxpayer to receive as much of the amount paid back to the bank as possible by dividend paid by ABN AMRO;]] [[calls on the Government to hold at least one third of ABN AMRO's shares,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u158	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his commitment to return to the foundation's preferred shares. I'm also glad he indicates that he's setting up the STAK, if that's what he's gonna be, as a foundation continuity. This makes it as light a protection structure as the foundation continuity. I would like to hear a confirmation from the Minister that he thinks this is understandable. In fact, I think the documents said that there was talk with investors about the foundation's continuity. I would like to hear a confirmation that such a STAK in a light form can be explained to the market, because that would mainly determine the price. My second point was temporaryity. I had an interrupting debate with Mrs Schouten. I think there was some confusion of speech. I was mainly talking about temporaryity in the context of wartime. I think Mrs Schouten understood me so that it was in peacetime, but perhaps the Minister can explain this briefly. My final point is timing. The Minister says, "I'll see when I can do it." I understand that you should not be too far from the old figures, but not too close to the new figures and results, so there is only a limited window of opportunity to do the IPO. I would be very much in favour of the Minister taking advantage of that moment to allow the IPO to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u159	Mr. Chairman. We have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ABN AMRO is a profitable bank, even in the difficult years of crisis;]] [[noting that the government intends to market this profitable bank with a potential billion-dollar loss;]] [[calls on the Government to use the principle in the decision-making process of ABN AMRO that the State (read: the taxpayer) should not make any losses on the purchase and support of ABN AMRO and that any euro issued by the State to ABN AMRO should return to the State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u160	Once ABN AMRO is sold, the salaries will be increased quickly, the bonuses will come back, the savings will be speculated again and you will see that the bankers will do the same again. Then there must be another minister to intervene. I would ask this Minister to break the circle in which we are now in, and to make sure that these things do not happen again in an economical manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u161	Mr. Chairman. I've got two more motions. The first is about the controlled remuneration policy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that a sober and serviceable bank has a controlled remuneration policy;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Bank's new statutes that ABN AMRO conducts a controlled remuneration policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u162	Following the debate just now, the PvdA has made it clear that the protection structure proposed by the Minister deserves support. It's a solid protection structure. At the same time, this is a reason to ask some questions about the protection structures of other financial institutions. I still can't get a clear answer to that, so that's why I typed a motion very quickly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for financial stability that the protection structure of major financial institutions is adequately and effectively designed;]] [[invites the Government to consider whether these protection structures have been effectively designed and to inform the House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u163	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the Minister did not go ice in making this proposal overnight, particularly when it comes to the protection structure. During my interruption, I saw some movement in the Minister's office. He is still willing to look very closely at the continuity of the protection structure and the possibility of a gold share. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the chosen protection structure for ABN AMRO may still jeopardise the continuity of the company;]] [[Whereas, in any case, a stronger protection mechanism is desirable in the coming years;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the possibility of a "golden share" in ABN AMRO as part of the protection structure and to submit it to the Court before bringing the first tranche of shares to the stock exchange,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31789-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u164	It is not a question of the definition of "the golden share."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u165	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the clear answer. As Mr Ronnes said, we did not go ice in one night. More than a year ago, we took the decision in principle before the IPO. At that time, all other alternatives were explored: cooperatives, institutional investors and long-term investors. Now the decision is ahead of us to do it. As has been said, my group is in favour of this. The central question of this debate is: investing or not? The figures given by the Minister on interest payments and dividends received are a good illustration. It amounts to 3.8 billion in paid interest and 1.25 billion in dividends received. Then you'll see it could be the other way around. We all think that ABN AMRO is going to make substantial profits over the next few years and that it will all be repaid, but in the meantime, the interest rate on the sovereign debt continues. D66 acknowledges that an expected loss of 7 billion is extremely acidic, but at the same time says to Mr Van Dijck and Mr Öztürk that it is unrealistic to deny reality. If you stay in it longer, you run the risk that your interest payments are higher than your dividends, which has happened in recent years. This increases the tax-payer's bill. That's what I wanted to say. Finally, I come to the protection structures. The Minister has received a motion from Mr Nijboer. I recognise his point and I am very interested in the Minister's response to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u166	I understand that the last motion has also been copied and that Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u167	Mr. Chairman. I will answer some outstanding questions first. Then I'll come to the motions. Mr Merkies owed me an answer. He specifically asked: what are the costs of a retail tranche, of selling to ordinary retail investors? Is that extra expensive? Yes, of course, that may entail costs, but they are in the cost estimate, as I said, which is less than 1%. The State therefore bears no costs for this. The banks participating in the sale also sign up for selling via the retail channel and will therefore also have to invest in it. That's part of the deal we make with them. Mr Ronnes asked again about the gold stock. He has also tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. I'll get back to you on that. Mrs De Vries has still asked about the STAK versus the foundation continuity. She specifically asked: is it now explanatory? Our advisors say it's explanatory, because investors really expect this exchange to go hand in hand with a protection structure. They would be really surprised if we were to sell ABN AMRO on the stock market without a protection structure. That would have been real news for investors. This is fully expected. One knows both forms and understands them. It's not that complicated. It is a STAK because the certificates are delivered to the STAK, but because control goes unconditionally and immediately with the certificate and is only claimed in case of calamity it works as a foundation continuity. It's not more complicated than that. We are, of course, going to invest in ensuring that there are no misunderstandings about this and that investors understand that correctly. I'm coming to the motions now. First of all, Mr Merkies' motion on item No. 65. He argues that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about the likely costs of the IPO. That's true. Only afterwards can we make fully clear to the Chamber what costs have been incurred for which parts of the sales process et cetera. I am happy to admit that, but it can only be done afterwards. So I can't solve that problem. I cannot therefore comply with the request to give full insight into the costs of the IPO. I've said and written a lot about it. It is our commitment to end up below 1%. The government is also invited to set a ceiling. It's an effort obligation. I'm doing it because I think it's feasible. If I deviate from that very strongly, the Chamber has reason to say so. However, it is not strictly a ceiling. I'm dissuading the motion. Mr Van Dijck's motion for a resolution 66 asks the government not to sell until the full 22 billion can be repaid. That is difficult, because Mr Van Dijck has also said that he can agree to the first sale of tranches. Investors are therefore entitled to know what the rest of the plan is and when it is being sold. Mr Van Dijck wants to place a loan in the cash register at ABN AMRO, so that we can get the difference back. Mr Van Dijck says that the difference is 7 billion, but we do not know that at all. Investors should know about the loan and that would damage the bank's profits. This means that there is less value, more debt in the bank, because that money still has to come out. I can't make it prettier. This is directly at the expense of the sale. That's not in our line. I also have a little trouble with Mr Merkies' comment on why I want to sell. He says, "Yes, that's why." I have heard his arguments, but he has also heard my arguments. He can't agree with it, but to sum it up as "that's why" doesn't seem quite right to me. We have entered it by circumstances related to saving the bank and to the stability of the sector. Those circumstances are no longer at issue. We consider the financial sector to be a private sector and that is why we are going to make this bank private again, within all kinds of supervision and public regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u168	What is your verdict on the motion in part No. 66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u169	I agreed to make this point to Mr Merkies. The motion in part No. Sixty-six, I'm gonna have to dissuade you. The motion in part No. Mrs Schouten's 67 pleads for more time. In any case, it does not want to enter into an IPO and wants to keep several options open. We have had this discussion not only today, but already in two previous debates. In that we have considered the cooperative model. The cooperative model is a very powerful model, especially when it comes from the bottom. But converting such a large company, worth 15 billion, into a corporation with members is an almost unimaginable operation. Then who are those members who put 15 billion risk into the company? Unless Mrs. Schouten wants to do the gift, but I'm sure she didn't mean to. Then we must find Members who now want to put 15 billion in it in the form of membership certificates or what is common in the cooperative world. In short, we have weighed this up and it is not our intention. We believe that the conditions for selling are met in the current circumstances. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 67. Mr Grashoff's motion for a resolution 68 wants the Dutch taxpayer to recover as much of the amount as possible by dividend. For this reason, I understand the motion, Mr Grashoff asks me to hold at least one third of the shares. Once again, we do not keep money in this bank because we would like to make money for taxpayers. That is a trade-off that we are not making. Mr Grashoff finds it annoying that I call this 'investment', but it is. Mr Grashoff is making an investment weighing up here to make money back for the taxpayer. That is a legitimate objective in itself, but that is not how the State is in the financial sector. A third of the shares also have an arbitrary size in that respect. Anyway, our choice is another one. The reason for sitting in the couch is no longer there, the circumstances are good and we're getting out. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u170	Mr Grashoff, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u171	I assume that the Minister accidentally oversteps a consideration, but I can help him with that. The most important consideration is "whereas the chosen protection structure can be abolished and thus this control is not sufficiently guaranteed'. In the cabinet's letter it was clear that the State's share position could provide that guarantee. I am therefore prepared to delete that second recital if the Minister can take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u172	You are right; I read too quickly about the considerations. The essence of the motion, when I read it as a whole, is that the government simply needs to have sufficient control. Then "at least one third of the shares" is important, because that does indeed give special control. That is also what we have statutory regulations on. But once again, our view is that public interests in the bank must be protected by legislation and regulation. They are also legally anchored, but they are the same for all banks. That is why I do not think it is right to lay down additional protection for this bank by another route or to guarantee the public interest in a different way. Then I should be able to motivate why we do not demand that from ING, Rabobank, SNS and all other banks. If we believe that public interests are not properly safeguarded, we should look at them, but as far as I am concerned, we are looking at legislation and regulations. So I'm deceiving the motion. The motion in part No. Mr Öztürk asked the government to use the principle that the State should not make any losses on the purchase and support of ABN and to ensure that all the money is returned. I have to discourage that motion, because I cannot accept this assignment. The purchase took place and we lost the money in that sense. It's been sunk. We are now faced with a new balance: are we staying longer or is this the right time to sell? In our opinion, the reasons for stepping in are no longer valid and this is a good time to sell. Of course, we will try to achieve the best possible price in these circumstances, which I regard as my task. As far as I am concerned, many considerations about how we are going to do it are not a political choice. Mrs De Vries also asked us at what point we are beginning, but I would ask the Chamber to give us the exact form at what time do you start, at what stage, and what steps do you take? I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. I will always inform the Chamber, but I cannot accept the order in Mr Öztürk's motion. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In the motion in part No. 70 Mr Nijboer asked the government to include in the Bank's new statutes that ABN AMRO conducts a controlled remuneration policy. I have already said that we are changing the statutes to anchor social positioning. I can see if we also include a hook in the statutes in relation to remuneration policy. Maybe that's symbolically very important. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If the Chamber so requests, we can include it in the statutes and I shall make a proposal to that effect. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 71 by Mr Nijboer contains an interesting task, which I do not actually consider to be part of the public service. I don't think it's up to the government to take stock of whether all the protection structures are in order. At ABN we have a special responsibility. That's the company we're selling. We put it on the market. Then you also have to decide whether you want a protection structure or not. I really think it's up to companies like National Netherlands or ING to decide for themselves whether they have the place in order. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u173	Mr Nijboer, you may ask one question about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u174	Of course, the board itself is responsible for the fact that it doesn't fall over. That's pretty weedy. In the end, we see that the taxpayer still runs some risks with the number of insurers and banks that we still hold proudly, including in the insurance sector. I would like a certain control of the Netherlands Bank, a report on it, or information to the Chamber about something that could have such a great effect. Does the Minister consider that there is no state responsibility and that reckless shareholders cannot pose a threat to insurers or other financial institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u175	Mr Nijboer is now saying it in black and white. Here's what I'm looking at. We have, of course, delineated all kinds of public interests in the financial sector with many laws and regulations and supervisors. If there is such a reckless investor who holds more than 10%, a vvgb must be granted by the Nederlandsche Bank. There are all kinds of locks and forms of surveillance on them. Suppose I take up this assignment, then I have to investigate their protection structure with all financial institutions. I have to report to the Chamber on this and then Mr Nijboer tells me that he sees ten where it is not in order. And then what? Do I consider it a public task and do I have a basis to instruct the financial institutions to further increase their protection walls? I think it's each one's own responsibility. We have laws and regulations, regulators, capital requirements, you name it. Protection structures are in principle the responsibility of companies. The only company we are responsible for is ABN AMRO, because it is now ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u176	It may not be the minister's job, but I can imagine that the supervisor, DNB, is looking at it again. It seems to me that it is up to the supervisor to take stock of this, given its financial stability and its interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u177	May I make a suggestion? Perhaps Mr Nijboer can continue his motion so that I can see if it will lead to anything if I ask the Dutch Bank if he would like to speak to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and Petitions in a closed discussion. That will really have to be decided, because it is information that I do not think the supervisor will want to discuss with the Chamber in public. DNB may be willing to do this, I'd like to explore that. I'll let the Chamber know if that could be a road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u178	Mr Nijboer, no discussion, I would like to hear if you are prepared to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u179	I am prepared to do so because I would like to hear it from DNB and I cannot address DNB in the debate. So I'd like to hear what's going on through the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u180	At the request of Mr Nijboer, I propose his motion (Doc. 71). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u181	I'll come to the motion in part No. 72 by Mr Ronnes. He's worried about the protection structure. If I understand him correctly, that is the point where the foundation that has to take over the protection can be lifted. A foundation has no shares, so a gold share is not an option, apart from the legal discussion that I have already mentioned, whereby legal gold shares in listed companies have broken down in court. Maybe he's looking for a way to make the STAK, the protection structure, more solid, so that it can't be lifted in the future. That is why we have set it up as well as possible. I have already mentioned how we do this and what consent should be given to it. As long as the State has a third or more, the State is an important guarantee. A golden share in ABN AMRO will not legally succeed. That's what we're getting wet on. A further reinforcement for the eternity of the foundation, the STAK, I don't see either. In the end, this will have to be a completely independent foundation with a clear and unambiguous task. I have no reason to believe that there are many interests to lift them quickly. Shareholders looking for an extra value of their share should then infiltrate the foundation. We have looked at how we can properly set up this foundation. We have also looked at how it has been set up with other companies and have joined in with them. I think we have done what we need to do on this point. Whatever the motion asks, you can't. I'm sorry, but I need the motion in part number. 72 dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-23-tweedekamer-33.u182	We have come to the end of this debate. I thank the Minister for his answers. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
