ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The cheapest and cleanest energy is always the energy you don't use at all. Energy saving is very important to be less dependent on Putin, but also for lower energy costs and a better climate. That's what those smart meters are all about. These smart meters give people more control over their own energy consumption. Then they can check where they can save the most: is it the fridge in the shed or is it the freezer in the attic, or is it the washing machine? Where did that energy bill come from? These are all great advantages of such a smart meter, but privacy must of course be guaranteed. Not the least organisations, namely the industry organisations Netmanagement Netherlands and Energy Management Netherlands, warn that this privacy is not in order. Those smart energy meters seem to be prone to identity fraud. With the apps that people use, the identity of the resident is hardly checked. They can be seen in an instant by other people. Maybe people think: what difference does it make if someone knows how much electricity I use? However, it can be very interesting for burglars to know when all the lights are going out or when energy has not been used for some time because they may not be at home. These are all reasons why it is important that we really ensure that privacy is explicitly guaranteed. That is why I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. We are in favour of the smart meter, but it must really be privacy proof. Does the Secretary of State share the concerns about that privacy issue? Since when is the department aware of this? What actions is she going to take to deal with this? Apart from the point about this leak, very clear agreements have been made with consumers on when these data can be read out. That's something you need to be able to deal with yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have indeed seen that there has been a journalist who has been given access to consumer measurement data. This has been achieved through the use of weaknesses in the systems of a number of energy saving service providers. I wholeheartedly agree with Mrs Van Veldhoven that this smart energy meter is of great value to consumers. I also wholeheartedly agree with her that the privacy of these consumers should be guaranteed. After all, measurement data are personal data. Consumers should be able to trust that their data is handled confidentially so that their privacy is guaranteed. If we don't, we're gonna take that very seriously. All interested parties must ensure that this does not happen again in the future. The ACM immediately sent a letter to the industry organisation Netbeheer Nederland and asked for clarification. A number of actions have already been taken. That concludes my contribution. The network operators manage the smart meter infrastructure. They've also done research. Furthermore, we have legally established that this privacy is guaranteed. However, we have also seen that some providers do not organise obtaining that customer mandate sufficiently robustly. This is evident from the network operator's investigation. So there's been a mistake in the execution. In the meantime, the network operator has checked with all 96 providers whether they comply with all legal obligations. It appears that this is the case in the meantime. There was initially a question mark on seven parties, but in the last few days we have seen that these parties have their affairs in order. That means that, at least as far as we are concerned, the case has now been taken. Eventually the independent supervisors ACM and College protect personal data for us assess whether they will continue to do so well enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u3	This time it was a journalist who came out with it, but of course we don't know who else is trying to get into the systems in this way. After all, these people probably won't report it. I am pleased that the Secretary of State shares the concerns of my group, precisely because of the importance of the smart meter and its further roll-out. At the time of the roll-out, we also said that people should be given the choice to turn it off. Is this choice still guaranteed? It is good that we now comply with all legal requirements, but does it really give consumers the right to make clear agreements on how often the data are read out, for which the data are used and how it is handled to third parties? Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State, along with the independent supervisors, to ensure that we continue to monitor this actively. ICT systems can be cracked, in many places. Then it is also important that you keep actively looking for the leaks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u4	It is clear that the choice for the customer, especially by law in the Upper Chamber, is ultimately guaranteed by law. At first you were supposed to have a smart energy meter anyway, but now there is freedom of choice. This means that the providers have to work with a customer mandate. It also allows a number of such matters to be dealt with by the consumer with the supplier. I think Mrs van Veldhoven's final point is appropriate. It is indeed good to actively monitor how the system works. We have our supervisors for that and I think Netbeheer Nederland and Energie-Nederland will do the same. We simply need to establish that measurement data is personal data. We have promised and also stipulated in the law that privacy must be guaranteed. So that's what we need to keep to everyone who works in this field with that smart energy meter. That is in the interests of the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u5	The consumer does indeed have a choice, but that choice can also be to turn off the smart meter. Otherwise, he also makes the choice for those who live in the same house after him that there is no smart meter in it. That is why we said in the Chamber at the time: you can also guarantee privacy by regulating that the smart meter can be turned off. So I would like to make sure that that is really respected. The Secretary of State is also in favour of active monitoring. Can we ask our independent supervisors whether they would like to repeat in six months' time what is going on with monitoring, whether they have actively sought leaks and whether they have been able to establish, not only in terms of regulation but also in practice, that privacy is really well guaranteed, not only on paper but also in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mrs Van Veldhoven's first question was: is there a choice to turn off the meter actively? Yeah, there's that freedom of choice. Mrs Van Veldhoven's second question was: how are we going to monitor and what can we ask of our supervisors? I think it is right that we should discuss this with the supervisors again. Mrs Van Veldhoven knows that they do play an independent role in this, but I am very willing to put this point on the table through the Minister. Then, I think, the Chamber will be given a written proposal on how or not to take that up. At the moment, I cannot foresee the possible consequences of precise monitoring; it is not my own portfolio either. However, it seems clear to me that we are going to discuss this with the supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u8	With D66 GroenLink's smart grids and smart meters are very important. The Secretary of State said the same thing. I was wondering to what extent the Secretary of State is prepared to ensure that smart meters are created very quickly in all government buildings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u9	Now Mrs. Van Tongeren is asking me. I think it can be very important in itself for all energy users. I can't see what's going on right now. In the letter I promised Mrs Van Veldhoven with a more explicit answer to the question of how we are going to monitor that privacy is guaranteed, we can take this point from Mrs Van Tongeren with one stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-03-tweedekamer-5.u10	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. I hope you will stay for a while before the votes.
