ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber. In particular, I welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a lot of rules, lots of rules. The Legal Loket helps a lot of people who don't know their way around that forest of rules. This is done at the Legal Loket. Because a lot of people are stuck in those rules. The Legal Loket helps these people in a way that is easily accessible. Legal Loket helps efficiently. I saw it with my own eyes, because I went to work there. I've been sitting next to a desk clerk who worked by appointment. This low-threshold aid is also cost-effective, as it prevents further procedures and the use of lawyers, judges and so on. The future plans for the Legal Loket are therefore quite justified. However, we are talking about the situation today. Today, 20 out of 30 Legal Lockets stopped the walk-in. Mid-May, the last ten quits. I think it is right that the Legal Affairs Committee should look at how things can be improved. Such a walk-in time is not as good for everyone. There's gonna be people who forgot their papers. Sometimes they've made a trip for nothing. They have to come back with their papers and can only then be helped. There are people coming to the Legal Loket who wait after an hour, and we all know the lines here in The Hague: you are here now, but you should actually be at another agency. So I understand that the Legal Loket is thinking: let's improve that. They want to make a phone call first. It is said that this way we can immediately tell people when they are expected and what exactly they need to bring with them. One can also say directly if necessary: you should not be with us, but with another institution. So that's good. I also understand that this is being done under pressure from the state-wide efficiency mission of the Balkenende IV cabinet and the Rutte I cabinet. But something's definitely going wrong. By stopping that walk-in, a group of people are literally standing in front of a closed door. It's about a vulnerable group of people. It is a group of people for whom a telephone appointment is too far a bridge. For example, people who do not master the language properly, people who do not have a roof over their heads or people who cannot structure their lives. It's about people who may be a little confused, people who don't have a phone or no money. This very vulnerable group of people is no longer able to reach the point of contact which is intended for them. It can't be. First of all, I call on the Legal Loket to come up with a solution that will also help this group. The door must be kept open for this group. That solution must be found, as far as I am concerned, even if that means that other tasks can be done less well. Of course, it is up to the Legal Loket itself to decide how to do this, but you can imagine that what they wanted to do by telephone is arranged for this group of people at an open door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u3	Mr Recourt assumes that a number of legal persons needing help have inadequate knowledge. Now these people are still reporting to the office. At such a time, these people will find it difficult, for example, to make themselves understood. How, then, does Mr Recourt say that such a problem will be solved during that consultation period?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u4	Often, for example, a nephew is taken away, or someone else who does speak the language. People are inventive in that sense. However, this calls for a physical space, a window of opportunity. On the phone, that's gonna be a lot harder. By only being able to do that by phone, you raise that threshold just for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u5	I can imagine that the call-in consultation can also be conducted with the help of that nephew. Often a phone has a speaker. Then that nephew can help with translating or making the legal aid question understandable, and can then be assessed whether it is necessary to make a follow-up appointment. In other words, can this inventiveness not also be found on the phone and could it not be in the proposal in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u6	A lot can be done on the phone, but my objection is that part of it can't be over the phone. Unfortunately, it is even about a not insignificant part. That phone is a barrier. You can say that you have to arrange it with a nephew at the speaker, but in practice it will mean that people will stay away from the window that is intended for them. That's the kid with the bathwater toss, and we shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u7	I hear Mr Recourt say that he initially calls upon the Legal Loket himself to see how this can be restored or come back. Is Mr Recourt aware that the Legal Loket budget has been cut in recent years, that a great deal has already been done in terms of efficiency and that we are actually on the hard line, including in terms of salaries and so on? It may be good to see if something can be done more efficiently, but does Mr Recourt recognise that at some point there is a limit to what you can reasonably still take efficiency measures? To what extent does he think it is right to place this at the Legal Loket itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u8	I'm sure there's a limit to efficiency. I have been able to see more or less close to the struggle, as well as the way in which all the staff of the Legal Loket have been challenged to improve this. I am not allowed to ask another question from this place, so I note that we in the Chamber are not dealing with business operations. We're just dealing with the outcomes. Who's that Legal Loket for? I can say something about this actively and I will actively address the Secretary of State. So I can't say anything about the way in which the Legal Loket organises its work. Even the funding is indirect, because it runs through the Legal Assistance Council, and then comes the Ministry of Security and Justice. That is why I say to them: at least make sure you serve this very vulnerable target group. As far as I am concerned, this is at the expense of something else, for example, because there are longer waiting times for the telephone hours. That's not good either, because that's losing quality. However, I cannot say that I am giving a few million more. If so, this should be done in the negotiations on the spring note. For the time being, however, I assume that this is not necessary, because, as far as I am concerned, the legal speaking time does not have to remain open in the way it was. My demand is that these people should not only be able to reach the point of contact by telephone, but that they should also be able to enter through a door and tell a desk what their problem is and then be referred to or given an appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u9	I understand, however, that Mr Recourt does not have those millions in his back pocket to spread around; I understand that. But does he recognize that there is a limit somewhere? I've been wondering where it belongs to the Labour Party. Under Balkenende IV, 50 million has been cut by Secretary of State Albayrak. Under this cabinet, Rutte II, 85 million is being cut on subsidised legal aid. That is access to justice for people who really need it. Now it seems as if a border has been reached for the PvdA. I think that is very good, but Mr Recourt cannot deny that there is a responsibility somewhere for those who, even through the Legal Assistance Council, finance the Legal Loket. Can't the Legal Loket be asked to keep that up, can it? Surely there's an important responsibility for whoever's funding this? In this case, that is the government, the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u10	First of all, two things are mixed up. We are not talking about the cuts in legal aid. That is another debate, which we have often had and will continue to have here. Today, however, we are talking about the Legal Loket, which has been kept free from austerity. There's a job there. As part of your mission, all parties have included in their election programme, including the SP and the CDA, as well as the Labour Party. That doesn't mean there's a limit to what you can do with a certain amount of money. I have already said that if that border is crossed, Mr Van Nispen can come back to me, but not at the moment, because that is what we are doing in the negotiations on the money for Security and Justice. But it hasn't come to that yet. It is now about the choice made by the Legal Loket by deleting that walk-in time and keeping two other legs intact. I understand part of that choice, but not the consequence for the most vulnerable group. As far as I am concerned, this consequence must be reversed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u11	It's about money and the end of the elastic rack. It is also about the budget for security and justice. Does Mr Recourt still support the statement, on behalf of his group, I assume that there should be no further cuts in security and justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u12	We are going to have a separate debate on this. My verdict was: no further cuts in the agencies of Security and Justice. If there's a pot of money in there, you can get rid of that money. That's not what I'm talking about. That pot of money isn't there, by the way. But we don't have to cut back on the state's attorney's office or the judge's office and so on, and I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u13	It is good to have that confirmation, because this means that there is a problem with Security and Justice. There are more jars. Now that we are having such an important debate here tonight, would it not be reasonable to say to the Secretary of State that we would like the opening hours to continue where possible? And if that costs a few cents, put it on the list anyway. Isn't that route more sensible and honest than saying: see if it can be budget neutral, press something in business and see if you can find money with cheaper interns? Does Mr Recourt think that there is a real chance that you can find something in the organisation? Isn't it much better to say: let it cost a little and we'll see?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u14	I've taken that responsibility by saying I'll have to deal with it at another time. But I'm not there yet, because I've also made a number of calls. I called the Legal Loket and they told me to get real money. I also called the financier of the Legal Loket and he said: well, that's not true at all; it's not quite in order at the Legal Loket. So I ended up in a penny fight and I'm not a member of parliament for that. In this case, I am in favour of addressing the Secretary of State at the service. What's the Legal Loket for? As far as I am concerned, this is not about keeping all vulnerable groups in order. That's the profession I do. I think this can be done with the money that is now going to the counters, but I end by saying that I am not the manager of the Legal Loket. So I can't turn the buttons myself. I just hope that with the D66 group I can say: keep the door open in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u15	It is good to hear that the PvdA now thinks that the walk-in time should be open. I think this is a bit like putting the horse behind the cart. Mr Van Nispen asked for an urgent debate when the opening hours were not yet closed, but we were already informed. I should like to know from Mr Recourt why the request for that debate was torpedoed by the Labour Party. Now they're closed and we're talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u16	We are now going to repeat the debate that took place at the time during the scheme. When the SP asked for a debate two weeks ago, we first asked for a letter to find out what was going on. That letter wasn't there yet. That's a pretty normal way of doing things. When that letter came and it turned out that the window would indeed close, I took action myself, together with the SP, by the way. The SP and the Labour Party think this should be done. In addition, I have said that in the scheme and I have just repeated that I called first to see whether it could not be solved in any way. No, it turned out to be me. So we had to have a debate then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u17	It's not about redoing the arrangement. The point is that the walk-in hours are now closed. There's a lot of hassle and misery. We must all restore this because Mr Recourt wanted a letter. Then I think: put on the penance rug and say that didn't come in handy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u18	Yeah, but it's about the period of a week now. We would be delayed for about a week. This is a journey that has been in the scaffolding for months and has been prepared. So that week does not make any difference, I can say to Mr Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u19	I'm glad to hear from the PvdA that the help for the most vulnerable groups is getting attention, just like that from GroenLinks. I am also glad that there is a door open to arrange a little more, so that people can join a Legal Loket. We are still hearing exactly how that might take shape, but it is in any case regulated for the most vulnerable. The people who just didn't belong to it have to call. The call costs are €0.25 per minute. From information from the Association Social Lawyer Netherlands I know that waiting from fifteen to twenty minutes is absolutely no exception. This put together, you're pretty quick to get to a high amount. I've been looking at other organizations. Mr Recourt may or may not know it, but in the case of UWV, for example, you have to call it first.It's €0.04 per minute. And with the UWV there are not only the most vulgar groups; there is in general a different target group. Without a separate budgetary arrangement in the Chamber, does Mr Recourt, like GroenLinks, think it would be good if the costs were at the same level as those of the UWV?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u20	I'd love to have it for free, but I get that it has to be off the length or the width. So my solution is not to lower the cost of calling. As far as I'm concerned, when the call costs are a huge threshold, you can go to the open door, which I do ask for. The second point is that travel costs are often much higher than calling costs. That happens often, because not everyone lives in the big city so he can ride his bike to the Legal Loket. First of all, making an appointment by phone is much more advantageous, because it prevents additional travel costs. So it's not always negative. But I admit, making free would be even better. Except I don't have the money for that, so I'm not suggesting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u21	But then you assume that the level of austerity is absolutely inevitable. That's just a choice. So it's the PvdA's choice to say to people: if you can't afford to travel because it's very expensive, you'll just have to see to it that the call costs are combined. Because it's really a real amount for people. They don't have €5 or €6 lying around every time to call and sit on hold for a while. So, again, my question is: shouldn't it be regulated that there should be access to the Constitution at least? The Legal Loket was, of course, a austerity measure of its own, to ensure that access to justice would be preserved and that as much extrajudicial as possible would be removed. That's a success. Now you're actually gonna squeeze that access again by either making it physically impossible or putting heavy costs in between. Doesn't the PvdA think that we should do something about that, for example by looking at how we can reduce the call costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u22	We don't want to squeeze that access. That is the essence of this debate: we want to keep the window open. And of course, politics is about making choices, but those choices don't make the PvdA alone. If I am right, GroenLinks' election programme also includes a generic discount. Indeed, all parties have done so in order to comply with austerity orders. So it is very easy to say: we were for it, but now it is not. For the sake of completeness, I would like to say that there have been no additional cuts in the Legal Loket than the general reduction that all the public authorities of the Justice Department have had. We've all had the intention of doing that. So it's a little easy to say now: we're walking away from that choice again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u23	A well-known creed reads: To rule is to see ahead. Has Mr Recourt not seen this whole fiasco coming because of the mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u24	At least I didn't see that coming in time. I saw it coming at some point, by the way, when I was there at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u25	That's good to see. We now have the situation that the walk-in hours are no longer there and that in May there are no other ten locations. What is the PvdA's proposal in concrete terms when it comes to the targets and if we don't make it? So if within the organisation, within the management of the Legal Loket, the PvdA's assessment of fewer calls and more walk-in hours does not work, when does it intend to get over the bridge and meet the Legal Loket in the financial sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u26	By the spring note. I would like to say that I think it is possible to do so within the financial framework that is now in place. I'm almost done with my speech. I had already called the Legal Loket myself and finally I call on the Secretary of State to settle this. Again, the Chamber is not about the business, nor is the Secretary of State. That's not what I'm asking him to do. I will ask him to do something for that target group, for the most vulnerable people who are now in the cold. We can, through the Secretary of State, make sure that that group can still go to the Legal Loket. The Labour Party believes that the door of the Legal Loket should be open again to that group, to the most vulnerable people. I've mentioned them here many times. Those people need our help. The window is intended for easy access to help and we need to arrange it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u27	Mr. Chairman. Here around the corner is the Legal Loket, just like at 29 more places in the country. In the morning, there's a long line of people waiting on the sidewalk. They're people with a legal problem who aren't so rich that they can afford a lawyer themselves. The Legal Loket goes down a little bit by its own success, it seems. Because there are so many customers, the queues have become longer and longer and therefore the counters are now closed. In twenty places they have been closed since last week and in ten places, including in the big cities, they will close on 11 May, at least if we do not stop doing so tonight. The Legal Loket has had to fire a lot of people in recent years as a result of cuts, and there is really no choice but to take this drastic measure: closing all the desks and opening hours throughout the country. The SP really finds that very undesirable. This is the most accessible form of legal aid that is needed. The number of customers is increasing. Legal problems have not diminished, while there are fewer opportunities to obtain legal aid. Lawyers are expensive and the legal aid financed is being cut back. The closing of the walk-in time is defended by saying that these people will have to call for €0.25 per minute or that they will have to make an appointment online. I hope the Secretary of State will see for himself that this is a threshold. I think we need to be very aware of what target group we are talking about. A lawyer who contacted me wrote: "Well, some of my clients aren't that strong on the phone. They have difficulty speaking Dutch and are not very good at expressing their problem. These people must now tell us by phone what their legal problem is. That's a huge extra threshold." I would point out to the Secretary of State that 1.3 million people are low-lettered. The added value of the walk-in time was that people could walk in to show a lease or a subpoena. You can't do that on the phone, can you? This is also a poor development from a financial point of view. Cheap will be expensive. From the investigation of Significant! Turns out almost a quarter of the people have been helped with the consultation. It gets a 8.4 from the customers as an average report rate and is cheaper. The plan is therefore not well thought out and is not in line with the previous austerity plans of EUR 85 million from the previous Secretary of State. Fortunately, most of these bad plans have now been put on ice in anticipation of the Wolfsen Committee, which is doing research. These plans, however, provided for a strengthening of the first-line legal assistance, i.e. a strengthening of the Legal Loket. If the previous Secretary of State was able to strengthen the Legal Loket, why doesn't this Secretary of State feel it is his responsibility? Why is the Legal Loket now weakened by the abolition of speaking time? How is it that this Secretary of State actually writes in his letter that this is not his responsibility? That's impossible, isn't it? I say to the Secretary of State again: don't do this! Especially now that the Wolfsen Committee is working, we must not allow this to happen. We must, of course, wait for the results of this study, but let us be clear about that, as far as we are concerned, the running-in time is not being abolished at all. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to my question about the Wolfsen Commission, which is now in progress. In any case, I would like the Secretary of State to promise that the ten counters in the major cities, among others, will not close on 11 May. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u28	I'm just trying to figure out which target group Mr Van Nispen is particularly interested in. Does Mr Van Nispen also share the idea that in many cases it may be useful, at least in advance by telephone or via the Internet, to remind the upcoming customer that he should, for example, bring his file or a copy of his passport?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u29	Of course, it is right for people to be encouraged through the website or other forms of communication to call first so that they can be told exactly what they need to take with them or if they are reminded that there is a lot of legal information on the website of the Legal Loket, which is also used by a lot of people. Of course, that is already happening, but there is still a group of people who simply take their file with them, which are really not big packs of paper, but that is, for example, the subpoena received, the lease or the contract of employment. There's a need for that. I do not know whether Mr Van Oosten has ever seen the queues. Those aren't all people out there waiting for fun. If they had understood that you could call, and if it hadn't been as expensive as it is now, they might have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u30	But I'd still like to come back to the queues. We can hardly ask all these people individually, but could you imagine that some of them would have benefited if they had called first? They would have been told: if you come now, you will be sent back because you have to take your pieces with you. In this way, it will be so efficient for an even smaller group than you are now indicating to be able to call first to put the problem down, and they will also be told to take their pieces with them, so that an additional conversation can take place outside the Legal Loket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u31	Of course, a group of people will benefit from that. I also acknowledge that a group of people should have called first. However, the question is how to reach all these people, in such a way that they realize that. This aside from the fact that it costs money to call. Of course that is interesting and we can also ask the Secretary of State, but the SP does think that the solution to this problem that Mr van Oosten is now raising is not to abolish the running-in time and to have people call with a paid number or have them look on the website. Of course, that doesn't solve that problem. Then those people who don't know this or who don't have the ability to express themselves over the phone stay in the cold. It must therefore remain possible for that target group. I already asked the Secretary of State for a commitment that at least the counters in the major cities will not close on 11 May. I would also ask him to ensure that the twenty desks which are now closed for a week are reopened as soon as possible, for at least two mornings a week, after the need has been measured, in order to restore the provision that was there. I have been told that about EUR 1 million is needed in order not to abolish running-in hours. May I have the Secretary of State's reaction to that? I would also ask him to do something about the referral circus that we now know and which is also called diagnosis and triage. Customers who are already with a lawyer must now make the pointless way to the Legal Loket to get a €53 discount on their own contribution. Couldn't we do something about that? Finally, this Secretary of State must prevent the abolition of an easily accessible provision that is needed in practice. The SP really believes that we should prevent further dismantling of access to justice. Law is not a luxury product; justice must be guaranteed under the rule of law. Of course, I would like a comprehensive response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u32	Mr. Chairman. Last year the Legal Loket celebrated its second lustrum: it existed for ten years. Unfortunately, there was and is little reason for a party. There are mainly concerns about the Legal Loket, both with the employees and with the people who use it. In his letter of 2 April, the Secretary of State states that the Legal Loket seeks more customization by answering legal questions by appointment and no longer to the desk. How exactly does the Secretary of State see this? The CDA Group asks the State Secretary to respond in this context to the percentages of the Monitor subsidised legal aid for the year 2013. 45% of the number of customer contacts is over the telephone and 30% via the desk. Thus, a third of the communication between the court-seekers and the Legal Loket takes place physically, through the counter, at the walk-in, as we call it. What effect does the abolition of these possibilities have on the overload of other customer activities? What does the abolition of entry time mean for those seeking justice, not only those with low incomes, but also those with middle incomes today? What are the consequences for referrals to law and mediation? In what way are the securities monitored by the Foundation the Legal Loan and the Legal Assistance Board? What are the criteria for these authorities to say to the Secretary of State if things go badly wrong in the next few weeks? The CDA Group also wants to know if there are further measures in the pipeline at the Legal Loketten to further limit customer contacts. The CDA Group wants to hear from the Secretary of State how to ensure that access to the Legal Loket remains guaranteed. The SP said it very loudly: it just needs to open again. This applies not only to the cities, but also to the provinces. Take, for example, the counters in Lochem and Heerlen. It is important that people can go there physically and that the window is within a reasonable distance. What is the maximum distance in kilometres that the Secretary of State considers reasonable for those seeking justice to go to the Legal Loket? I see the Secretary of State laughing, but sometimes people have to drive 100 kilometers to get there. How does the closing of the counters and walk-in doors relate to that maximum distance? Does closing the counters not make access any more difficult? The CDA Group asks the Secretary of State to include the reaction of the previous Secretary of State on 4 November last to the report describing the pilots carried out on first-line legal assistance. In this, the Secretary of State adds a great value to the office. He says: from the evaluation of the pilots, which has been tested on the assumption that matters that can be resolved in the first line belong there and do not have to flow to the second line, it appears that the speaking time is a good provision. How does this view of the Secretary of State relate to the closing of the counters or the opening meeting? In the brief letter of 2 April, the Secretary of State states that the Legal Loket must take these measures through the austerity of the cabinet-Balkenende IV and the Rutte I cabinet. However, within the budget of this cabinet there is also an overall task for all parts. So this is a very cheap way for the Secretary of State to put off the problems of Legal Loket. Hopefully that will not be his course of action in the near future. In substance, this remark is not appropriate either. It is true that the previous Cabinets have also focused on reducing the costs of subsidised legal aid and have also made austerity proposals. Our party has also participated in this. However, the CDA Group does not agree with the way in which the current cabinet is looking for financial solutions. This has already been discussed in various debates over the last two years. There is a cut where it is not necessary and where it can even be harmful. The most striking example is the first-line provision at the Legal Loket. How can the Secretary of State say, on the one hand, that the Legal Loket must be strengthened and, on the other hand, cut the Loket budget by as much as 9.6 million? This strengthening of the first line is very important. This will allow many disputes to be resolved without the need for a lawyer to be added through subsidised legal aid. Can the Secretary of State indicate what reduction this will lead to in the Legal Loket budget made available by the Legal Assistance Council and the Ministry? Can the Secretary of State indicate if this plan is still on the table seriously? What do such cuts mean in concrete terms for the workforce, in relation to the increased demand at the Legal Loket last year? Does the Commission also examine the cost increase in legal aid savings on the Legal Loket or does these savings no longer appear in the State Secretary's plans? And I see Mr Van Oosten is going to save me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u33	Yes, because you saw your time was up. We're gonna ask one more question, and I think it's over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u34	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u35	Perhaps in my question Mr Oskam sees reason to stick a piece of his additional contribution to it. It is also up to you, Chairman, to judge whether you allow it. Let's start with the nuance. I hear Mr Oskam say some pretty firm words in the direction of this Secretary of State on his policy with regard to the Legal Loket. That's how I translate it. I shall now come to my question, regardless of whether this Secretary of State is actually involved in the management of the company. Does Mr Oskam share the view that the cuts we are actually talking about are the result of measures taken by the Balkenende IV cabinet and the Rutte I cabinet? In other words, participation of his own party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u36	That's what I just said. It is, of course, a accumulation of austerity. In Balkenende IV and Rutte I the CDA also played a role. But it was also Rutte II. The problem, which we have often discussed during the budgetary procedure and which we will be discussing more often in the near future, is, of course, the cuts in subsidised legal aid. Then it makes sense that you leave the Legal Lockets untouched. I should like to respond immediately to Mr Recourt's proposal that the Legal Groups should do it themselves. It's mostly that total. Not only the walk-in time, but also the call to the Legal Loket and the further reference are a primary need. As Mr Van Nispen said, you almost stumbled on the Herengracht. I see MPs walking down the road to the Lower House because there's such a line at the Legal Loket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u37	Perhaps Mr Oskam, with many of his colleagues, probably present here, shares the view that if he had dealt with the operation of the Legal Loket, he might have gone for other choices. I'd like to take that assumption. At the same time, however, I would like to confirm once again that the tasks under which all this takes place do come from the responsibility of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u38	I'm not running away from that; I am. Other parties are also responsible for this. The point is that this is an illogical choice. If you are going to cut back on the whole circus and also on the subsidised legal aid, it is precisely the Legal Lockets of eminent importance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u39	I would like to congratulate Mr Oskam for jumping over his own shadow. Of course, that's very good. If in the past you may have been involved in a decision, but later you see the consequences of it, I don't think you should be ashamed of the fact that you've come to another understanding. The same applies to Mr Oskam, so I would like to congratulate him on that. My question concerns the following point. This is going to cost money, we all know that. The amount is in the order of 1 million or 2 million. That is not much, Mr President-in-Office. You know that better than anyone else in the state budget. Is Mr Oskam, however, also prepared to join a number of political groups in looking for a few million in the budget debate? Isn't his group so lame to vote against the V and J budget, because then that search makes no sense at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u40	There's a lot in this question. I have the feeling that the colleague is making a bit of a mockery of the position of the CDA. The point is that we chose the cuts at the time. We still believe that these cuts are good. However, it is austerity, austerity, austerity. We are on the verge of under pressure of legal aid. Then there is Legal Loket and that can save costs, even if it costs money. Then you have to choose. It's 2015. It's a different time. Of course you have to see what's needed, but we're going to cause more and more accidents. That's the problem I like to expose here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u41	I have not just praised Mr Oskam for that, but I put him on a pedestal because he has come to a turning point. The point is whether we deliver butter to the fish. My group is prepared to see if we can find cover for this by means of an amendment. Is the CDA's group prepared to do so? Otherwise, this place is a bit of a freefight tonight. That's nice, too, but that doesn't help the counters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u42	It is not a freefight, because this is of course on the agenda tonight. I'm not willing to just go along with that. As I said during the budget debate, the CDA has a counter-budget. It has been said that we do not use it. So, as far as I am concerned, it is now up to the Secretary of State to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u43	Mr. Chairman. This is GroenLinks' first debate with this new Secretary of State, so I congratulate him on his appointment and look forward to successful cooperation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I thought, "Did I have debates in my sleep?" Sometimes you do. From May 11th, all the desks of the Legal Loket will be closed. In future, anyone who needs low-threshold and affordable legal assistance should call an information number. The door of the Legal Loket is only open to complex cases. GroenLinks was overwhelmed by the fact that access was closed on 11 May. We didn't see that coming. With a single area of pens, access to legal expertise will be removed, which we expect to be presented later, as GroenLinks expects, in the form of increasing proceedings before the courts. Anyone who does not know how to resolve his or her dispute out of law, to whom the window provided a substantial contribution, is likely to seek his or her salvation directly from the court. This government felt that a significant cut in the budget was inevitable. In 2013, the number of customer contacts had increased to nearly 1 million. That could actually be called a great success, because what good is a rule of law if there is no access for the citizen to the law? Due to the success of the Legal Loket, the number of lawsuits decreased. All the more reason for the Loket to keep its grant, GroenLinks says. I just asked a few questions about the telephone tariff in an interrupting debate. It's one of the things that really stings us in the throat that people can't go there anymore. It says you have to call and it's more convenient, because then you know you have to take your file, but it really costs people with a very low income a lot of money. The maximum for one phone call is €12,50. Hence my question to the Secretary of State: is it really not possible to deal with this differently? That's not a few million dollars, it's a few tons at the most. For example, you could straighten that out with what is paid at the UWV. I'd rather have it for free, too, but that would still be a reasonable level. Temporary contracts shall not be renewed. Last year, the Managing Director of the Legal Loket wondered whether he could still offer legal assistance to those seeking low income. The rack is really out as far as we're concerned. Now let the Legal Loket be introduced in 2003 as a austerity measure to reduce costs. What are we gonna do now? On something successful, we're going to make further cuts, to get the costs down. I would like the Secretary of State to explain why this is being chosen in this way. Last week, the Chamber received a note from the Secretary of State. In his own words, he only goes about the lump sum for the Legal Assistance Council. Furthermore, as a system responsible, he has only the task of ensuring adequate access to justice. I see this as hiding behind the reasoning: "I myself have established a complicated funding system, that is what others are about, and they have to decide where to cut back. I might have done it differently, but yes, they go about it." That's what the Secretary of State actually says. Of course it's not like that. It is an interesting point of view, but it is completely incorrect. Access to justice is a fundamental right and a human right. See Article 18 (1) of the Constitution. That gives everyone the right to have legal assistance. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there is little left of the flag. I would also like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. You will only have a conflict with the government as an unsuspecting low-educated citizen about your benefit, your personal budget or your right to care. Then you have to figure out who to call at all. Then you have to get through the waiting times. Then you should see if you can get the money out of your limited budget before calling. After that, you have to expose your legal problems, which you hardly understand yourself. For many, walking in was an outcome. If it is to be limited by this Secretary of State, GroenLinks believes that this Secretary of State should at least arrange for people to be able to do it by telephone, if it has to be by telephone. We want it to be free, but otherwise it can be at the level of the UWV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u44	Mr. Chairman. Legal Loket is doing a good job. So far, I have not heard any group say the opposite. But why are we cutting back on it every year? The Legal Loket helps over 500,000 people every year. Demand increases every year. But instead of getting more money, it gets less money. That's what we call "squeezing policy." The government is starting to look more and more like an old-fashioned exploiter. Less money is being made available and more is expected in return. These cuts may work on paper, but in practice they are often a tragedy. That's what we're seeing by stopping the walk-in. The Legal Loket just doesn't have any money for that anymore. We are talking here about the core provision in our society. Everyone deserves good legal aid, including people who can't afford an expensive lawyer. If there is more demand for the services of the Legal Loket, the Legal Loket should also receive more money to attract, for example, new employees. That makes sense, doesn't it? In his letter of November last year, the Secretary of State himself called for the strengthening of first-line legal aid. However, that letter was not written by this Secretary of State, but by his predecessor. It says literally that the consultation period is a good provision. So what the Secretary of State wants in theory is broken down in practice. Thus, the Secretary of State and current government policy resembles a modern version of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. During the day he's a respectable citizen and at night he's a ruthless cost-cutting man. Eventually, a story like this never ends well. I'm rounding up. In essence, it is about honesty and justice. The Legal Loket is doing a great job. We should not cut back on this, but we should invest in it. We should appreciate it, too. Dare to think logically. Dare to be righteous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u45	Madam President. Criminals who aren't so strong verbally, who don't easily pick up the phone or who have intellectual disabilities, don't e-mail or call so quickly. It's more like an obstacle to getting help. For that target group, the start-up time provides a simple and direct need for advice, for example on dismissal or debt. The legal problems of this target group have not been reduced, but rather increased. The Legal Loket has over 850,000 customer contacts every year. A number of members have already said so. A third of those contacts run through the walk-in desk. But how is the Legal Loket going to do that all over the telephone? This and many other concerns have been expressed recently by the Chamber. She has asked the Secretary of State for a letter. This is now the third time I have been allowed to debate with this Secretary of State, so as far as I am concerned, the honeymoon is over. I'd like to criticize his letter. I hope he will learn something from that, in the sense that there will be some better letters next time. This letter contains four remarkable things, which I find really strange in view of the problems raised by the Chamber. The first is: I'm not going over it, it's not my responsibility, so it's another his problem. A further paragraph is a long intriguing sentence, which they can only think of in ministries. It states that the Secretary of State considers that access to justice remains adequately guaranteed. No evidence whatsoever, nothing, some kind of incantation formula. The Chamber is not completely crazy, I tell the Secretary of State. This kind of spell formula doesn't all help in a letter like that. A third advantage, meant as a boost, is said: "A not insignificant additional advantage is that the seeker does not need to look for an establishment unnecessarily." That's nice. That's an advantage of the closure. That's also mentioned for a while, but I think it's a weird advantage. Fourthly, in this letter 'the budget is still a very small sentence, also a typical ministerial sentence: 'This budget has fallen slightly in recent years'. All in all, I think it is a strange letter, given that a lot of political parties got involved in the Arrangement when it came to this important problem. I would ask the Secretary of State to have a little more sense of the urgency of the Chamber at those moments and to take the Chamber seriously when it comes to letters of this kind. The issue did not arise only today with my group, because as early as 2 April 2014, the CDA and D66 groups tabled a motion on the issue of points of contact. It is a pity that Mr Recourt, when the PvdA voted against the motion, I cannot help it. Fortunately, the PvdA has now come to the understanding that things have to be different. This problem was raised a year ago. D66, the CDA, and undoubtedly the SP were leading in this respect, but no one wanted to see it. Eventually, we'll see it together. I ask the Secretary of State to stop sending these strange letters to the Chamber and to take this Chamber and the problem seriously. I would also ask him to consider how we can resolve this. If there's room in the organization I don't know about that but I don't want to know about it then maybe it should be on that side. Otherwise, my group will gladly be willing, if that is necessary to keep the points of contact open, to look for that million. I await the Secretary of State's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u46	The latter intrigues me. Mr Schouw may want to look for that million, but where does he get that from? Can he give us a hint of the veil in that regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u47	Mr Van Oosten knows as well as I do that the budget of the V and J Ministry is quite extensive. We have often talked about the folds of the budget. Mr Van Oosten knows my group well enough to know that if we say that there is a priority, we are looking for money if we need it. That is what we do in the budgetary procedure, but I do have an intention here. If the VVD also expresses that intention, we have a good evening together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u48	If, in every debate we have here, we express the intention of resolving a matter financially, we will ultimately have a financial problem. Does Mr Schouw share that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u49	It's not that complicated, because the Department of V and J has a financial problem. We all know that. There have been all kinds of plans that cannot be implemented, or because the laws and regulations do not come through the parliament or because there has been planning and financing optimism over the last two years. But I'm not responsible for that. Those are the rulers of V and J. They have a big problem, but they have to solve it in the first instance. On this issue, when my group says that money should be added, Mr Van Oosten knows my group well enough to know that we will then be looking for that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u50	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna drop in with the door. To tell you the truth: for the VVD this debate would not have been necessary tonight, but I would like to explain to you why. The reason is first of all, and the Secretary of State communicated this quite clearly in the letter he sent to the Chamber: we are not discussing it. This is about the operation of the Legal Loket, and I do not think it is wise for the Chamber to allow itself to sit on the Executive Board of the Legal Loket unless, and that is also clear from the letter of the Secretary of State, access to the law would be at stake. That is, of course, the so-called system responsibility, and that is also what we have to watch over as parliamentarians in this Chamber. But is access to justice at stake? No, I'd like to say. In fact, I'd actually like to turn it around. It may sound a bit crazy after the contributions of the previous speakers, but I dare say that the window is only getting better. This applies to telephone access, but I also read in the letter on online services. I would like to challenge the Secretary of State on that point. Let's see how we can really make an entrance into the 21st century and how all modern channels, social media and so on, can contribute to improving access to and access to justice. I have just noted in a brief interruptive debate with Mr Recourt that one reason might perhaps lie in a lack of knowledge of the Dutch language. Then I think that this lack of knowledge also occurs at the walk-in time itself. I do not deny that, but I think there are plenty of possibilities and there is plenty of inventiveness and the legal helper to persuade themselves to make contact by telephone in one way or another. Otherwise, you can do it online. After that, and that is also something the VVD is watching out for, there can of course always be an appointment made at the Legal Loket, especially for legal advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u51	I am a little surprised by this speech by Mr Van Oosten. I really would advise him to take a look, to join us at the Legal Loket, to sit there at the front desk or to talk to the people waiting there on the sidewalk in line. They really aren't there for fun or because they could have just as easily been informed through social media that they should have taken their subpoena with them. That's not how it works. I am very sorry to have to say this here, but I would like to ask Mr Van Oosten: please take a look at that. Can you promise me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u52	I promise you the last of it. Perhaps we can go together, but you know, I am also concerned about the fate of many and I am also concerned about the fate of the legal needy, especially those who have no money. Really! Only then do I think: let us solve it in the most efficient and practical way. I understand that it often happens that people don't carry the pieces. I hear those examples too, you gave them yourself. Let's see how we can prevent that! You do that in such a phone call and if such a telephone consultation shows that it is necessary, then you have a fish-a-vis additional call. I find nothing wrong with that, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u53	We're not gonna get out of this. Then let me ask another question. How can Mr van Oosten say that it is not the responsibility of the Chamber and that we would sit in the driver's seat if we were concerned about the fact that there are people who need to walk in there? People who often carry their pieces. Then someone can look at that and problems can be solved directly in a cheap way, with great customer satisfaction they get there at the Legal Loket on average an 8.4 for. This will prevent the case from entering the more expensive route. That should be very appealing to Mr Van Oosten. How can he say that this is not the responsibility of the Secretary of State? If the Secretary of State says that access to justice is guaranteed, does Mr Van Oosten ask why we are debating this, because the Secretary of State has written that access to justice is guaranteed? Then whose responsibility is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u54	I'm gonna go check on the letter anyway. I brought him in just in case, 'cause I was expecting questions like this. Customized service. That's what the Secretary of State writes. That is also what I hold the Secretary of State myself to. I note that in this letter, and I think that a very correct development is considered first of all the possibility of looking at what is useful in a specific case through a telephone consultation. There is also an online service that allows customers of the Legal Loket to present the question first. Sometimes it may not be necessary to go to the office. Sometimes it's not necessary to schedule a follow-up appointment and sometimes it is. I don't read anywhere in this letter that the latter is not the issue. If you want to be sure, I'd like to ask that question to the Secretary of State along this road. In other words, it is about access to the law for the poor. That is what we really have to guard and I think we share it. It is also true that people who are not at all entitled to all such systems, but who belong to middle incomes or higher and who have to finance the high hourly rates of lawyers at one time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u55	That perhaps something should also be done about this, is without prejudice to the fact that we are now talking about the legal points of contact. I too am rather bewildered by the approach that this austerity should again be seen as an improvement in the provision of services. Before the legal booths were closed, people who were able to do so could already call and people who had a computer could have computer skills and read enough, for a long time. The people who could and understood did it a long time ago. I would like to know from Mr Van Oosten: how many people in the Netherlands do not have access to a computer? How many people control Dutch at a level at which they certainly cannot follow a legal document? How many people do not have access to a telephone with a €5 credit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u56	I believe in a world in which people are allowed to show some degree of self-reliance. I know it's very difficult for a lot of people. I shall go back to the interrupting debate I just had with Mr Recourt. Mr Recourt has legitimate concerns, and I understand that. Someone who does not know the Dutch language properly may not be able to put his problem into words over the phone. However, he also has this problem at the consultation time. In the example of Mr Recourt and myself, he takes his nephew. Then I think, "What's wrong with you calling?" After that you may still have that conversation, but with the pieces and so on at hand. You put it on the speaker and the nephew translates, when it comes to that particular issue. In other words, there is a great deal that is possible where people can put down that question along that road and then be helped very neatly and very chicly by the Legal Loket? I am not against the Legal Loket and not against legal aid for the inability or the underprivileged. Don't let that thought arise. I just think that we should work together to implement the most efficient solution. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u57	Mrs Van Tongeren (GroenLinks): Apparently the idea is that people in the Netherlands who are able to do so would not have thought up to now to put their nephew on the phone. That people who are able to do so do not yet look on the computer and that people who are able to do so do not solve these problems with the help of their own circle of acquaintances. But these people are already doing all that. It is a group that is unable to do so. I've been director of social services for years. I can tell my colleague from the VVD that there are a lot of people who can hardly put their question into words. I agree with the call for a number of Fridays. We have quite a number of low-literate people in the Netherlands. We have quite a few people who have no credit and no access to a phone. We really do. It may be difficult to imagine in our circles, but those people are there. These are the people who line up for the Legal Loket at 6:00 in the morning. My question is: is it really not possible to find those two tonnes to at least remove the calling costs? Then the solution advocated by the VVD, "let the people call," would just become a little more accessible. I would also like to know about the VVD: is it really not possible to extend access to the Legal Loket?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u58	I stand for access to justice. That was actually at the heart of my entire contribution. However, I have also indicated in my contribution that I am not dealing with business management and the exact way in which this needs to be regulated. This is a very serious point for me, because that is why we have this Legal Loket. When I read in the Secretary of State's letter the comments on telephony and on online services and when I read that there is the possibility to have one-on-one conversation with each other afterwards, I think: gosh, I don't think it all sounds so crazy yet. Anyway, maybe we just disagree on that. Well, that's an observation, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u59	There's a lot of canceling around here, but it's really about that physical contact. The pilot shows that 59% of those looking for justice are physically going to that window. Mr Van Nispen has been there, Mr Recourt has been there, I have been there and perhaps other colleagues have been there. Those people often can't even speak Dutch normally. They can't call, not even with a nephew or the interpreter phone. They're just handing over their files. There's either a letter of resignation or an attachment from the bailiff. They say: here, I don't know! Take a look there, as Mr Van Nispen suggested. It's really not just the calling. Especially that physical contact is so important. Why do you keep trying to take that away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u60	I object to the latter. I really appreciate what this letter says. The content of this letter means that I am much less concerned about access to justice than you seem to be. This letter states: "(...) for others an appointment will be made at one of the establishments." That is about those for whom the telephone consultation et cetera is insufficient, the people you have just spoken about. In other words, those people still get there. The Legal Loket also provides this service, but does provide customization. I have heard a number of speakers say that it may not always be necessary for some people to sit together. I am concerned that we should be a little careful with the money; I cannot make it better either. At the same time, we have a duty to ensure that access to justice is monitored, including for this target group. I am deeply concerned about this, but it is good to shape it in such a way that you offer more tailor-made services than at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u61	Mr. Chairman. We are talking tonight about the way in which services are provided, which has been adapted by the Legal Loket itself. The emphasis will be on telephone advice. If, after the telephone consultation or e-mail traffic, it is found that more extensive advice is needed, an appointment will be made at an establishment of the Legal Loket. I informed the Chamber by letter. I understand there are a lot of questions left. It's a little balancing tonight, because I'm responsible for the system, but I'm not the director of the Legal Loket. There are two reasons why modesty fits me tonight. There may be more reasons, but there are at least two of them. Firstly, it is about the functioning of our system. We have made the choice that the Ministry finances an amount of legal aid that goes to the Legal Assistance Board, which distributes this contribution to, among other things, the Legal Loket, which is an independent foundation. Let me turn it around. If I had thought on a bad day "I want to change the whole Legal Loket" and I had written "they're gonna stop with that phone from now on and finish everything at the counter" the Chamber would have rightly requested a massive debate here: how does the Secretary of State get out of his mind to intervene in the operation of the Legal Loket. That is why some modesty now fits me on the other side. Secondly, the Legal Loket itself is responsible for the way in which it comes up with the available resources, in its view, to optimum possibilities for legal services and access to the legal aid service it provides. The Legal Loket is now presenting this proposal, with its expertise and its commitment to providing legal aid to people who need it. That is a second reason why I take the idea as my starting point: if they believe it to be good, it is in principle up to me to trust it and to check that it does not endanger the system as a whole. In doing so, the Legal Loket helps us all by looking ahead and monitoring ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u62	It is all true what the Secretary of State says, but it is also true that he is ultimately responsible for access to justice. I believe that tonight will also prove to be the case that a majority of the Chamber wants these points to be kept open where possible. Does the Secretary of State see a role for himself to take up with the Director and say: I have a wish from the Chamber; let us see how we can achieve it with each other? That is the subject of today's debate. Is the Secretary of State prepared to accept that wish in consultation with that director?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u63	It is my role to monitor access to justice and ensure that it is not compromised. As far as I am concerned, this debate is about: is access to justice at risk? Looking at the adjustments proposed by the Legal Loket, I cannot say in advance that this is the case. Insufficient and incompetent people also continue to have adequate access to legal aid. There will be a change in the service. I wanted to say that the attitude of the Legal Loket is not: we are going to do this, this has no influence and so we are not looking back at it anymore. The Legal Loket itself has already said to monitor this. I'll keep an eye on that with the Legal Loket. If that monitoring shows that there are frictions, I will, of course, take into account that part of the Chamber has the idea that closing the walk-in counters is a compelling point. I cannot say in advance that, in practice, it poses problems in such a way that the Legal Loket is not allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u64	The government has an independent responsibility, but the Lower House is of course the highest body. The Secretary of State knows that, too. If the highest body says 'we do not like the closure of these counters; government, do something about it', it is common practice in this country that the government takes action and does not hide behind monitoring, systems, indicators and I know what it is all about. I just want to know if the Secretary of State is prepared to talk to the organization in the short term to see which variants are conceivable to keep those counters open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u65	I'm not hiding behind anything, but I'm also trying not to go beyond my bounds, even if the Chamber would tempt me to do so. I do not want to go beyond the existing systems and intervene in a certain way. Of course, I'm always willing to have a conversation. I told Mr Schouw that we are going to do the same, because we are going to look closely at the consequences. The Legal Loket itself is not blind to those possible consequences either. This is why we are already coming up with extensive monitoring. They therefore started in 20 places before they wanted the 10 big cities to come. They wanted to gain experience in those 20 places first. So I have every confidence in the care of the Legal Loket, in the monitoring that is being organised there and in the conversations that we will have when we see the effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u66	I am going to take over Mr Schouw's baton, Mr President. I understand the position the Secretary of State sketches for himself. He says: I am responsible for the system and I can only do something when access to justice is at stake. It seems that a majority of the Chamber says: yes, access to justice is a matter for the group of people for whom a telephone appointment is a step too far and for whom such a telephone appointment is too high a threshold. Would it not therefore be wise for the Secretary of State to say: I hear that perhaps a majority of the Chamber thinks that access to justice is at issue, so I am going to carry out what the Chamber wants? That would be within his competence, because it is precisely this access to justice that is at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u67	I can have conversations as much as we want here. However, I am not going to give the impression that I will be able to change the business operation with one phone call there tomorrow. I don't think it's healthy for me to do that either. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this is not a rash work of the Legal Loket. The telephone waiting period is intended to be reduced. If it's okay, that waiting time goes from eight minutes to four minutes. People also want to avoid travel movements. Those travel movements aren't free either. It is believed that the Legal Loket will allow fewer people to walk in unprepared, and after a long wait they must be told that they will soon have to come back to show certain things or papers. So this is not a rash work and I do not directly believe that this is making the situation worse. And I certainly cannot conclude in advance that access to justice and legal aid, which falls under my responsibility, is at stake. I cannot say that in advance, so I cannot say in advance to this organisation: you cannot do this, because the system is in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u68	I'll make one last attempt. It's not about business, it's about access to justice. The Secretary of State now hears the Chamber say: this is about access to justice for a certain group. Then the Secretary of State can go to the Legal Loket and say: this is my responsibility, the Chamber has made this statement, it is up to you how you solve it, but are you going to resolve it in such a way that this vulnerable group does not stand at a closed door? That way, everyone stays within their own jurisdiction, but we'll take care of it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u69	It's not like I wouldn't want to talk about this. However, I would find it too easy for me to say exactly what Mr Recourt is asking. I'll say, "People of Legal Loket, I don't mess with you guys, but I do, because I want you to do it differently." So I'd be involved in business management in that way. What I can demand is that access to legal aid should not be compromised. That's a demand. However, the Legal Loket does not want to cause such access to be compromised at all. That is my firm impression. That is why this is done so carefully. They're looking at the effects. If the effects turn out to be in the wrong direction, we will discuss how this can be prevented and improved. However, I do not wish to conclude in advance that it is impossible, on the basis of the proposals of the Legal Loket, to have an adequate system guaranteeing the right to legal assistance. To conclude that in advance, I go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u70	In an explanatory statement to the press release on closing the counters, the following statement of reasons is given. "The queues ran up while the Legal Loket with fewer staff had to do the job. We need to use our resources smartly to help as many people as possible." For that reason, too, it is a little too easy for the Secretary of State to say: it is not really my responsibility or my competence. Of course, he has that responsibility and competence, because of the financing relationship. Furthermore, it is precisely the Secretary of State, the system responsible for access to justice, who has to look at reality. What happens in reality? These people don't stand in line for fun. It is not so easy to solve this in another way, for example via the phone or via the Internet. I have already heard talk about social media in this context this evening. The Minister is a system operator. It is also good to look at exactly what is happening from this role, isn't it? Do these people have access to justice in a sufficiently accessible way? Can they get legal aid in the right way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u71	I fully agree with the last thing Mr Van Nispen says. That's why we're gonna take a very good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u72	The monitor, indeed. Since last week, 20 sites have been closed. We are now going to look at what can seem to be the damage of what is being done; those are just my words. We're gonna monitor that. I wonder how we're gonna do that at all. How are you gonna find out where the people who stand in front of that locked door in the morning and go back home? How the hell is that gonna be investigated? I really can't see that. It is also very strange for the system responsible for access to justice to say that he does not see it as his responsibility or competence. Although he is responsible for access to justice, he allows all those doors to be closed and those looking for justice to stand in front of a closed door, and afterwards he will somehow monitor what is being done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u73	This is quite a coloring of the situation. We're not gonna look at it afterwards. We'll check it out right away. Legal Loket does that himself. The Legal Loket does not come up with these plans to block legal aid access. It's not so one-dimensional that without a walk-in, there would be closed doors. Those establishments aren't leaving. Access remains, only there is no longer a running-in time, which in practice proved not to be the most effective way to provide legal aid. In this way, they themselves, via contact by e-mail or by telephone in advance, intend to achieve a more effective and efficient handling, and to provide assistance to those who need it. I understand that Mr Van Nispen sees risks, but the fact that there are risks does not mean that you have to eliminate the opportunities that the Legal Loket sees in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u74	The Secretary of State actually has two lines of defense. The first is, I'm not going over it. I think it has already been sufficiently discussed. This Secretary of State is about it. The second is: the Legal Loket itself chooses this and this is what it wants. If the Legal Loket was really allowed to choose how it would like to organise the services in the Netherlands, then the Secretary of State and I agree that this would look different from the proposal now before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u75	I can lively imagine an independent foundation wouldn't say no to higher budgets. However, that is quite a theoretical exercise. We have a certain budget and it is doubtful whether it can be within that budget. The answer to that is yes. Then the question to the foundation itself is how it will shape that budget. Just so we're clear, it's not like I called to tell them to close those counters. That would be outrageous. So it is not a choice as an end in itself. It's a cure. It is a choice made within the system of the various modalities and forms in which legal aid is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u76	It's much worse. There's a dedicated group of people out there who know how the shit is at the bottom. They are faced with financial pressure from the Secretary of State who says: think for yourself whether you cut off your arm or your leg. These people are gonna be pluses and minuses with what they have and they're gonna be like, "Oh, for God's sakes, just like that." And then the Secretary of State says they chose it. Then he comes up with the solution that he's going to monitor if people fall between shore and ship. How does the Secretary of State feel that the already overloaded Legal Loket should go on the streets with the question of whether people happen to have a legal question that they can't find anywhere? There are 1.3 million low-lettered people in the Netherlands who cannot read a slightly more complicated computer screen. They can't scan a form at all. They can't read a lot. Where are these people going? How do you monitor it? You're sending in a written survey on that? Did you have a dispute? Hasn't it been resolved satisfactorily? Didn't you end up in the Legal Loket? Isn't this just an invaluable cut for which the Secretary of State is trying to dive a little bit by saying that he isn't about it and the Legal Loket himself has chosen it? Is the fact that access to justice is being hindered and the Secretary of State says he has a cut to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u77	No, that's not the point. Monitoring will be carried out in a different way than Mrs Van Tongeren says. That would indeed be a very cumbersome way. She also refers to people who can't do it all easily themselves. That's right. I can also imagine that you do not immediately know where the establishment is and how to get there and that you also need help from your surroundings. I imagine there'll be someone around you who'll point that out or maybe even take you there, in this case, because you can't afford the costs. I can also imagine you borrowing someone's phone, doing that at an agency or someone saying, "I'll type an e-mail for you." It's not surprising that all these things happen, because they're already needed. Even if you physically go to the office, even if it is a walk-in, you often need some help. That doesn't change. That's gonna stay. That is why I do not think it is necessarily the case that the system collapses when the opening-up period expires. The aid that is needed in terms of modalities that are given a prominent role is the type of aid that is needed to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u78	I hear Mrs Van Tongeren saying that the Secretary of State is diving, but I think he's playing too. 'Cause he's turning it all in the right direction. Let me give you two examples. The Secretary of State says you can't necessarily say that closing those counters will make things worse for those looking for justice. However, I do not think the Secretary of State can say that it is getting better either. The Secretary of State says that every director would like to have money, but that is not what we are talking about. We are talking about a reduction in the budgets over the last five years, which means that people have no choice but to abolish running-in hours. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how high the budgets have been over the last five years. What's that drop in? How much was that compared to previous years? He may give that answer in the second term if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u79	If Mr Oskam wants to know in such detail the consequences of the targets to which many parties have contributed, I am not prepared to do so. We are now at a level of around 23 million a year. The decline over the years I can deliver in the second term. There have been a number of questions which have actually been raised more or less as to whether I can ensure that something remains open, whether in limited form or not. The short answer would be "no," but that's lame. The longer answer is that we will look at the consequences in monitoring. If there is reason to believe, or if there is reason to believe, that we are really missing a group, we will sit around the table. In my view, then, the Legal Loket will also need little incentive to find a different mix of activities in order to ensure that legal aid is guaranteed for everyone. The Chamber has concerns and sees risks. That's obvious. Those risks are also clear to the Legal Loket, I think, and so do I. All this will play a prominent role if we look at the effects. There are a few more questions on more detailed topics. The first question is why it was first said that it was necessary to strengthen and why it is now said that we do not. The reinforcement announced by my predecessor was part of a package. I can imagine that part of the Chamber is embracing that reinforcement, but not necessarily the rest of the package, because that meant further cuts. The relative reinforcement plays a more prominent role, but when we talk about a whole package, you should also see this in the light of that whole package. You can't just light that up right now. Mr Van Nispen asked if it would cost 1 million to reverse the closure. Of course, I don't get that amount in a business sheet. I understand that this is the amount mentioned by the window. If the conclusion is indeed that there should be some kind of walk-in time, you should simply look at what form you would like and what the budgetary consequences are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u80	With the comment on strengthening or weakening the Legal Loket, I wanted to show that I believe that it is also the responsibility of this Secretary of State. The previous Secretary of State could say in his plans: we're going to strengthen the Legal Loket and that's what we're going to do. Those plans have been frozen by the First Chamber. The Wolfsen Commission has started an investigation into the system and the alternatives. Then we cannot allow the Secretary of State to say in the meantime: well, I do not think it is my responsibility to see it happen in my eyes that the Legal Loket is weakened? Surely there is a responsibility of this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u81	It's rubbed at me a few times, but at first I distinguished the responsibilities; I didn't push them off me. I have a responsibility for the system of legal aid. I'm not running away from that. If I saw something happening in the business that I myself would think could only be a disaster, that's a different story than when you see opportunities in it. I can see those risks, but I cannot say in advance that it has a disastrous effect. So I can't say, on the basis of the greater authority now, boys, do it differently. I think you should give it a chance and that the Legal Loket itself is the first to adjust the situation when they find that there is a great deal of demand loss, especially in the category of most vulnerable, which Mr Van Nispen and I are right to care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u82	I would prefer the Secretary of State to worry a little earlier than when a disaster is taking place, because then we are somewhat late. It is precisely that research shows that people are being helped at the Legal Loket and that they are getting a high report rate. I'm talking specifically about walk-in hours. So people are being helped to their satisfaction and it's cheaper. I do not need to do so, but if the Secretary of State still wants to cut legal aid in the future, then it is very unwise to allow the cheap solution that is running-in time for many people to be abolished. Let us now be sensible and ensure that the measures are frozen until the Wolfsen Committee's report comes. It's the least we can do tonight, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u83	New savings on legal aid have been suspended pending the investigation of the Wolfsen Commission. You're dealing with the fact that technically, these aren't cuts in legal aid. It has that effect; I understand that. However, generic targets which are also reflected in legal aid have not been suspended. Those budgets have become smaller during Balkenende IV and Rutte I, but it has been agreed that the plans we still had have been suspended pending the investigation of the Wolfsen Committee. Motions have been tabled on this, and we respect them. That is a fact and it will remain so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u84	I have the impression that the majority of the House wants something politically that the Secretary of State doesn't want. That's his right. So we're gonna need a little time to do that. But the Chamber also wants to know what it costs to keep the counters open. The Secretary of State's got a bit of a way around that. Nor does it express any kind of willingness to make it transparent. But if the Chamber wants to make a political choice in it, I think it is up to her to make it. So I have two questions for the Secretary of State. Does he agree with me that the Chamber can make that choice if it wishes to do so in a majority? And does he want to promote that the Chamber can make that choice on the basis of figures, so that we know what it costs to keep those counters open?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u85	The Chamber deals with the budgetary frameworks in this country. Mr Schouw is quite right about that. When the Chamber takes decisions on this item in the budgetary procedure and gives direction to it, it is logical that it should be followed up. I hear different modalities in the Chamber. Do you keep it open in all locations as it was? Do you want it once a week? I hear several suggestions for that. I don't have a math for that. To this end, formally through the Legal Assistance Council, I should consult with the Legal Loket, in order to ask whether they can provide for this and what the options are. I'd be happy to put that question on the table. And when I get the answer, of course, I'd like to let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u86	Then we get somewhere, because that way the Chamber gets more insight into the costs. Does the Secretary of State therefore wish to encourage this to happen soon? So we're not gonna wait until we get the monitoring and check in six months, but we're really gonna have an insight into what it costs in a week or four?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u87	I'm willing to do that soon. If it really were entirely within my remit, I could have attached a deadline to that commitment. I will encourage it to happen soon, but I am, of course, dependent on third parties to cooperate. Mr Van Nispen asked another question about what he himself called "the referral circus." The discount on the own contribution is precisely intended to channel people to the Legal Loket. In this way, you will ensure that things that can be dealt with properly or that can be mediated to the right path do not end up in more expensive modalities. So it's a little difficult to maintain that function without that reference. It is precisely the intention that you go by the counter to have things filtered out there and to have the so-called triage applied there. Mr Oskam asked about the design of the monitoring. This monitoring must, of course, enable us to assess the impact on access to justice. Otherwise, it's gonna make less sense. There shall be coordination on the aspects to be addressed by such monitoring. The Ministry is involved. In particular, discussions are taking place between the Legal Loket and the Legal Assistance Board. As far as I am concerned, at least the possible demand failure and the impact on costs incurred by those seeking justice should be reflected in the monitoring. Of course, telephone charges have been referred to before. They are not entirely new, but they are slightly increased and the maximum amount associated with them is, of course, also a limitation. However, that factor must be taken into account. In particular, the position of vulnerable people seeking justice, for example those who have difficulty expressing themselves in the Dutch language, must and will also be an essential part of it. Mr Oskam asked for further measures to restrict access to the Legal Loket. As far as I know, it's not. These are the measures proposed by the Legal Loket itself and are designed to adapt the methodology to revenue and to optimise the services it wants to provide on the basis of the available budget. So I don't expect anything to come up. Mr Oskam also asked about the effects on staffing. This is also the responsibility of the management. So I have no insight into the specific effects on the workforce. However, I understand from the Legal Loket that staff are being deployed in a different way and that staff who were first employed at the walk-in desk are now also being deployed to streamline telephone services as much as possible so that ultimately there is less time needed for sound legal advice. Mr Oskam also asked about the travel distance to the Legal Loket. The walk-in hours disappear, but the locations don't. So the distances remain the same. I believe that there is now a reasonable spread of legal counters across the country. As more distance is transferred to distance, online or by phone in the first line, the travel distance will of course also become a slightly less pregnant risk or problem. At the establishment of the Legal Loket a travel distance of one hour was held. With the present spread, I have no reason to change anything about it or to intervene further on that point. Can we lower the call costs? That's the same kind of question as "can it be a little more there and can it be a little less there?" Yeah, but it does have its effects. Within the budgetary framework, lowering the cost of calling would lead to lower staffing on the telephone, for example, which could lead to longer waiting times. As Mr Recourt said, it comes from the length or width. If these call charges go off, then the Legal Loket has to take it somewhere else. I come to the constitutional argument that this would be contrary to the Constitution. The starting point is that the right of access to justice must not be violated in essence. That is not the case here either. The case law also states that there is no automatic right to legal aid paid by the public authorities and that, if it is awarded by society, there may also be conditions and limitations. It is not yet essentially a violation of fundamental rights that the seeker must make some effort and possibly cost. That is why I firmly believe that it is certainly not the case that the new method of working creates a constitutional problem. I would like to thank Mr Kuzu for giving me at least half a day's pleasure. I have already answered the question of responsibility. Mr Schouw's question on financial insights has just been dealt with in the case of interruption. Mr Oskam, I can say the following in relation to the multiannual mandate. A mandate of €693,000 came from the Rutte I cabinet and from the 2014 budget agreement an amount of €137,000. This totals up to €830,000 in 2018. For 2015, 23.5 million is available and 23.4 million for 2018. I think I've answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u88	Looks like the Chamber is satisfied. This brings an end to the government's first term of office. I suggest we proceed immediately to the second term of the Chamber. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u89	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is digitizing at a fast pace, and the PvdA is very concerned about the group that cannot come along. We have an example of this today: a group of people for whom the phone is too high a threshold and who cannot present their problem via e-mail. That group is essential and, in any case, very vulnerable. So it must continue to be helped. Shifting problems to the future by monitoring, I don't think it's a good solution. Moreover, I have not yet fully understood how that monitoring should be done at all. I have argued for chain financing a number of times. Legal Loket earns itself back when you see how much it filters. So, apart from this debate and beyond cuts in legal aid, we need to see how we can further strengthen the Legal Loket. That for later. The question now is whether these points of contact should remain open. My group says yes. The Secretary of State says that I can only intervene when it is at risk of disaster. It is not yet a disaster, but my group is convinced that it will be a disaster for the group for whom the phone is one step too far. That is why I support Mr Van Nispen's motion, which states that the window must remain open in one form or another. The Secretary of State can use that to go to the counter. He would do that anyway, but that is possible now, if a majority of the House votes in favour of this motion, and I expect it to do so with the mandate of the Chamber to ensure that the window remains open in one form or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u90	Mr. Chairman. The SP thinks abolishing the walk-in time is a bad idea. At the moment, there is an easily accessible facility that is clearly needed. The core of this debate is the question of responsibility or the question of competence. The Secretary of State doesn't think he can do much about this, so let me put it to you. However, the SP believes that as the system's responsibility for access to justice, you should face reality and dare to recognise the risks at an early stage. The reality is that a threshold is being set. We should not want to do that, driven by the interests of those who seek justice and the accessibility of justice. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the objective of the Legal Loket is to provide easily accessible legal assistance;]] [[Whereas closing the call-in hours raises the threshold for aid and excludes a group of vulnerable people from aid;]] [[considers that the Legal Loket should provide a point of contact for those who are unable to make a telephone appointment or seek help by e-mail;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that assistance is continued to be provided to the Legal Lockets desks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Nispen, Recourt, Oskam, Schouw, Segers, Van Tongeren, Thieme and Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u91	By my comment on the referral circus, I meant to say that it now happens that people are first with an attorney, then sent to the Legal Loket to collect the discount voucher "diagnosis and advice" is called "refundable" and then returned to the lawyer. My point is that this is not useful in all cases; let me put it this way. For example, in the case of under-supervision, this measure leads to unnecessary taxation of the Legal Loket. I've asked the Secretary of State to look into that. I'll put that question to him again. In response to a question from Mr Oskam, the Secretary of State said that he was not aware of any other plans for the Legal Loket in the future. Doesn't he know the rumor that the number of Legal Lockets would go from 30 to 20? Is that just a rumor and isn't that based on truth? Is the Secretary of State familiar with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u92	I have a brief question about the motion. Of course, I haven't been able to read the motion yet, but I've tried to listen carefully. Is the scope of the motion limited to the financial framework within which tonight's debate takes place, or does Mr Van Nispen think that speaking hours should remain anyway and that it should cost more money? I'm looking for the boundaries of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u93	That is a difficult question for someone who has tabled a motion co-signed by many colleagues. Mr Van Oosten can ask me about my personal opinion. I'm standing here as a SP'er. I believe that the Secretary of State should read the motion in such a way that these ten desks cannot abolish the opening hours and that there should be a consultation hour in those twenty places. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u94	I'm gonna try again anyway. There are many signatories, and I can imagine that they have formed their minds here too. Which way are you organizing this financially? We are not about business, but we are about access to justice. We have a certain budget for that and we have to do it for that. I can't make it prettier either. Is it in there now, or is Mr Van Nispen prepared to leave other things for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u95	Of course, it doesn't work that easy. We have been talking about it all evening that if money has to be found somewhere, Mr Schouw has also repeatedly offered it to us in the Ministry's folds. I am prepared to do that, too, if Mr Van Oosten asks me to do so. Of course we want to look at that. We are talking here about how we keep up the low-threshold provision that is now at stake. Where everyone in this Chamber, with the exception of Mr Van Oosten, is concerned about what is happening at the moment, Mr Van Oosten says: I do not think we are talking about it. The authors of the motion clearly do not think so, given the operative part and the request to the government to keep the low-threshold provision open.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u96	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer by the Secretary of State. I am not entirely satisfied on three points. This concerns in particular the distance criterion. The Secretary of State has said that it is not a problem that the buildings remain and that the people can go there. Anyway, we're in a time of austerity. Maybe we didn't see this coming so well either. I do think it is important that people in the Netherlands within an hour should be able to take my criterion to a Legal Loket. This is not a problem in the big cities, but it is of course a problem in the region. I'll let the Secretary of State know we're keeping a close eye on that. When it came to monitoring, the Secretary of State didn't come out very well. He said the Ministry will look into the possible outage. Mrs Van Tongeren put it a bit on edge in a funny way, because she said, "Are we going to ask people on the street if they might have had a legal problem and perhaps wish they had been at the Legal Loket?" It is therefore necessary to clarify this. I'd like to know how it's measured. I'll make a motion on that later. Furthermore, I believe that in future the Legal Loket should be spared. I'd like to file two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, due to a shrinking budget, the Legal Loket aims, inter alia, to abolish the call-in hours in all locations;]] [[Whereas the Legal Loket is an important instrument in the so-called first line of subsidised legal aid;]] [[Whereas it is unclear how the effects of the abolition of call-in hours will be monitored;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into a short-term dialogue with the Foundation for Legal Assistance and the Legal Assistance Board in order to assess how the effects of closing the call-in hours will be monitored and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014 the Cabinet intended to save EUR 9.4 million on the implementation costs of the Legal Assistance Board and the Legal Loket;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is currently examining alternative savings on subsidised legal aid in general;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet wishes to strengthen the Legal Loket in order to resolve many disputes without the need for a lawyer to be added through the subsidised legal aid;]] [[calls on the Government, if it comes forward with new proposals on savings on subsidised legal aid, to refrain as far as possible from the Legal Loket,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-95]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oskam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u97	I don't understand the CDA's first motion. The CDA also endorsed Mr Van Nispen's motion, which states that there is no closure at all. That motion can also count on a majority in the Chamber. There is therefore no need to monitor this closure at all. I don't understand the double message very well. Can this be explained?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u98	It is not a double message, but nothing is certain in politics. So you never know what's gonna happen next. I can count, of course. The motion will be adopted, but the question is whether everything that has happened now can be reversed. If that doesn't happen, at least I want to know what the consequences are. So it's not contradictory, but one doesn't rule out the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u99	I would nevertheless like the CDA Group, like all the other groups here today, with the exception of the VVD Group, to support the implementation of Mr Van Nispen's motion. As far as the motion on monitoring is concerned, I would suggest to Mr Oskam that they be retained if the government does not wish to carry out the Van Nispen motion. I don't think that double message is very useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u100	The message is that we support Van Nispen's motion, that we believe that these points should remain open and that the points of contact which are not yet closed but which are likely to be closed will also remain open. We know all kinds of procedures here in the Chamber, and we can also agree this week that we may hold or withdraw them if that motion is not adopted. I'll think about that; I have to count to 75, but we'll probably make it. So anything can still be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u101	Mr. Chairman. My name was also under the motion to keep the Legal Lockets open wherever possible. We have made it clear enough in interrupting debates why we consider it so essential for the rule of law. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas access to justice and the availability of subsidised legal aid are national and internationally recognised human rights;]] [[Whereas the introduction of telephone hours of the Legal Loket raises thresholds for many of those seeking justice because there are far from everyone with a telephone connection, the costs cannot be charged and there is no way that everyone can explain their legal problems by telephone;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that those seeking justice can reach the Legal Loket without additional telephone charges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Van Nispen and Schouw. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u102	Finally, I ask the Secretary of State if he thinks that there is a group that is indeed able to use a website, look for information in a library or has enough capable people in his own circle to find out, who is waiting in line for the Legal Loket in the morning and who will soon be able to be helped via the website or telephone. How big does the Secretary of State think that group would be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u103	Mr. Chairman. I think that tonight we have discussed a number of very interesting subjects, the essence of which is that the telephone is something delicious, but not a thrill to discuss all the problems that exist in this society. Because sometimes personal contact is also necessary and people just want to get rid of their story with another person. Very often, too, the telephone is not the ultimate means of sharing your problem with another person and getting advice on it. That's actually kind of the logic of things. That's what we're talking about tonight. My group welcomes the fact that a majority in this Chamber says that the telephone is not the only way to get in touch with the Legal Loket and that, in addition, the existing means of consultation must continue. So I'm glad the majority wants that. That is why I supported Mr Van Nispen's motion, as did Mrs Van Tongeren's motion, which seeks to address the distressing telephone costs. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has said, after some pressure, that he is going to see what the possible costs are, and that he must map them out. I think that is quite right, because we are not sitting here tonight, of course, just talking for the often. There is a very serious motion and Mr Van Nispen did not come entirely out of its cover. If the Chamber takes itself seriously and if we adopt that motion, it also entails the duty that we, as political parties, seek cover here when it is necessary. I'm glad the Secretary of State has joined us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u104	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I have no choice either, because I have only been given few minutes in the second term, as have my fellow Members. The reason I come forward is not so much to thank the Secretary of State for the answers to the questions I have asked him. Honestly, I didn't actually ask him any questions. I'm walking forward because I want one misconception out of the world. A number of my fellow Members have occasionally made a point that seemed to suggest that this evening the VVD would have taken a different view on access to justice. The opposite is true. The VVD only says the following. We have read the letter from the Secretary of State and heard his comments on access to law and his comments on customization, service, telephony, the Internet and afterwards an appointment. I'm telling you, there's nothing wrong with that. I also do not understand very well what is wrong with it, given that you can make it happen much more efficiently along the way and given the fact that all those seeking justice are addressed by the Legal Loket in a decent and proper manner, as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u105	This is yet another time that Mr Van Oosten clings to the letter from the Secretary of State, which he finds so fantastic and clear. But I'm not interested in the Secretary of State's letter. I'm interested in what the VVD Group thinks. Do I understand why Mr Van Oosten is saying: as far as the VVD Group is concerned, there is no problem with access to justice through telephone consultation; that is not a problem at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u106	I'm referring to what I just said. There wasn't a word of Spanish in there. For the VVD, access to justice is central, but I also note that I said in the first term that we have to organise it with a certain number of cents. Then I have every reason to believe that access to justice is assured by this route, via telephone consultations, via online services and through further discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u107	That is exactly what I just said to Mr Van Oosten, isn't it? For the VVD group there is no dirt in the air. It sees no problem in current practice. Nor does it see any problem in closing the counters. Isn't that what the VVD Group is saying here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u108	I see you can have one-on-one conversations with each other at those counters. Those counters do that, and they keep doing that. But unlike Mr Schouw, I also believe that people who cannot make a direct phone call themselves or do not have the Internet themselves, if they have a problem and are looking for an entrance, ask themselves: who in my area could do that; who in my area would speak the language in the country where I live? If you have a little faith in that, I think it is possible that all those who seek justice, including those who do not speak Dutch and those who cannot make a phone call, will ultimately be properly addressed by the Legal Loket.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u109	This brings to an end the second term of the Chamber. I was told the Secretary of State wanted to suspend for five minutes, but he's already standing. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u110	Mr. Chairman. Mr Oskam has urged me to try to get as much of a football match as possible. I don't want to get in the way of that. In his speech, Mr Recourt pointed to the motion in part No. 94 which Mr Van Nispen has also tabled on behalf of him and many other Members. When I read this motion very strictly, it says I have to take care of something I can't necessarily take care of. In that sense, I have to dissuade her, because I can't do that surgery. I have, of course, heard the debate. When I read the motion, I have different opinions on this. Firstly, I should like to point out that services, the change that also offers opportunities, in particular through the better use of modern communication technology, do not have the opportunity to develop. The risks the Court sees do not outweigh the opportunities that arise from them. In any case, I will go through the Legal Assistance Council and talk to the Legal Loket to see how much it costs to open the desks. I already promised. I will also look with the Legal Assistance Council at what is possible within the budget to keep a limited provision open for the most vulnerable people. I'll report to the Chamber. The motion refers to 'care for it'. In the strict sense, therefore, I must advise against the motion, but perhaps Mr Van Nispen and the other signatories can consider holding the motion until I have discussed it. I shall, of course, leave that to the author and the other signatories of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u111	But what is your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u112	The term 'care for it' implies that I have the authority on this point and I do not have it. So I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u113	There are many of us, so I'm not just talking about the interpretation of things. Moreover, this is a matter for the applicant. I do have a question about the deadline. I understand that the Secretary of State doesn't lead the parties on and that he can't formally promise that he'll take care of it next week, but can he promise that he'll be in a hurry where it's in his power? We know that the second week will end with the last ten walk-in hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u114	My original plan was to include this in the monitoring as a major issue. Hearing the Chamber, however, I can see that before then I have to discuss the question of principle, even if only to find out the information I have promised Mr Schouw. I'll report to the Chamber. I can't predict the outcome right now. Questions have also been asked about evaluation and monitoring. It would be silly to talk only about surveys. The waiting times on the phone monitor you automatically. The same applies to the question of whether complaints come in and signals from the field and other data subjects about waste collectors. The demand loss, as it is technically called, can also be monitored, as well as the number of customers, also in terms of types. It should also be agreed that attention should be paid to the possible loss of vulnerable persons. It is foreseen that this will not be the case, as the available alternatives can adequately accommodate people. Mrs Van Tongeren asks how many of these people will be able to be helped by telephone or by e-mail, because they are obviously not there for their fun. People are now also often there because they have been reminded of this possibility or because they have had a little help from their friends. If there is another channel, not being the walk-in, the help, the guidance and the reference will of course also go to that other channel. You can't say in advance that this doesn't work and that people who are now being told that they have to be so late on Tuesday morning aren't helped with a phone call or an e-mail. It depends on how you weigh this and whether you look at it optimisticly or less optimisticly. We've exchanged enough about it. Mr Van Nispen had a question about referral. I understand his question better now. I don't think it's a circus act, because you can also get that referral over the phone. It's gonna be more efficient. Then you can also get a diagnostic document. If the monitoring shows that this is a problem, we must give it to the Wolfsen Commission. That committee is now the appropriate way forward when it comes to future potential adjustments to the system. Mr Oskam's criterion was also applied at the start of the Legal Loket. He's right about that. His motion for a resolution on the short-term consultation will be included in the discussion. In that sense, I see the motion as a support for my policy. We have already been in contact with the monitoring, but we will continue to do so. Apart from my expectation that no one in the field will be deaf to what has been said in the Chamber tonight, we will bring this to our attention in our contacts. At the moment, I would like to approve the Oskam motion on item No. 96, because we have just said that the Wolfsen Committee is going to work, which will give us a picture and we will link it back. We will then, if necessary, make new plans, which we will discuss with the Chamber. I don't want to anticipate that. I'm not saying I'm going to do the opposite of the motion. However, I do not want to anticipate the matter in any way and I do not want to get in the way of the committee by saying that whatever you will advise us in all your wisdom, I will at least do so or not do so. The motion-Van Tongeren c.s. in piece No. 97 is a direct intervention in business, with financial consequences that are not covered in the motion, so I advise against the adoption of the motion. I think I've answered the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u115	The operative part of the motion does not state that the government must pay the telephone charges, but must arrange for the legal Loket to be reached. The Secretary of State may do so from me in all kinds of different ways, but at least I want to hear from him or he also thinks that those costs should at least not be higher than what is now paid at UWV. It's two tonnes, so it's really not the impossible either. Isn't it really possible to do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u116	The fact that it does not cost money directly in my budget does not mean that it does not cost money. Then it costs money from the Legal Loket. That is a direct intervention in the business environment, which I cannot do, even though I would like to do so. About the comparison with UWV I say: that is a different type of service and it is a different type of contact. This concerns professional legal assistance. I don't think this should be one-on-one the same thing. I would advise against this motion, because I am not embracing it now in the vein of: I am just walking in and saying that telephone charges should also be abolished. I can't, but besides that, I wouldn't want to. Those phone charges have been there for a number of years. Of course, Mrs Van Tongeren does not need to convince, but they are here and it works so far. I see no reason to intervene in such detail in business operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-31.u117	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
