ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, with a special welcome to the members of the Cabinet: the Prime Minister and the Minister for Security and Justice. There are ten Members of Parliament who are taking part in the debate. A speaking time of five minutes per group has been agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Why is this debate necessary? Because a large part of the Chamber wants to "keep the foot on the wrist." Four weeks ago, the Prime Minister said in this Chamber: it is our opinion that we can handle the work with the current best-affining and funding. As representatives of the people, we get a completely different picture. For example, a condemned jihadist managed to escape attention and travel out. There was a letter of fire from Mayor Van Aartsen. He asked for help in the shelter of jihadists. There is also surprise that constructive motions by the Chamber to regulate money and capacity for security services are not recommended. That fits a trend. The cabinet acts only reactively. It doesn't think ahead. In the summer, a hasty 38-point plan came out of nowhere and six months later the same plan has not yet been completed. It is constantly adjusted ad hocly. The idea of a hotline, suggested in Buitenhof, is suddenly taken over. That doesn't sound very thoughtful, even if that plan comes from colleague Van Haersma Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u3	I would draw Mr Pechtold's attention to a contradiction in his text. He says that the cabinet is only reactive, but he also says that an action plan came out of nowhere. How can something that comes out of nowhere be reactive? Can he explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u4	It came out of nowhere, but it was a warmed-up old wreck. It was 38 points of which we could have read 23 earlier. I'm sure Mr Zijlstra remembers that. Minister Opstelten had two points on which he himself had no clarity and of which he did not yet know what he wanted to do with it. You can approach it from both sides: it wasn't there or it was already there. However, it was at least a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u5	It was a reaction to things that happened in the world. The cabinet responded neatly to that, following many of the points the VVD had introduced. D66 then served a lot of points, such as taking away Dutch nationality from jihadgoers. What point is Mr Pechtold trying to make? The cabinet acts, acts and acts and does not respond to others; it itself sets out the lines. D66 is the batch that reacts continuously and often negative. What does Mr Pechtold want now in the field of security? Does he want us to tackle matters and ensure safety in the Netherlands, or does he just want to comment on the sidelines and create the picture that nothing is happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u6	No, of course that is not the case. The removal of passports without the intervention of the judge, who forgot to say something, Mr Zijlstra, we would like to take a close look at first, as we have said. Mr Zijlstra himself was aware that D66 was not on the sidelines when the cabinet asked the Chamber to think and help one and a half years ago. We then said, for example, that the VVD wants to cut a third on the security services, but that is not sensible; that is not possible. The Christian Union and the SGP also thought so. We agreed with the three of us. The original plan of this cabinet was to take a third away from the security services. I am very glad that it was said at that time: come from that side line, Pechtold; that is a good idea; help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u7	I would like Mr Pechtold to make a movement here on behalf of D66. He says about taking away nationality: it's just that bit with the judge, but I want to make that movement on my own. Well, we're gonna take it. Very well, Mr Pechtold has moved up again. It's going in the right direction. As far as the money is concerned, I say to Mr Pechtold: those three parties may indeed receive the funds for this. That applies to D66, but that also applies to the PvdA and the VVD. We felt the same way. Mr Pechtold would be delighted if he also outlined the initial situation of D66. Wouldn't his party in her election program have cut half a billion dollars on the security services? D66, like us, also had to correct its electoral programme. So it is nice that Mr Pechtold blames us for that, but he also needs to look at himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u8	Half a billion cuts on the security services, with 210 million in them, seems to me to be on the penalty side. That is certainly not true. If Mr Zijlstra means "on the security domain," then I can say: yes, all six major parties in the Lower House said in 2012 that it could be a bit less. And D66 said: that is not only cutting back here in the Netherlands, that is working together in Europe in the field of defence and in the exchange of security data. There is an enormous efficiency to be achieved. This is different from the VVD that, when it comes to priorities, with the PVV opts for the animal police instead of what is ahead today. And if she's working with the PvdA, the VVD will take a third away from the security work. But I was and am glad that we have jointly come to a more sensible policy. And now we're gonna move on. I will continue my speech. The VVD wants machine guns in the street statue and promptly we get marechaussees. Another reaction! It is precisely on the subject of safety that it is important that we, as a Chamber, close the queues where possible. But don't come up with symbol legislation and delayed reactions! Do not refuse to give in public insight! If you reprioritize and intensify, indicate where it will then be removed! I think that is one of the most important points. Give us less reason, group chairmen, to ask these kinds of questions! In short, when does the cabinet take the initiative, where is the power? Why, for example, is it taking so long for the action plan to be implemented? I read "in full swing," "reporting at the end of March." That sounds so empty. Why is it not crystal clear when what measure is ready? I don't think it's that hard to make a list of dates per action point. Is the Minister of Security and Justice prepared to do so? Then the capacity. I read that all available resources are used throughout the safety chain. Then I think: with just one extra traveller we have another capacity problem. When is anyone even a traveler? Do you have to cross the border or have you arrived in the battle zone with evidence? I'd like to hear a clear definition of the Minister. Those 3,000 extravagants from Europe, how topical is that number? The Spanish are already talking about tens of thousands of Europeans at ISIS. I read about the capacity every time in the letter 'in the future', 'in the future' and so on. What's it concrete now? In what period does the Minister of Security and Justice mean? Is he referring to 2016, 2017 or 2018? Create clarity, govern ahead, get the expertise and people that will be needed later! Then the security of buildings by the marshalssee. Fortunately, agents are allowed to return to their neighborhood, as the ears and eyes of society. But what has changed since January 14th? Wasn't it already foreseeable at that time that the threat would be long-term and that there would be a heavy seizure of the police? And what does the military military use for its other tasks, such as border control, the fight against trafficking in human beings and the detection of drugs? What's breaking up now? How much FTE are we talking about? Isn't that changing the problem? I now come specifically to the capacity of the intelligence services. Due to the initial cuts of the cabinet that covered one third of the budget, Mr Zijlstra just referred to this matter. The AIVD is still catching up. That's what we read in the papers. When can the AIVD do its own work again? When can the loan agents get back to the police? Does the Minister have a specific date for this? Since 2013, part of the AIVD-work has stopped. STUDY prioritises because of limited resources available. That can't be without consequences, can it? I would also like to receive a comment on this. It remains unclear whether the safety chain as a whole has sufficient resources and human resources. Without openness, we cannot control the government properly. That is why I urge both ministers: give us openness and reassure the Netherlands, not by reactively chasing the facts, but by proactively taking the initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u9	I can tell you that Mr Pechtold wants action. That appeals to me; very well. I recognize that in the cabinet, by the way. That's the good news, but that's for the cabinet to explain. It is also a question of Parliament's decisiveness. We need to talk here, for example, about what we do with cable-based surveillance. Do we ensure that the intelligence services, within the safeguards necessary, are given the opportunity to do their job? Does D66 go with that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u10	There was an extensive debate on it yesterday. D66 may have surprised the VVD that it is open to that, provided it is properly controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u11	That surprises me, but very joyful. So Mr Pechtold says quite clearly here: we are in favour. That must of course be guaranteed with the necessary guarantees; we all find that in this house. But he's basically in favour of it. Yesterday the answer was exactly the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u12	Yeah, that's the other way around. First, you have to create the conditions to be able to check that you're for something. That's like asking if you're giving support to the Greeks. There are those who say: we never do that, apart from what happens. D66 always looks at the situation first and then takes a stand. For this reason, we can also say yes if the conditions are right. I'd say that's a big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u13	Finally, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u14	That's a little too easy. In the intelligence services, this has a large connection to capacity. If the intelligence services have to act with a blindfold at 90% of what their work is so slowly, namely cable-based supervision, they need a lot of extra power, because then they are not allowed to do anything else. I can now hear Mr Pechtold say two things. The first time he says: I think we should make that move, but of course there are guarantees. I like that. The second time he says it exactly the other way around, namely: I want to see guarantees first and then I'm going to judge whether it's necessary. If he wants to do what he says he wants, then he also says: I have a positive basic attitude. Of course, these guarantees are part of this; I agree with that. Is that it? Or is it the questionable attitude of commenting and saying: first let's see and then decide? I think this is a very clear point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u15	I think it's fantastic that a contradiction is being sought here, but I'm also looking a little bit. Is it "I want to win the game and for that I have to play it" or "I'm going to play the game for the purpose of winning it"? Isn't that the exact same thing? Of an opportunity to apply this instrument in a good, responsible and well-controlled manner within our democratic rule of law, we indicated yesterday and today that we would like to look at it. But I'm most surprised about the following. There are now two debates on security, of which Mr Zijlstra radiates a little 'why do we have this debate?' I am already pleased that Mr Zijlstra and I have come to more and more ideas in five minutes. That's great; we'll continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u16	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u17	I call Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u18	What a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u19	I will just stop by Mr Zijlstra's bench and finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u20	I hear Mr Pechtold say something about capacity in the safety chain. It's under pressure; he's right about that. Well, then, I have a question. Mr Pechtold's group colleague, Mrs Berndsen, called for police officers in the schoolyard to counter radicalisation. But the D66 Group has been complaining for a long time that there are too many tasks in the police. How should this task be completed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u21	That's the neighborhood cop who doesn't just stand in front of the school gate, but also once into the school square and maybe enter the school. A school is a public space. The feeling of insecurity among pupils and teachers is a serious problem. The problem of the street also takes place in the schoolyard and in the school. That is why it is important that the ears and eyes of the district agent are happy that there are, as deep as possible, in the capillaries of society. I think it is fantastic that local agents here in The Hague also go into the teahouse to hear what is going on and to see if there is radicalisation. They even go into the prayer houses to hear what's going on. The same idea is there at the schools: hear what is going on, listen to the signals of society and do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u22	Then I would like to ask Mr Pechtold: who does he think is winning in the minds of potential jihadists, Allah or the policeman who is a welfare worker? Mr Pechtold turns the policeman into a sort of welfare worker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u23	Until the clothes are considered the question of how a young person looks at a police officer. That has been different in the past. I believe that we are dealing with this in a realistic way at the moment. The police shouldn't just be something you're afraid of, but at the right moments, fortunately, you're afraid of it. A policeman must also be someone with whom you have the feeling: he is guarding our legal order; I can turn to that if there is a wrongdoing. It's gotta be low-threshold. Despite the era of internet and digital reporting, I think that those eyes and ears in society are of the utmost importance to Mr Bontes, who himself has experience with them. So start as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. When it comes to national security, the public must always be able to count on the government. The cabinet must invest enough for this. That's what the Prime Minister has to tell the honest story about. No one wants national security to be messed with. Last month, the Prime Minister here in the Lower House said that the AIVD and the other services have sufficient people and resources to carry out their duties. So how can he announce that the services are making an analysis to see if there is sufficient manpower to take up all that extra work? Why does the Prime Minister first promise that everything is in order and is he not going to investigate until after? I'd like a statement from the Prime Minister. For me, and with me many other group chairmen, there was every reason to doubt the Prime Minister's statements. That is why we have asked him very critical and intrusive questions about national security. Those questions didn't come out of the sky. We were getting so many signals that the various services die in work, have to leave work, be deployed elsewhere, get other priorities and so on. It was therefore incomprehensible to me that the Prime Minister here in the Chamber spoke soothing words. But also the reassuring words of the Prime Minister in the last letter do not convince at all. He says the police have plenty of people, but in the meantime, military forces are deployed to guard people and buildings. The Prime Minister says that the Public Prosecutor has sufficient capacity, but in the meantime, piles of things remain on the shelves. He says the services have enough people, but in the meantime agents are being deployed to take up the open spaces and other priorities are being set, either: people are being taken away from other tasks to engage in jihadism. It seems that the Prime Minister is filling holes mainly by punching holes elsewhere, and that is dangerous and irresponsible. Mayors say they can't handle the responsibility for receiving jihadists. Has the Prime Minister spoken to the Mayor of The Hague, who openly criticises cabinet policy? Research carried out by the SP shows that not only we but 84% of the officers questioned do not believe the reassuring words of the government. Those are the people in practice, the people who have to do the work and those daily brands where the deficits are. Why does the government not respond to the proposals of the police unions, which state that all these new tasks require at least 2,000 extra agents? And yes, the D.A. does give priority to dangerous people. That is what they say, and I believe it is, but that means that other work remains to be done. And that's the point! Is the cabinet prepared to have an independent investigation conducted into all those cases that are now remaining with the detectives and the prosecutor's office due to lack of capacity? Also at the Dutch Forensic Institute, the Dutch CSI, there is considerable savings. It's 14% off the budget. Seventy-seven full-time jobs are disappearing. Internal records show that this austerity strikes everywhere in the workplace, except for management. Certain expertises are simply abolished. The staff in a letter indicate that they are seriously concerned about the quality of the search and prosecution. The National Police will have to take over more tasks from now on. We will have it again, but the National Police do not have the means to do so at all. The question is whether these policemen are as well trained as the NFI staff. The security services have sufficient capacity by reprioritisation to do the work on jihadism, according to the Prime Minister. This means in Dutch that they have been removed from other important investigations or can give less attention to those investigations. What kind of business is that? Why can't we have fewer people all of a sudden? The Prime Minister's answers to the questions of the group chairmen did not reassure me, quite the contrary! I am extremely pleased that police officers are willing to fill the holes in the AIVD and the police police officers, but I also ask the Prime Minister what holes they leave behind. Are there fewer people available to tackle the Mafia war in Amsterdam? Detectives tell us that even liquidation investigations are stalling, because detectives have to run hard into the following investigations. How does the Prime Minister feel about that? Are there fewer agents now to deal with organized crime behind the drug trade in Brabant? Is there now less military available to arrange security at Schiphol? Those are all questions I would like an answer to. How can we believe the Prime Minister's reassuring words when the opposite is constantly shown? The people are entitled to honest answers. Too much work has already been done, more work is added and many other work in the field of safety and research remains due to the shifting of priorities. There's only one cheese left. The truth is that the AIVD, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office are filling one hole with another and not investing, but cutting back on security. In 2015, more than 325 million are involved in the Public Prosecutor's Office, the NFI and the police. Last month, the Prime Minister said he wouldn't last a second if it turned out that AIVD, the police or the Public Prosecutor's Office would require additional investments. I ask the Prime Minister today whether his eyes are now open or whether he is still sticking his head in the sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the Paris attacks on 14 January, the Prime Minister was undoubtedly the Prime Minister. He said: "At the moment, it is our belief that the AIVD is able to do what it and other services need to do with its current bestafficing and funding." It is at the heart of this public statement by the Prime Minister that makes us stand here now. The seven group chairmen who asked written questions to the Prime Minister hear totally different sounds from the field. This debate would not have been requested if those noises were sporadic, but they are not. They come from mayors, people of justice, police and so on. We also see it in the public documents in the Chamber. The cuts on the AIVD, the STUDY, the NFI, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Defense Department are major targets that are not without consequences. The big question is how the Prime Minister could be so sure at that time. The Minister for Security and Justice also says time and time again that his services can handle it. He added that almost all priorities were changed in favour of these areas, but of course not all of them can be true. There's holes falling, big holes. My first question to the Prime Minister is, therefore, how he looks back on that statement of January and what he hears from the people who are speaking and who are all expressing great concern. I cannot imagine the Prime Minister and the Minister of Security and Justice hearing different noises than we do. The Prime Minister also said in the debate on 14 January that additional resources will be available when needed and that money will not be the problem. Then the big question is, when will that moment come and who will judge it? The Prime Minister's thesis was that the services could handle the work. However, we now know that the facts are different. Then I come to the letter which the cabinet, at least the Prime Minister, sent to the Chamber in preparation for this debate. In that statement, the Prime Minister announced that he had asked the relevant services and chain partners, say the people we have also spoken about as group chairmen, to see if they should be strengthened. How sure could the Prime Minister then be on 14 January if he had to acknowledge, after these questions, that he did not actually know the answer of the chain partners mentioned? What's with the investigation? The Prime Minister and the Minister speak to their own people, don't they? They also speak the mayors, the people in the sector, don't they? They must have heard the same thing in those conversations as the Chamber. Then there's no need for a detailed investigation, is there? It's not a question to the services, it's a question to the cabinet. What does the Cabinet, I ask the Prime Minister, want the services to be able to do? Does the cabinet accept that one hole is filled with another? Or does the cabinet also say that the fact that the police are going to be here to secure Parliament means that there are gaps elsewhere? Does the Cabinet also say that, now that the Marechaussee is being flown in here, holes arise elsewhere? That is a question that is political, which the cabinet has to answer and which cannot simply pass it on to the services. I have responded positively to the fact that the Marechaussee relieves the police in the security of, for example, the Lower House and other institutions. At the same time, I'd like to know what we won't do. Every time that story we prioritize and do more, when it is not said honestly what can no longer be done, that is what annoys me. Those people from the Marechaussee weren't at home before they came here, were they? They were guarding foreigners, they were working in foreign control, perhaps at Schiphol Airport or in the Rotterdam Harbour. These are also tasks for our security and tasks to combat jihadism, terrorism and crime. In short, are the Prime Minister and the Minister of Security and Justice prepared to indicate not only where more is happening, but also where less is happening? Then I have another question for the Minister of Security and Justice. The Mayor of The Hague has written to his council that he experiences bottlenecks in stopping returners. A small portion will be in jail, a large part will have to look at the mayor. He says, "I can't take it anymore." What's the Minister's answer to that? In the recent letter, the cabinet indicated that it would finally come forward with the notification. I asked for that in Buitenhof. The cabinet had written this before, in August, in a letter to the Chamber, but we hadn't heard from it since. I would like to hear an answer to the question as to when the proposal will come to the Chamber and who exactly will be covered by it. Are those just people in the criminal circuit, or is it wider? I come to a conclusion, my time is almost up. The cabinet has no happy hand in communicating on the capacity of the security services in the field of jihadism and radicalisation. The difference between the words "we're prioritizing" and the facts "holes everywhere" are too large. If I count the number of times the Minister of Security and Justice puts the words 'priority', 'action','speed' and'speed', I can write a book full of it, while the actual activities do not even fill an A4'. It's time to act. Get behind your shifts, listen to them and give them the resources you need!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr Van Haersma Buma says: give the resources needed. I fully recognise and support his plea to put a lot of money into the security domain, in the security of the Netherlands. How is it possible that the CDA was also the party that wanted to save EUR 500 million on the security domain during this period? That's more than any other party that's had her election program passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u27	I've heard that number before. I believe it was brought into the world in the program Buitenhof. It's okay to relate this figure to where it came from. We all have the 500 million; I shall come back to that. It is the impact of the state-wide device discount on the entire area of Home Affairs and Justice. This is described in KiK (Keuzes in Map) as "safety," but it is a device discount in a much wider field than only on the specific investigative bodies. I've checked it out and a number of parties are also making specific investments in the police. I believe that this applies to the VVD and also to the SGP. That 500 million is simply an amount of equipment costs that we have all calculated and that extends much wider than just the safety component.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u28	But even if you put the reduction in device costs in the security domain, that means less space for agents on the street. That is why we have said in our election programme: if you want to be positive about this, you have to do a lot more. That is why we voted for an additional 250 million for this period. I am concerned with the question of how to be credible in asking the cabinet why it cuts so much, while, on balance, it cuts even less than what was envisaged in the CDA charts for this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u29	However, I do not understand your question. The SGP has agreed to all the cuts here. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, we provided alternatives for more money to the security services. You could have supported those alternatives, but you chose to support all these cuts. Once again, the savings from KiK are about a much wider palette and you can't just assign to it. Besides, when things went wrong, you should have seen that it couldn't go on like this. My main point in this debate with the cabinet is that it is playing nicely and says that it is prioritizing, while we now see that things are going wrong. If you want to leave it at that, that's fine, but I don't think you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u30	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u31	Thanks for letting me go again, because I'm being addressed to myself now. Mr Van Haersma Buma referred to the question. He asks, "Why didn't you try harder to achieve more?" I admit that we have not been able to reverse all the cuts, but we have always been able to contribute, for example, to strengthening the Public Prosecutor's Office and combating jihadisation. My point remains that, in the end, the cuts proposed by the CDA for this period still go further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u32	That's not right. The amount of savings on the safety chain is not a 500 million that goes back to the security services, which is the subject of discussion. This is also about internal affairs tasks that have nothing to do with security. Alone, the KiK... What does the Prime Minister say? "Slap story"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u33	You are now in a debate with Mr Van der Staaij and not with the Prime Minister. We'll see about that later. I ask the Prime Minister to refrain from speaking in box K at the time he has to listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u34	Perhaps the Prime Minister, if he does not like this story, will be able to give a concrete answer to the concerns of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the NFI and all those services that are under pressure. If you're criticizing that, it's "a weak story," but I'd like to think it's strong if the Prime Minister would just point out where the holes are and what he's gonna do about it. Apart from the questions about the electoral programmes, to which I have already replied: whether you acknowledge that there is a problem, or whether you are trying to mask Mr Zijlstra and apparently Mr Van der Staaij, you acknowledge that there is a huge burden on the security services because of the international security situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u35	I just heard my name. It is interesting that Mr Buma assumes that I find something apparently, while I have not yet said anything. First of all, I would like to make a small correction: there is no reduction in the safety chain in our electoral programme. Let that be corrected. Moreover, I do not know what Mr Buma is trying to do: 500 million savings on the safety chain is not a reduction in safety, is it? Anyway, Mr Buma should try to explain that. I'm not gonna do that for him. My question concerns the following. Mr Buma was at Buitenhof and has just said that he wants a cabinet with determination and vision. Now Mr Buma in Buitenhof made a proposal for a reporting obligation for situations where people see that there may be extravagants. Mr Buma felt that this should be done. However, that is already coming this way, in March. This is stated in the Cabinet's action plan, which came to the Chamber in autumn 2014. That has gone into consultation and that is already going on. What are the words of Mr Buma and the CDA worth? They take the size of the cabinet and then present a new idea that the cabinet has long been in operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u36	The Prime Minister is now reacting to Mr Zijlstra again, which distracts me somewhat. The Prime Minister agrees with him. He says: Mr Zijlstra, it is true. The sad thing is that we haven't heard from what the cabinet presented in September. There's been no mention of that. However, as soon as I mentioned it in Buitenhof, the cabinet said in the next letter: a bill is coming. That should've been there by now. There's got to be a reporting obligation. I don't know if the idea is being implemented the way I want it to be. It must not be just criminals; it must be broader. Mr Zijlstra here defends that the cabinet has not done anything about it for four months, that there will be something here six months after the Prime Minister's cry for help. I think that's way too slow. There should be no need for a ruling in Buitenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u37	It's still a bit crooked about what's being said here. The cabinet presents it in the autumn, starts working on it and soon comes to the Chamber with it. It is not the case that Mr Buma in Buitenhof screams and is then acting. Mr Buma is like someone who throws a hand mud in a pond with beautiful clean water and then says: hey, look, cloudy water. That is what you are doing, Mr Buma. You're trying to paint the picture of a cabinet that doesn't do anything, but the only thing that comes out is that a new idea you supposedly had turns out to be a copy of something the cabinet has been doing for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u38	If only the cabinet did it. That letter was sent in September of last year. We had a debate earlier, on 14 January. At that time, a lot of laws had to be sent to the Chamber. This one's not even here yet. If I were you, I would appeal to the Cabinet instead of addressing me on a plan that the Cabinet should carry out. At least I hope you'll support the cabinet when it comes to a plan that goes far enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u39	Madam President. Today exactly four weeks ago, I stood here and, on behalf of the PVV Group, expressed my anger at the incompetence of this cabinet with regard to the terrorist approach. I called on the cabinet to wake up, to name Islam as the cause of the miserable, to close the borders, to stop Islamization, to let jihadists go or at least to put them in jail and never to let jihadgoers go back; never again back in the Netherlands. We've been four weeks and we haven't made any progress. It hasn't gotten any better and it's gotten worse. The Netherlands is faced with about the greatest threat since the Second World War and the policy is still characterized by amateurism and extremely dangerous political correctness. Last summer, when Muslims paraded the streets of The Hague with ISIS flags and cried "death to the Jews," there was no minister to be seen and the VVD mayor of The Hague did not even want to return from his holiday address in France. Now that a new mosque in Leiden is being protested without violence, Minister Asscher runs like a hare to Leiden and the mayor of Leiden speaks shame of it within three minutes. What a double morale, what a selective rage and what a cowardly Islam hug. Meanwhile, the government is supporting even more Islam in the Netherlands. Like nothing happened. As if our country's problem is that we have too little Islam in the Netherlands. In Gouda a megamoskee can now be built with a real apartheid wall around it, so that the Muslim men with beards do not have to see women's legs. Crazy, Mr. Chairman. This country seems to be run by nothing but crazy drivers. The judiciary can do something about it too. You know, chairman, that my party, the PVV, thinks that you should let jihadists go: go, cross the border, take Dutch nationality and never go back. But if you want to stop people like the Cabinet, unwise, but well, if you do that already and you catch them in the act with a trunk full of combat gear, then you can assume that they're going to jail for at least 30 years on water and bread? But of course not in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands we have judges who first say to Hakim and Mohamed, I believe: take off your anklet, because it is of course very difficult with sports and then we will release you, because all those farewell letters, those walkie-talkies, those ski masks and that combat clothing, which were of course meant for a skiing holiday in Syria. The Alexander Pechtold Prize for the most politically correct stupidity of 2015 has already been won by the court in Arnhem. This cabinet still refuses to acknowledge that Islam, that sick ideology of Allah and Muhammad, that ideology of hatred and violence, is the cause of all this terror. Anyone who is critical, who dares to be critical of Islam or the so-called prophet Muhammad, depicts him in a cartoon, mocks him or insults him, signs his death sentence. That these are not empty words, we recently saw in Paris. Research shows that no less than 100,000 Muslims in the Netherlands are willing to use violence from their faith. We already knew that 80% of Turkish young people think violence against Christians, Jews and non-believers is okay and that three quarters of jihadgoers are Moroccans. Meanwhile, according to the Spanish police, some 30,000 to 100,000 European Muslims have already joined the Islamic State. Thousands of them have already returned. They can enter the Netherlands as a major problem. And why? Because we refuse to guard our borders. Because the cabinet refuses to guard our borders. Because those external borders of Europe are also a big cheese of holes. Even a tenfold increase in the budget of the AIVD would not be enough to follow all these people as long as we keep our borders open. So what you need to do, Mr Rutte, is to step out of Schengen, control our borders again and stop jihadis from letting our country enter. As long as you don't want to do that, at least lock up those jihadists. Failing this through criminal law, enter administrative detention and lock them up through administrative law. Stop Islamization. Stop the immigration. Stop the sheltersunami. Don't let any more hate palaces build like in Gouda. Enough is enough. Do me a favor and send Minister Opstelten to retire. He's a nice man. Please give him a pleasant old age, something with a rod or with stamps. Make something up, but get out of the Department of Security and Justice. Mr. Prime Minister, get to work. De-islamise the Netherlands. Take the source of terror. Finally do what you have to do. Step up or step down, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u40	Madam President. The first victim of a disappearing rule of law is criminal law. The second victim is the language. Where the rule of law disappears, the empty words appear, the unrealistic language. That's a quote from the sociologist and lawyer Kees Schuyt. I had to think about this in the preparation of this debate: a debate on the available and necessary capacity in the security chain, but also a debate that, of course, also ultimately concerns our rule of law and whether we are doing everything we can to make our rule of law work properly and strengthen it where necessary and also to combat threats to that rule of law. So it is also about how we deal with fundamental rights in this country. It is a question of whether we are sufficiently aware that fundamental rights are universal and whether we are prepared to act accordingly. It's about how we deal with minorities in this country. Do they have a full place in our country? Do we stand up for them when that place is threatened, as we have recently seen especially around the Jewish community in our country? I am also thinking of the invigorating action at a mosque under construction in Leiden. It is also about the functioning of our judiciary, especially in a week like this, in which two men from Arnhem have been acquitted of preparing terrorist crimes. This ruling may raise questions, but above all it shows that our judiciary operates independently and checks whether the rules of our rule of law have been applied. In this situation, Articles 46 and 83 of the Code of Criminal Law were included. It was also a situation in which the Public Prosecutor's Office has the opportunity to appeal against such a ruling, which will happen now. I am happy to live in such a rule of law. Fundamental rights apply to everyone here. Minorities may have their place in our society. No punishment without proof. No sentence without a prior sentence to that effect. The government is bound by the law. It is this rule of law that distinguishes us from countries and movements that want to overthrow the rule of law because they do not stand for freedom and equality. However, the rule of law, our rule of law, must be resilient. My group is concerned about this resilience. That was also why we were co-signatory of the questions asked about the capacity of our safety chain. I honestly do not understand the attitude of the cabinet. Why such a massive defense against appeals from the Chamber, in a time of increasing threats, national and international, look around! Do you want to strengthen the security chain in our country? Why give the impression that everything is going crescendo, when everything is clear that something additional has to be done; even if it was only to be prepared in time for more returners from Syria or to meet the additional need for more security? There are gaps and they need to be filled. The time for studying and research is now a bit over. Action, please! With regard to the resilience of our rule of law, the Christian Union Group is also concerned about the transfer of the values of the rule of law in education. Is there sufficient safety in schools, teachers, to talk about this with their students, and also how in the past our rule of law has been handled? We hear too many signals from teachers who do not dare to do so or who do not have the support of parents or their management. I want to ask them not to stop. What does the Cabinet do to support them in their important work? Finally. We welcome the rule of law, but we will have to realise that maintaining that rule of law is a daily task. I ask the Cabinet to take full responsibility for this, not only with words, but above all with deeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr. Chairman. Terrorism and jihadism keep everyone busy. We're seeing the threat we're facing. The travelers to Syria, the returners, the attacks in Paris on Charlie Hebdo and at the Jewish supermarket, they all show that this threat is very real. What stands out is that here around the Binnenhof the love of security flourishes again. Of course that is quite right, but sometimes it is also a bit cheap. The important thing is not to slacken in quieter times. And that's where things go wrong. When things get better for the eye, love for security often ends soon. We just had an interrupting debate on the election programmes for the current period 2013-2017. It is striking that only a few years ago a lot of savings were made on the security domain. I think that the lesson should be for everyone not only to take action if the threat becomes stronger, for that must certainly be done, but also to ensure that the matter is in order when the threat is less visible to the eye. In the meantime, we know that world peace is not breaking out and that new problems may arise at any time, here or there. If we do not provide structural security reinforcement, you will receive yojo policies that will easily reduce costs, which in turn will lead to the destruction of knowledge, quality and materials. A sudden investment is nice, but it takes time. It also offers little guidance if it does not get a structural follow-up. The cabinet is now analysing to what extent the current level of threat can strengthen the use of services and other chain partners. That is a good thing, but I would add that this should have been done a long time ago as far as we are concerned. We therefore hope that it will produce results quickly. When will the Chamber receive the results and the corresponding cabinet position? How is sufficient investment in security guaranteed for the future? In the debate following the attack in Paris, the cabinet indicated that the resources available to the security services are sufficient at the moment, but that, of course, they are being monitored to see if there is anything else to be done. For me, however, the question remains whether more capacity can no longer be used, for example, to monitor extravagants and returners. Is it not possible to anticipate new threats or strengthen existing threats? So ask one is whether there should be more budget for the security services. Question two concerns how you use the existing budget, the existing resources. When it comes to the security services, it is quickly said that you can talk about this in public but limited. However, if you look at the public documents, such as last year's annual report, but also the annual plan for 2014, I notice that there is a comprehensive presentation of all priorities, operational accents or whatever it is called. There is therefore a great deal to be exchanged in public about the use of the existing budget and resources. When it comes to 2015 and all threats, I am very curious to see where the public version of the 2015 annual plan remains. That's not gonna happen. We have discussions on this and progress reports are being discussed in the Commission for the Intelligence and Security Services. I dare say that here, because the letter sent to the Chamber by the cabinet also states that progress reports are being discussed there. But what about that public plan? Where are the accents? Can't we get information on that much sooner? Is it true that the 2015 annual plan is still not available? I have one more comment on security. We also welcome the fact that certain special objects, such as the House of Representatives and the Jewish synagogues, are now no longer protected by police officers, but by the military police. That task is also part of the military police force. It's a good thing we don't let neighborhood agents do the security of special buildings. But doesn't that mean a hole in the military? After all, these people did different jobs? What about the security of military buildings and police stations? We hear sounds from the practice that there can also be added a little bit because the security there is not always optimal. Will the cabinet pay particular attention to, for example, barracks and police stations? Finally, I would ask you to speed up the tightening-up of the legislation announced, which was also mentioned in the letter we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr. Chairman. Let me say something: GroenLinks is very much in favour of the government's response to the questions raised by my group. It is good that the cabinet does not immediately opt for more money, but first analyses any bottlenecks in the security chain. Although it is tempting to respond to unrest, fear and threat of terror with more money for the security services, that is not necessarily the right way forward. My group agrees with the cabinet on this. But that doesn't mean we don't have any questions. The first concerns the way in which services use their always scarce resources, by definition. The reflex of wanting to regulate more and more listening powers not only threatens the privacy of citizens who are far from radicalising, but it is also ineffective in increasing security. We're looking for a needle in a haystack, but we're making the haystack bigger. How much does it cost to collect cable-bound data? What are we gonna do with all that extra data collected? Is there a capacity for careful analysis? What happens to the excess, useless data? Are they shared with other security forces? This proposed amendment to the law raises these and these kinds of questions with my group. It seems to me that we need to focus more on risk cases. I guess that's gonna be tough. Surely it should not be possible for anyone who was arrested in the Schilderswijk this summer as the visible foreman of one of the most radical jihadist movements in the Netherlands to talk about it: the Schilderswijk is a caliphate which appears six months later in Fallujah as a suicide terrorist. Does the Minister agree with me? In this context, I have another question. What about the estimated 35 jihadists who have returned to the Netherlands? Is there sufficient capacity to follow or guide them, depending on what we suspect are their intentions? I still find it extremely unclear what the cabinet wants with returners. Also in the answer to our parliamentary questions, in the letter of 5 February, the cabinet has several thoughts. Travellers are arrested and prosecuted on return if possible, as the letter states. The cabinet also wants to be able to impose a reporting obligation and to be able to terminate benefits. The possibilities to withdraw from the Netherlands are also extended. Mind you, we're talking about 35 returns. It seems natural to me that someone who has committed crimes should be arrested and prosecuted. But what's the point of stopping benefits? What does it mean that someone loses their Dutchmanship? I've asked this before. Does this happen after he has been arrested and tried or does this happen before he has returned to the Netherlands? In my group's view, there are serious objections to this latter case. It prevents someone from being apprehended and thereby increases the risk of attacks elsewhere. The question of targeting scarce resources also includes the relationship between prevention on the one hand and control and prosecution on the other. Last week I walked a day with neighborhood agents in the Schilderswijk. By being on the street all day and drinking liters of tea, they know what's going on. They know more than anyone how important it is that there are organisations, initiatives and physical places in the neighbourhood where people with the most diverse cultural and religious backgrounds can talk to each other. That is the way to pick up the signs of radicalisation as early as possible. Schools play a key role in this. Colleagues have also talked about it. Is it true, as I ask the cabinet, that, on average, there is less room in schools for precisely those subjects that promote the critical thinking of students and the conversation between students, such as social studies, philosophy and philosophy? How does this relate to number 24 of the action plan: support for educational institutions in shaping their citizenship education? Finally. During the debate on the attacks in Paris, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment promised me that I would check whether there is sufficient expertise and capacity at local authorities in the first line to prevent radicalisation. I am very curious about the outcome of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. Since the summer we have talked twice before about extremist threats in our country and the way in which this cabinet fights them. It is then a lot and above all about the approach taken by the judiciary, the police and the security services. In fact, the questions raised by the members of the group who gave rise to this debate were entirely concerned with this issue. Understandably, because we all want a boy with a twisted world view and violent ideas to end up in the hands of justice before it goes wrong. But that's where it has to end. It shouldn't start there. It's starting somewhere else. It starts a lot sooner. It starts on the street. It starts in the living room. It starts behind the computer with YouTube and Facebook. It happens in school. After the attacks in Paris, my colleague Marcouch and I spoke with social lecturers about what they are experiencing in class and school, about the impact Paris had on young people. It was instructive to listen to them, because there the real battle is fought at school. The fight against polarisation, against radicalisation, against mutual misunderstanding. The struggle for nuance, for doubt, for the willingness to test your ideas and to review them with new insights. Our teachers are the front soldiers in that battle. And they don't have it easy. From all sides the polarization is blown. Through the events in the world, through the hate images, through the ISIS propaganda on the Internet and sometimes also through the texts here in Parliament. Our teachers must counter this. And they deserve all the support. I realize that in previous discussions we had the Minister of Integration and the Minister of Foreign Affairs here, but we should actually have the Minister of Education in these debates. Our teachers need strengthening in this respect, more knowledge about how to deal with radicalisation, more support from the school leadership or the public authorities when they report that things are not going well in their classrooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u44	This debate has been requested by seven group chairmen, Mr Samsom, and that is his right to do so because there are serious concerns about the capacity of the security-related services such as the AIVD, the STPD, the Public Prosecutor and the NFI. Does the fact that Mr Samsom chooses a completely different subject mean that he believes that these services are in order and adequately funded?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u45	The fact that I begin with a completely different subject, and I have answered Mr Buma's question immediately after I have got to that other piece, says something about the balance that the Labour Party wants in dealing with radicalisation and extremism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u46	I do not understand at all why this should not go hand in hand with the capacity of our security services, but then I await Mr Samsom's speech on the subject on which the debate has been requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u48	It appeals to me if Mr Samsom also points out that something needs to be done in education. However, I am surprised that he is now presenting a motion in the Chamber yesterday which states that it is unacceptable, for example, that the Holocaust should not be discussed in education and the way in which our rule of law has been established because teachers no longer dare to do so, and that the government is asking the government to help with education. Why, then, did Mr Samsom vote against it if it is rightly so high with him, because it is indeed not acceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u49	It's high, too. I think we're in agreement. The conversation that Mr Marcouch and I had, among other things, we had with a teacher who was afraid to speak in class for her Jewish background. That is unacceptable and something must be done about it. Then you have to forgive me for not knowing exactly which motion was tabled with which operative part and which consideration of which debate. In any case, I will find out for you and will provide you with a second answer on why we did not vote for it yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u50	That motion wasn't ours, it was the PVV...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u51	Well, that explains a lot. I'll read it with attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u52	... but this motion was entirely in place because it is indeed not acceptable. Unfortunately, it happens in the Netherlands, but we notice that it happens much more and is really difficult to discuss certain topics on the rocks and in secondary education. Do you agree with me that we should call on the Cabinet to identify the bottlenecks there? The cabinet must come up with plans as soon as possible to support them doing so. It's so incredibly important that it happens right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr Slob is now putting his question in a different way, but I think it is the same question I had when I said that the teachers who report that it is not going well in their classroom deserve our support and that of the public authorities. If they are able to fight for nuance, for doubt and for questioning their own ideas, because that is what it is about, not being able to successfully conduct in their classroom, then they deserve that support. What about all these security services: the police, the military police and the justice system? They're crucial. No matter how good our education is and how resilient the parents are, there will always be threats from crazy jihadists and other crazy people. They must fall into the hands of our security device before it goes wrong. That is why the Labour Party has already indicated in previous debates that it gives the Cabinet all the space it needs to move priorities and to fill any shortfalls. In addition, I would guard against the reflex of the armchair general. We are not going to prescribe exactly what the security guard should wear to armament, or exactly what driving times are needed. That's up to experts and professionals, not politicians. As representatives of the people, we decide the area and we outline the conditions. We have outlined this space and framework conditions before, and I repeat them here. In these circumstances, the Labour Party gives this cabinet every opportunity to do what is necessary. Should the security experts now or later consider that resources should be shifted or that resources should be added, we expect the cabinet to do so and to answer for it here. In that order. The framework conditions set by the Labour Party to the Dutch approach to terrorism are that the approach remains balanced. The balance between repression and prevention set out in the Action Programme Integral Approach Jihadism of August should be maintained, including in the case of new measures. I am well aware that all of this sounds much less tough than the plea for more surveillance, more espionage and more weapons, but it is just as necessary. Our support for the brave Marechaussees who guard our security outside and elsewhere, goes hand in hand with our support for the brave teachers who teach our children the confidence and nuance needed to keep our society safe and connected. Both contribute, each in a very different way, to our security and both must be supported by this Parliament and by our government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr Samsom has now come to the heart of the debate. His argument is that when the services involved state that it needs to be more, the cabinet must take care of it. I'll share that. The question is how they can motivate that. Again, I speak to these people too, and they all say: please, keep it confidential because my position makes me not allowed to say it out loud. That's what I keep to myself as a Member of Parliament. Can you help these people do their story to us so that that foundation can be given?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u55	I'm obviously interested in their story. I hear them too, but I always hear them with that addition that you're adding to it now. I don't have to dwell on that here. I want the cabinet to get those signals. In the letter, the cabinet indicated that it not only receives these signals passively, but that it has now actively asked for them. The cabinet has actively asked the security services and all parts of the security chain to state whether it is enough, and if not, where it can be done better. I've also read that the cabinet will be joining us soon. This has taken the space we are sketching out by the cabinet and we will see where that leads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u56	I am very keen to hear in the course of the cabinet debate when we can have the support of these people and when we can get the answer from the cabinet. Those people say it to me, but they also say: we say it to the cabinet but we hear the cabinet say something else. There is a lot of light between what we hear internally and what the cabinet says out loud. If we can put that together, we'll be a long way away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u57	The suggestions made by Mr Buma about these talks are entirely for him. I told you about it here: I also speak with teachers. They have their concerns and do not always feel equally supportive. We ask questions about this if it is necessary, but I do not immediately ask for 500 million for education to solve it now. The same applies to the police and the military. Of course, people have their concerns about whether it will be enough later and whether we have enough capacity and space at the moment. Whether that should translate into real action. More people on the doorstep of buildings is also a breach of our sense of security and privacy.I really leave it to the experts and to the cabinet. The cabinet is accountable here. I would stress that this is done in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u58	Let me begin by saying that I fully agree with the whole prevention story. To avoid something is better than to prevent anything. But the debate is, of course, about whether all services have sufficient resources and space to do their job. I know that Mr Samsom is often looking for the people in the field to see what's going on with those stories. He'll have to be told, like us, by all those cops that they're going to die in the line of duty. He's got to be in the CID's office. They don't belong to all those piles. I quote from the research we have done in recent weeks: arms dealers have been around for seven years without being arrested and major projects against organised crime have to be abandoned because there is no time for it. It's a laundry list of these things. Mr Samsom knows him, too. Is it not our job as a representative of the people not to wait for the cabinet but to take action when we hear and see that it is not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u59	It is our job as a representative of the people to make a choice in scarce times. All times are scarce, economists always say, but these are specific. There are shortages. The SP also had to cut back on its election programme. For example, she did that for 1.5 billion dollars in Defense. I'm assuming there was a part of that for the marshalssee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u60	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u61	Then it happens to have passed the Marechaussee exactly, but on the security chain, the SP has made substantial cuts, just like other parties. She did this even more than this cabinet intended; part of it has now been reversed. Everyone in this Chamber makes choices in which you do and do not invest. The Labour Party is not known as the party that invests most in the police or the army. We are known as a party that wants to invest extra in, for example, healthcare, education and social security. Those are the choices we make as a party. That's what I stand for when policemen say to me, "Oh, it's gotten to be a lot, it's hard work and I don't know if I can handle it all. We'll take those concerns with us. Our spokesperson, the police, is handing them over as well. This will ensure that we, with four other parties in the Chamber, have supported the additional investments in security in recent years, because we also see the need to do so. But it always keeps making choices. Mr Roemer says: I am speaking to a police officer who says it is very difficult. I think we all have that experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u62	It's getting closer now. That's fair. No additional investments will be made in 2015. There are still hard cuts, on the police, AIVD, the Dutch Forensic Institute: more than 325 million go from these services this year. Yeah, those are political choices. If Mr Samsom says: I choose and stand for it, that is his right. But then he's just gonna have to say that honestly. He shouldn't say: I'm waiting for the cabinet to come up with stories about whether it's necessary. We believe in the Chamber from left to right that national security should be above the parties. We believe that it is now on the agenda, all of us stand out and say: let's look together at how we can get things in order. Mr Samsom may put that hand away, but be honest about it. If he insists that the police should not get extra, but less, 2.000 agents less, and if he thinks that the Public Prosecutor should get a cut, these are political choices. But be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Roemer says that we are making additional savings on the General Intelligence and Security Service in 2015. But there is not a year in history in which the security services as a whole received as much money as in 2015; 212 million to be precise. That's more than ever. If Mr Roemer wants to tell me that cuts are being made, I say: have the right figures ready to show me the right facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u64	There have been cuts in the AIVD, but that still leaves 11 million in cuts. Those are the right figures for this year. The fact that more money has been added in the past because there was more work is true, but that austerity is true. I understand why Mr Samsom does not refer to the other 325 million cut: these are hard figures and he finds that annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u65	You mentioned the cuts on the AIVD. Again, there's more money going to the AIVD than ever before. That 9 million has been cut back on the device and has therefore not been at the expense of human power. In fact, that money has been invested in more people at the AIVD. That was a cut in the budget, because it was to the benefit of safety!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u66	He's not going into the 325 million again, Mr. Chairman. Forget it, it's obvious!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr Samsom refers to talks he had in schools. He's actually saying that these teachers are on the front line like our people from the security and intelligence services. I agree with him, but what conclusion does he draw from that? I have also had such conversations, and I concluded from this that the support of the government, the municipalities and the Empire, of these people, is far from sufficient. Is that his conclusion, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u69	That's one of the many conclusions you can draw. It is really only one conclusion, because the most important conclusion I drew from my conversation is that the school leadership of these big rocks in Rotterdam and the other big cities of this country is absent when it comes to the direct support of the teachers in front of the classroom. There were also school leaders present at my conversation, coincidentally or not, and they were able to indicate exactly where the shoe is wringing. It wrings when the board of a school says to a teacher: well, don't talk about that Jewish background of yours, because that might bring confrontations. That shoe also wrings when the school board sends an e-mail to teachers with the announcement: take the conspiracy theory away from the class, because that disturbs the class. That is a totally wrong approach! The solution lies not only with more money and better government support. It could be there, of course, but the solution must really be found in the schools themselves. I am therefore pleased that we are now making a move towards smaller roc's and smaller schools, because the management of smaller schools can better sense what is actually happening in the classroom. That way you can really take steps forward, because that way you tackle the real causes of extremism and radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u70	It's hardly ever one thing. Mr Samsom is right, of course, but on the other hand there are not so many things on which national politics can exercise influence and take action. Of course, it's not just about money, but one of the things we could do, when we're going to go through the safety chain, is to check the other chains. In response to written questions, the cabinet has said that it is going to monitor the security chain and I can imagine that we will also check with the other chains whether it is necessary to invest additional central government funds in it. Would Mr Samsom wish to make a strong commitment to this in the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u71	That seems to me to be a good suggestion in itself, but I still have to chew on it. The PvdA has asked questions about the review of the Integral Approach Jihadism Action Plan of August, and it should fit well. In fact, that action plan contains a whole section which focuses on education. In this context, like Mr Van Ojik, I would like to hear exactly what we are going to do with the examples I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months, it has been seen more often that the time of self-evident security and thus freedom is over. The threat is great and the threat is real. Let us also be honest: we cannot pacify that. That means we have to arm ourselves against it and we have to secure ourselves. At the same time, we must try to remove the breeding ground for extremism and terrorism. That requires the security device to be in order. Of course money plays a very important role in this, because you can have very nice plans and intentions, but without sufficient resources you will never get anywhere. As you know, the VVD security is one of the core tasks of the government. In this sense, the costs are only a derivative. When you put security on the second plan, you lose all those other achievements, such as freedom, but also good care and good education. Without the basic condition of security, there is no free society. We have always said in recent years that it is our duty to make money available for security if necessary. For this reason, the proposed cuts in the coalition agreement have also largely been reversed with our support as this need increased. During the debate on 14 January, the Prime Minister also made it quite clear that more will be delivered if necessary. That's what the letter said. We are not of the principle that it will become safer by itself if you spend more money on security. No, leading must be that the extra money actually contributes to our security. Unfortunately, security is not for sale and a larger budget, as I said, does not automatically mean that it will be safer. Therefore, from spring 2013, when the threat picture went up, the VVD looked wider than just money. We have supported and proposed measures to enable our security apparatus to operate effectively. You can still employ so many agents, but if they're not properly armed, security is failing. That is why we have advocated, for example, the use of military forces for the protection of objects. We are pleased that this step was taken in the cabinet's letter. You can take as many passports as you want, but as long as people can still go out with an ID card, there's still a way out. That is why we also support the law that makes it possible to take ID cards. You can still stand for your freedom and values, but as long as you don't draw a clear line against people who threaten our freedom and values, you don't make a fist. That is why we have proposed to take away jihadists from the Netherlands. You can change the Dutch law now, but if you do not get hold of the current jihadists, the people who are now fighting against our values in Syria, you need transitional rights. That is why we have proposed this, and we are pleased that we are going to act on it. You can double the budget for the intelligence services, but if you don't intensify or even want to stop working with allies and partners, you close your eyes to crucial information and stand alone. That is why we support better cooperation between services at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr Zijlstra says he wants more cooperation at international level. I don't think he knows, but his spokesperson police suggested this morning to abolish police liaisons abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u74	My spokesperson, the police, is now looking with great surprise, as if she did not recognize herself in Mr Buma's words. Luckily, I don't recognize myself in that either. It has indicated that it is wise to look very widely at the tasks of the police. What are the central tasks of the police, what do the police do, and what are other services supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u75	So the liaison function with the police remains as it is, because it's a core task?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'll be honest, I haven't been through this morning's discussion. There's a whole AO dedicated to it. If you don't mind, I'm not going to discuss that point with you. That is what happened this morning, and that is what we are not going to do any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u77	I'm afraid I will, because you have a whole story about the reprioritisation of the police. We're beginning to know that. You are saying, as always, on that side, whether it comes from the VVD or from the cabinet, but it does not come from where it comes from. It has been said this morning: the liaison functions are not a police priority and can also be carried out by others. Then say that honestly and don't deny it again! You wanted to get rid of it, but this afternoon it's a little less convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u78	No, this morning the discussion was about something else, namely the core tasks of the police. If you have certain priorities, certain things are not done. That's part of it. I'll repeat that to you. Let that be clear. Our spokesperson has given an example of the fact that the police are currently required to deliver subpoenas to people who have to appear before the courts. Now, as far as I'm concerned, the police aren't couriers. Such things can be done by others. What I'm talking about requires better listening. I am talking about cooperation between international security services. So it's about the AIVD, the STUDY and their partners. I don't know how you want to mix the liaison function of the police with what I'm saying here. I really don't understand you at all. We want to keep it up. I have not seen any proposal in this direction from either the cabinet or the VVD. So you're here putting apples and pears next to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr Buma wishes to clarify himself. I give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mr Zijlstra is asking for it. So I'm happy to do that. Of course, the police liaison has an extremely important function. I checked with my spokesperson, who is. Two were excluded from this battlefield: Bucharest and Rome. Of course, it does not make sense to have only AIVD cooperation, but I would just point out that when you talk about international cooperation, people belong to it. Just tell me honestly that you don't have the money for it, that you don't find it interesting enough or do anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u81	My spokesperson's in the room, too. He says very clearly, just like he did this morning, that that is not the case. You're trying to paint a picture of something that wasn't there. That's a nice try, but that's not how we work here. The police are a security service, so are the intelligence services. They're supposed to be working well with each other. This morning's speech was on very different issues. Neither of us were there, so I suggest that we put our spokesmen in a loft in a moment to see if they are in secret agreement. The budgets of the AIVD and the STUDY can be tripled, doubled or increased tenfold, but if you let them do their work blindfolded and declare 90% of the communication taboo, there is no extra budget. That is why we support with all guarantees, limitations and what is needed for supervision and for our privacy an extension of the powers to targeted interception on the cable. You can increase the budget of the AIVD and the STUDY, you can ask for more budget, but if Dutch jihad travellers do not want to take up nationality, the Netherlands gets back its jihad travellers. Then we need more capacity to keep an eye on them. We therefore support the measure to abolish nationality. The VVD takes responsibility and therefore supports this measure, just as it supports measures relating to our external security, about Defence. The threat we are now discussing is domestic, but also a threat from Ukraine and Russia's actions there take the VVD seriously. That is why it has previously supported the Van der Staaij motion. The VVD keeps the cabinet informed that additional funds will be made available if necessary. Security is a central task of the government. The VVD will always stand for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr. Chairman. The American former President Ronald Reagan said it very nicely: Western intelligence services are the eyes and ears of the free world. This was then the case in the Cold War against communism, and this is now the case in the fight against jihadism. Much earlier, my group said that the cuts in the intelligence services are totally irresponsible. They lead to an exodus of valuable employees that we desperately need right now. Anyone with a little sense knows that the intelligence services need to get a lot more money structuralally. While the chance of an attack in the Netherlands has never been so great, the cabinet is only investigating the financial resources. Our entire safety chain is under immense pressure. The savings on the police continue despite the threat of terror. Cops need to do more with less money by now. Mayors and police are in vain the alarm clock with the Minister of Security and Justice. A minister who is no longer prepared for his very important task, a minister who confuses the ICAO and the IKEA and "wants to keep his feet on the wrist" should go home. Lack of manpower also plays in the military. In order to complete the new security task, the cabinet reduces border surveillance capacity. The gate thus continues to open to illegals, returning jihadists and kalashnikovs. There has to be a lot more capacity soon. We are in favour of a delta plan for our national security. Turn back all cuts and draw billions to strengthen our police, military, military and intelligence services. Re-appoint the fight against arms trafficking as a national priority and identify those who threaten national security, if necessary through administrative detention. Last month 135 MPs voted against our motion to double the budget for the intelligence services. We hope that we will have more support today. The Minister of Security and Justice wishes us power, power, power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u83	This brings to an end the first term of office. The cabinet has indicated that it takes twenty minutes to prepare for an answer. I shall suspend the sitting until 5.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u84	Madam President. I would like to begin with a few general introductory remarks. First of all, let me thank the chairmen of the political groups for their first contribution. I feel and feel the great importance of this debate when it comes to all this input, of both the coalition and the opposition. Indeed, we have much to defend each other; it has been said by many. There is a great deal at stake: our freedom, our democracy, our open way of living together. These achievements cannot and cannot be put under pressure by the threat of terror. These are tough words, but that is really what we are talking about in these debates, both this afternoon and a few weeks ago when we had the debate shortly after the terrible attacks in Paris. Let me say straight away that the great concerns that exist here in the Chamber about possible terrorist attacks in our country are felt exactly the same by the cabinet. I want to cherish that unity in order to keep the Netherlands safe and guard our freedom. We are pulling on the same side of the rope in that respect. All the questions and comments of the Chamber in the first term underline the responsibility and urgency that the Cabinet and the Chamber feel in this regard. We really must continue to do everything we can to prevent an attack and to reduce the threat in our country. That is our commitment, that is the joint starting point for this debate. Security is a basic requirement of people and is at the same time a core task of the government. Mr. Chairman. If you will allow me, I would like to continue with my introductory text, unless you allow an interruption. I shall now come to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u85	Could you also put that very short question at the end of the introduction, Mr Roemer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u86	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u87	I'll give you the opportunity now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u88	I understand that the Prime Minister would like to finish his introduction, but my question is about the content of the debate. So far, I share what the Prime Minister says. This debate is about a common interest, and I also said it above the parties in my speech, but the Prime Minister makes it merely the fight against terrorism and jihadism. That's what he did in the reply in the letter. I would ask him, however, that was also the intention of several group chairmen to broaden the spectrum of the security chain, because that was what many of our questions were about, and it was not to be restricted to jihadism and terrorism alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u89	For the sake of clarity, I fully agree with Mr Roemer. That will also be apparent from my reply. The reality is that what happened in Brussels, Paris and Verviers can indeed happen in the Netherlands tomorrow. This reality obliges us to review every day whether the measures we take are adequate, including whether our security services and all other partners, including the police, have sufficient resources and opportunities to do their job. This is a permanent process and also a permanent balance between security, privacy and many other interests that have been and are being raised here in the Chamber in the debate. Terror threat isn't a simple thing. It is, by definition, a complex and, in its nature, extremely erratic subject. That too is the reality. This also includes the illusion that it is an illusion to think that no one here is saying that, but I would say it once and for all, in order to be sure that protection against terrorists would be 100% for sale. Unfortunately, that's an illusion. In addition, measures are important to ensure that freedom, which we want to protect with each other, is not compromised by measures that go beyond their objectives and that at the same time do not make us safer. In short, we must do what can be done to preserve our security, to preserve our freedom and to guard this security and freedom. That's what the Cabinet is committed to. Last week's letter deals extensively with all kinds of things that have been done and are being done to prevent attacks and reduce the threat. That is a lot, because, as you know, the NCTV, the terrorist coordinator, is using the threat level "essentially." And unfortunately, that has been since 2013. This means that all the services and organisations involved have been very alert for too long, unfortunately. On top of that, last August the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme came. In doing so, we are opposed to targeted radicalisation. Those are the points that Pechtold and Samsom made in the debate, including the whole prevention side. The program includes that side with youth care and probation, but also the hard side such as the withdrawal of the Dutch identity of jihadgoers for example. At the same time, we see that much has also been done at European level. I had a debate today on tomorrow's European Council. There, for example, we talked about Schengen border controls and the whole issue of the Passenger Name Record. I said a few weeks ago that our conclusion is that at the moment all the services and organisations involved are able to do what they have to do. That is a snapshot, I say to all those who are concerned. However, we keep a finger on the wrist permanently. The cabinet has always done so, and that is why we are accelerating all kinds of proposals in the action plan. Of course, this is done with the care that is needed. We will continue to analyse whether there are bottlenecks throughout the whole chain. I have also said before that there will be money, if there are any bottlenecks that need to be addressed. There's no doubt about that. We have now also specifically asked the services if there is enough capacity. There's plenty, with all the prioritization that goes with it, to do what needs to be done. However, we see that the numbers are large and that the flow of the threat has been continuing for some time. At the moment, everything indicates that it will continue for some time to come. What impact does this have on the medium- and long-term commitment needed by the military, police and security services, but also on institutions from the point of view of prevention, such as youth care? That analysis will be available very soon, so that the cabinet can consider it. Of course, the cabinet will inform the Chamber of the conclusions and, if necessary, make additional money available. That is not a matter of months: it will take place in the coming weeks. I told you, it's not possible to buy 100% security. It is also true, however, that money should never really be a problem on these issues. Security is a basic need of people and a core task of the government. That is what I stand for, that is what the cabinet stands for, and that is what I feel in all the Chamber's contributions. This was introductory, I come to a number of specific questions, but I already see MPs who want to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u90	The introduction has raised many questions. We'll start with Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u91	I shall confine myself to the introduction. The specific answer will come in a moment, and I will come back to that later. The Prime Minister says he only once asked all the services to indicate the situation. Two weeks ago, however, he said very firmly that there was no need for money, because all the services were in order and everyone could carry out their duties. Why this radical change, which caused him to doubt and suddenly the services to ask what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u92	It's totally in line with what I said back then. I also said that at that time there was enough money and resources and a good legal framework to do what had to be done. We constantly check whether it is necessary to do more, given the developments of numbers and the lead time. We have now explicitly asked all the services involved to map this out for us. That's a continuous process. It has led in the past to the Integrated Approach to Jihadism Action Programme and to additional resources for, for example, the AIVD. If necessary, that will be the case again. It's a continuous process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u93	I did not ask for the floor at the Prime Minister's first introduction. That was very conscious, because even now I get the answer that it is all very focused on combating jihadism alone. All services are fully prepared to address terror threats and jihadism. The Prime Minister is convinced that this is enough. The main point of the debate is what gaps this commitment leaves behind. I was just looking down from my study and I saw five vans and a jeep from the Marechaussee. They were somewhere else last week. Where were they taken from? It's just an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u94	We are talking about the effects of the prioritization that is needed, that is our business. That is what Mr Roemer does in his party, as Prime Minister, that is what everyone in the Netherlands is doing. You always have to prioritize and always make choices in the resources that exist. Next comes the relevant question, which is twofold. What are the effects of medium- and long-term choices, given the development of a certain trend, in this case jihadism and terrorism? At the same time, you ask yourself what it means in terms of long-term less paying attention to certain things, when you set priorities. I cannot speak in public about the exact nature of these matters, where we set these priorities or whether they are in the services or in the military. But, of course, choices are made there. So you have, also as a cabinet, to constantly ascertain the effects of those choices, even in the medium and long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u95	Of course, you can say something about that in public, because we also say publicly that the Marechaussee is now going to secure certain buildings. So it's possible. It is also, of course, about this. The core is next. We've been investigating detectives ourselves. That is what we are told of the fact that for years we have been dealing with sex cases, that arms dealers are not being arrested for seven years because there is no capacity and that people are being taken away from business because they have to go after jihadists, no matter how important that is. This was constantly pushed away by the Prime Minister in the first debate two weeks ago. In the letters answering the questions of the seven opposition leaders, it was moved away. And now he's doing it again. You can say that you can't talk about it and that prioritization is a different choice. Be honest, be clear about that, because the safety chain is not in order. Go investigate them and let us work together to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr Roemer and I agree on the following. In my case, as Prime Minister and in the case of Mr Opstelten as Minister for Security and Justice, everyone, including Members of Parliament and the group chairmen, who feel very responsible for this, must constantly ask themselves what the effects of prioritisation are. I must point out to Mr Roemer that driving is always a matter of priority. That's inevitable. You're always prioritizing. You're always making choices. Then you have to ask yourself whether those choices are justified. Do they lead you to do the necessary things in the shorter term and in the foreseeable future? The answer of this cabinet to that crucial question about the full breadth of the security domain is yes. Then you have to ask yourself, given the fact that you have to make choices against the background of certain developments, what those choices mean in the medium and longer term. That is exactly what we are constantly doing and what we have now explicitly asked of all the organisations involved. We will report to the Chamber on this shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u97	The Prime Minister reiterates that capacity is in order at the moment. He did so in the previous debate and in the letter. That's good to hear. He's responsible for that. He's pointing that in our direction. But we in the Chamber have indicated on several occasions that we are looking further ahead. We are seeing developments in the world. We also see the threat of even more recurring jihad fighters. If you're not going to switch until it comes at you, you're too late. You have to make sure you have people who are fully prepared to carry out those tasks. In order to be prepared for perhaps even greater pressure in the coming period, the cabinet must act now and ensure that there is a reinforcement in that security chain?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u98	I fully agree with the first half of Mr Slob's speech. You have to make sure that not only today but also in the immediate future there is sufficient capacity. That's what the Cabinet does. The answer to that is yes. Then you have to ask yourself the question, given that numbers and lead time are going through a certain development, which means for the priorities you have set and the fact that you can then spend a longer time paying less attention to certain issues. And prioritizing is the normal administrative work. That's inevitable. That's exactly what the cabinet does permanently. That is why we brought out the jihadism action plan last summer. We saw that the existing administrative and legal frameworks needed further strengthening. That is why all this legislation is now in preparation. The first law, which deals with the taking away of the Netherlands in the event of an irrevocable conviction, is now in the Chamber. The report was submitted here on 29 January and it was notified for plenary. The same applies to the six other legislative proposals that are still pending. They'll all be arriving in the Chamber for the next few months. This was necessary because we found during the summer that, given the fact that we have sufficient resources, given the development of this terrible phenomenon, it was necessary to further strengthen the legal framework. That's exactly what a cabinet should do. I fully agree with Mr Slob. However, I do not agree with the suggestion put forward in the second half of his question that the cabinet would not do so. My point is that we do, exactly as we should be. This also includes the fact that we are once again asking the services and the other organisations about capacity development in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u99	That's the last thing that freaks me out. The cabinet is now going to ask the services: "Would you like to map out what is needed? We will then take this with us in a few weeks' time to perhaps take additional measures." In November, however, the Chamber adopted motions for resolutions by a majority, i.e. the Segers motion and the Van der Staaij motion in which the Cabinet is asked to carry out these investigations. November, December and January are now over; we are now in February and it will be March. We will then be five months further, in a world so hectic and so much coming towards us. That's gonna take a lot more speed, isn't it? Shouldn't the cabinet have done that by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u100	Once again, I agree with Mr Slob's question, except for the use of the word 'now'. That's a crucial word. We're not doing this right now. My point was to make it clear to the Chamber that the cabinet is constantly wondering whether the choices we make in the short term do not have any undesirable effects in the medium and longer term. We are therefore in constant contact with these organisations. We have written to the Chamber that we have once again asked the services to provide us with an analysis of the situation, as we have previously, on the basis of similar analyses, produced the Integrated Approach Jihadism Action Programme and, as we have previously, in consultation with the Chamber, pushed up the budgets of the AIVD at various times, because we found together that risks were being taken for the longer term. That's exactly how we're supposed to do it. On the contrary, I am glad that we agree on this. I feel that there is no contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u101	In any case, I feel that time is slipping and that we do not yet see so much of additional measures on the further strengthening of the safety chain in the Netherlands. We do hear about priorities to be set and priorities to be applied, but it will have to come from the length or width. If we do not put more money in it, there will be holes in other places, I say to Mr Roemer. In these places things remain that we also consider important. I'll give the Prime Minister a look at what's going on in the Chamber. Left-to-right parties are now telling the cabinet that the security chain needs to be strengthened and that more money needs to be made available. I can't remember, in all these years that I've been a Member of Parliament, that this has ever happened so widely. That is why we say to the cabinet: take that opportunity, at a time when it demands that it be done. I hope the cabinet doesn't wait longer than it has to. I would like to hear what the deadline is for the aforementioned investigations, because I do not feel like standing here again in three or four weeks and hearing that the investigation is still ongoing, while we are now weeks away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u102	I would like to put it very positively. At the moment I do not feel the incentive to do more; I have felt this incentive for as long as I have this job and as long as we are discussing security on many occasions, unfortunately in the last few years the emphasis has been increasing on jihadism and terrorism. There is broad support in the Chamber that money should not be a problem and that it should be done if analyses show that money is needed. That's what happened. The Chamber and the Cabinet have jointly allocated extra money, for example for the security service. At the beginning of September, we discussed together the Integrated Approach to Jihadism, in order to extend the administrative framework. In the same vein, we are constantly discussing their funding with services and organisations. This also includes the fact that we have again asked an explicit research question and that we are reporting on it. That's a continuous process. I do not see any new development in this; on the contrary, I see a very positive constant trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u103	I think it is important that the question of capacity be answered in the study mentioned by the Prime Minister. However, I do not see how this research takes shape. Previously, I told colleagues that we are speaking to people and that their stories are clear. An investigation suggests that something is objectively investigated, but ultimately it remains a choice of the cabinet to do something or not. What else does the Cabinet need that the Chamber already knows in order to be able to decide? What does such an investigation look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u104	We don't do major scientific research. We have a constant dialogue with our services and organisations on the short-, medium- and longer-term effects of measures. This resulted in additional funding for the AIVD and from this also came the Integrated Approach Jihadism Action Programme. Now we have again explicitly asked about these effects. We have not asked for a major scientific study. We have asked: what are the assessments that live widely on the development of this terrible phenomenon in terms of humanization and funding of the various organisations? It is a matter of weeks and weeks of decisions to be taken. If it is the case that these decisions include the provision of additional funds, then that is what we are doing. We will report to the Chamber on this, as we do in all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u105	Let me give you one example. In the case of the NFI, I believe that 550 million will go to 77 million. Then you can do two things. Then you can see that you are doing less, but you can also, as the NFI says internally, indicate: that is not possible. I am so afraid that there will be another official report, which says: you have decided, so it has to be done. This while we see around us that it makes a choice with huge consequences. How do we get the choice that has to be made later, right on the table? I'm so afraid of a letter from the cabinet that says, "We've talked to everyone, it's a bit of a squeeze, but we're moving on." The facts are different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u106	We will report to you as best we can. However, I would also warn against the following. Mr Buma knows, as we all do, that if we ask an organization how it stands, it is very likely that it will say: well, it pinches; it pinches in terms of numbers and it pinches in terms of budget. If you ask that open question, you'll always get this answer. That is not surprising either, because organisations always have the ambition to do more than they do at the time. In the context of the NFI, it is very important that its core production is maintained in full. We're gonna make sure of that, too. Efficiency can be increased by improving business operations. Also the external hire goes down, work processes are automated, new techniques are used and doubles with the police are removed. In this way we realize the mission, as there are broad, all over the government, targets running. If you ask organizations what they need, you also need to enter into dialogue. Of course, the first reaction is that there are bottlenecks in money and people, but then you go deeper and deeper. I realise that Mr Buma is doing the same, but let us be careful not to be the voice of the first reactions we hear from the organisations. We must always realise that, of course, there is a normal administrative process going backwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u107	I understand the dilemma; I'm not going to be difficult about that at all. However, the letter referred to by the Prime Minister is exactly the information that we receive in the first instance. It's only when you ask questions that it turns out it's a lot of tasks. For example, doubles are removed, things aren't done anymore, longer waiting times are created and it's said: if you don't want to ask that question anymore, then we don't have to answer it? All that stuff is behind it. It is important that the cabinet does not come to the Chamber with these official standard responses, but with the reality behind it, because it is so much worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u108	Sure, I realize that. That is why there is also normal traffic between Chamber and Cabinet, for example in the case of cuts, also on the NFI. Questions are asked about this, to which the cabinet responds. Members of Parliament often also have their own sources of information. That is right; that is how we all do our job. So you try to make good decision-making in that robust dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u109	New to me in the Prime Minister's introduction is that the cabinet not only has the security chain and intelligence services analyse where possible future bottlenecks exist, but that it will also do so on the preventive side. That's what the Prime Minister said very explicitly. In fact, I think he mentioned youth care in that context. As far as I can tell, there is nothing about this in the letter of 5 February. It seems to me to be a very good idea, but perhaps the Prime Minister could say a little more about it. Is it true that educational institutions, youth care institutions, community center work and so on have been asked to carry out such an analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u110	If you ask the question that wide, you end up with a GroenLinks budget. There's no way to pay it. You have to wonder what you're doing to prevent terrorism in the end. In it, the cabinet distinguishes three phases. The first phase is the cluster of prevention. How do you prevent things? Of course there is a role for youth care, for parole, but there is also a role for anti-jihadisation programmes, which take place in municipalities and which are supported by the government. The second part is a kind of engine block of security services: the AIVD, the STIVD, the Supervisory Commission on the Intelligence and Security Services (CTIVD) and the NCTV. That's the engine block of all this work. Third part is the club that provides the product. You'll be talking about the whole criminal justice chain. So we're looking at all three parts. The continuous process is always ongoing, but deepeningly we asked to show where any bottlenecks might be. We are not going to provide them all with money as a carbon paper. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. The Court will see the results of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u111	I will leave the comment on the Green Left budget to what it is. That budget is always covered, as the Prime Minister is well aware. Only, he doesn't always like that cover. That's different. But do I understand now that we will also be able to understand what I am summing up as "the preventive side"? The Prime Minister said so himself. We know and we hear the signals. We talked about education. We've had the signals from neighborhood work, for example. The point is that you focus the research on what we know might be problematic. Then of course you don't have to analyze the entire Dutch field. So we will soon hear from the cabinet what it is going to do about the bottlenecks in those sectors where one might suspect that bottlenecks might occur there. I understand that, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u112	No. I'm gonna take away two expectations. One is that there is now suddenly extra money for youth care or schools, in full width. No. However, we are looking at the role of such institutions in counter-terrorism and countering jihadisation. But very strong is the kind of support you can give from the national government to these kinds of programs. The second thing I want to avoid is that the picture is emerging that a 500-page dissertation will soon be created, with statements on the state of affairs in the Netherlands regarding the fight against terrorism. We don't have time for that. No one has any. We are asking an in-depth question in the context of the ongoing dialogue we are conducting with these organisations. This deepening demand is aimed at getting very sharp where the bottlenecks are. It's never perfect by its nature, but it doesn't have to be. We want to take a very sharp look at the minds of the people who go about it: where are bottlenecks? Then we spruce a lot about that. That's a real boxing match. You want to keep people from thinking: oh, there's money all of a sudden, so we're gonna do nice things. No, it has to be really essential, it has to be "important to this." There comes a judgment that we will weigh as a cabinet. Possibly, if it's necessary, there's gonna be extra money. We'll report to the Chamber on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u113	A boxing match. That sounds interesting, but isn't it risky? Those who apparently know most of it, from the security services themselves, can also be considered stakeholders. Then it can be said: you can't get everything you want. How can a certain objectification be applied? Then we don't have to think: if you ask organizations, they always want more. Then we also take into account the fact that the seriousness, with the increasing seriousness, of threats of additional capacity is desirable or may be desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u114	There are two things I would like to mention. You start by assuming that the people who work there are good. The good news is that 99.99% is also good and does its work to the best of our ability. We have very good people working with all these partners in the chain. Then there is the normal administrative work of the cabinet: making choices, making decisions based on information. That's our job. That always carries the risk that it is not 100% perfect. Of course, I think it is, but there will always be an opposition party somewhere who knows how to point out a dry twig between all the lover. However, that is what we are debating here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u115	I understand that, but the complexity of political control is as follows. If we talk about the police deployment and the cabinet says that there are enough district agents, then we can hear or see immediately, and we get all kinds of complaints about that that is not the case. With the security services, that's a lot more complicated. Therefore, as a Chamber, I think we need more and more convincingly to see what choices have been made and to get answers to the question of whether more money can not help to be better able to cope with and respond more quickly to new challenges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u116	I'm doing expectations management again. We do not come here with a kind of Fischer Verlag edition of the German book "Het camel" from 1922. I mean, "Das Kamel," "Das Kamel an sich" and "Das Totalkamel." You know: Fischer Verlag, Berlin, 1992, Professor Braunschweig, three parts of a thousand pages each. We're not gonna do that. We really come up with a quick and in-depth analysis. We'll show you the results of that. The Court may then ask its questions on this matter. However, we do not have time for a three-part dissertation. In the end, we will have to discuss here whether the Chamber shares those choices and whether or not it agrees that extra money is needed. Part of that will have to be done, by the nature of the subject, in a certain committee. Not everything will be possible in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u117	Not everything will be possible in public. Here's what I noticed. Last year, we had an AIVD annual plan. Information on this was also given in public. The priorities and objectives were at stake. We are doing so in the fight against cybercrime, and we want to do so in our intelligence position in the Middle East. Can we expect that in a few weeks' time, as far as 2015 is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u118	I can't say for sure. The open summary of the main lines of the annual plan is foreseen for spring. That is also in line with recent years, because it was published once in March and once in April. So it comes in spring. We will do our best, but I honestly think this is going faster. We really want this available sooner, but we're going to see if it can be brought together. However, it now looks like it will appear in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you. Mr. Roemer, you've already started this round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u120	But so many new things have been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u121	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u122	Thank you. I think that's perfectly normal, actually. I must say first of all that I have been somewhat disturbed by the dedain with which the Prime Minister has spoken about the people in the workplace and their possible input to gain insight into what they are up against. However, I leave that to the Prime Minister. My question is about that investigation. To what extent does the Chamber gain insight into, for example, the number of cases that lie on the shelves of detectives and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We now know that cases relating to the fight against fraud and sexual offences remain unresolved for a long time. Do we get an idea of this kind of research? It is about prioritisation, choices and whether it is justified; these are the words of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u123	First of all, I would have said something derogatory about the people who work for all the organisations and services that serve the country and society in order to protect us from insecurity, terrorism and jihadism. I have just said that every time I am impressed by the improbably high quality that is being delivered, whether it be the military, the police or the security services, or the people who are working on prevention in youth care and probation, where I was on the job the other day. I just said that if you ask organizations if they need money, there's a very good chance that the answer is yes. Then I think it is a normal political administrative task, which you, as leaders, have groups in the Chamber and we as a cabinet are asking for further work. That's what I said. Then I come to the second point. Again, there will be no Gesamt study on the entire safety chain. We come up with an analysis where deepening is needed. I cannot say at this stage whether the elements mentioned by Mr Roemer are in it because I want to be quick. We want to get there as soon as possible. There are, of course, all kinds of other places in the normal consultation with the Minister of Security and Justice to ask that type of question. Even tomorrow, I hear him say right here next to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u124	The SP Group has been trying to do this for a year and a half, but we're not getting anywhere. We, and not only ourselves, are already receiving long-term signals, facts and proof that these matters remain long-term. We are talking about serious crimes: weapons offences, sexual offences and serious fraud offences. Especially now that the Public Prosecutor's Office and detectives are getting more involved in another top priority, namely the fight against terrorism and the fight against jihad, it is only getting worse. Hence my question, and I ask him again as I told him in my first term: does the Prime Minister agree with me and does he want to support the rapid independent investigation of the number of cases that remain on the shelves of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that we as the Chamber can understand them and consider with the government whether action should be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u125	There's an AO tomorrow that talks about crime in the broadest possible range. That seems to me to be the time to discuss this. I believe that this is outside the scope of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u126	That is not the case, because the Prime Minister says it is in order. The Prime Minister's coming up with an investigation. Then I want to know what's in that investigation, whether it's independent and whether these things are being taken into account. Since the Prime Minister spoke of it, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, in particular, whether he supports an independent investigation to show what and how many cases remain on the shelves of the Detectives and the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that we can examine with the government whether it is a priority and whether additional resources are needed. Then we can help and control the government. But for that, we need to know the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u127	This belongs to normal traffic between the Chamber, the spokesmen in the political groups and the Minister of Security or, if it is in other areas, the Minister of the Interior or Defence. This belongs in the normal traffic between Chamber and Cabinet. The consequences of prioritising such important matters are precisely the reason why we have asked an in-depth question in a constant dialogue with these organisations, which may lead to additional staffing and additional money. We will report to the Chamber on this as soon as possible. I promise Mr Roemer that we will at least take his suggestion into account, but I cannot make any promises about it now, because I really do not want to interfere with speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u128	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u129	The advantage of all these interruptions is that I've already answered a lot of questions. I have not yet answered the question about the reprioritisation of research at the STUDY. The general discussion on yesterday's intelligence and security services was about the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act and about the new interception system. During that consultation, the Minister of Defence informed us that STUDY has indeed carried out a reprioritisation. The possible long-term consequences of the in-depth research currently under way will be part of this. This may lead to extra bets. In addition, Mr Van Ojik asked about the cable-based interception. The cabinet position on the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act, as I said, was discussed yesterday during the general consultation with the Permanent Committee on Home Affairs. This happened to the rulers of the Interior and Kingdom Relations and of the Defense Department. After the consultation and support we have had in the Chamber for this proposal, we will transpose it into legislation. We will include all these elements, including costs. Several members of the Chamber, for example from the Labour Party and D66, have asked about the schools. We are talking about Action Line 24, as we all know. All trust inspectors at the education inspection have been trained to recognise radicalisation. There is educational material and there are also textbooks and handouts for school professionals. They are not only about recognizing radicalisation, but also about making events like those in Paris discussable. If they so wish, schools can receive training on the recognition of radicalisation and the handling of ideals. They can apply to the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security or to the Centre of Expertise on Social Stability. Schools in vulnerable areas that need it on the ground are being given extra support. As a result, citizenship education has also been called for. We are not aware of the signal given by Mr Van Ojik on this issue. Education institutions have a general role to play in promoting citizenship. Schools have the freedom to give their own form and content. I can say that the school I'm involved in for a few hours a week is very active in that. Mr Van Ojik would like that. Now I come to Mr Van Ojik's question about the expertise in municipalities. What about the expertise of municipalities in tackling radicalisation? Mr Van Ojik referred to the commitment of Minister Asscher of Social Affairs and Employment to make enquiries about this. That's being done right now. Minister Asscher has also promised that the Chamber will be informed of this at the next progress report in March. I think I have answered the questions about the security services, prevention and the more general questions, but when I say that, I see at least two people standing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u130	It's so nice that I'm not needed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u131	You said it yourself. I have two problems with the Prime Minister's story. One. We are standing here because the Prime Minister made a fairly firm statement on security in the Netherlands last time. The chairmen of the political groups have gone into that area and have received signals. Now we're actually stuck in a fog cloud again. The cabinet says we're reprioritising and intensifying. But the cabinet refuses to show us where that came from. Did that man or woman of the Marechaussee come here at the door of Schiphol or from the port of Rotterdam? What's less done? Those are very specific questions. Two. Time and again when we talk about capacity, the numbers get mixed up. There is a large outflow in the police due to the normal ageing population. But in the numbers, every young agent is counted, even the student. People with expertise have left the AIVD. To build up that expertise, you need years. There is no information on this either, and that is at the heart of this debate. Reprioritising means somewhere else a little less. What's that? Is the cabinet willing to say that? If you're talking about capacity and you need years to build up expertise, you should also indicate how you're dealing with that expertise in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u132	I have answered that first point. I have said: it is inevitable that somewhere else something less happens when you reprioritize and accept that it is necessary for a certain period of time. That's the usual administrative-political work. I find that only uncomfortable to share in public, because I think it gives too much information about the KMar. That's not just a police force; it's not for nothing under the Defense Department. It's our military police. That is why I think it is important not to share it in public. But of course, choices have been made. People have not suddenly emerged from nothing who now, for example, secure the House of Representatives. They were taken from somewhere else. That's normal prioritization. That's a choice you have to make. You have to take responsibility for that, too. Then you have to constantly ask yourself whether it doesn't take too long and whether the hole that arises somewhere else is acceptable. That is exactly the discussion we have had over the last 45 minutes. It is also the reason why we are constantly talking to services and organisations about what effects it has in the medium and longer term. That is why there is also the deepening demand and the report that will shortly come to the Chamber with possible additional measures. I don't know if it is; maybe we will. But I find it difficult to say right now: it means that you have taken off there and there marshalssees. I think that is more of a matter for the confidential consultation that you regularly hold with each other in a certain place. I found this answer convincing. I have therefore forgotten Mr Pechtold's second question; I apologise for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u133	That was the question of whether the right capacity is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u134	That was the question about the AIVD. We discussed that question last time. At that time, the picture was that a lot of expertise had run away from the AIVD. As I said at the time, these are limited numbers. If I go further, it is also a matter for a certain committee, as I said at the time. It would almost give access to what may or may not fall a hole. But it's limited numbers, and we're also trying to recruit them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u135	I do not think that we should be referred again and again to a certain committee. If you take away neighborhood agents, you know that this is at the expense of the work in the neighborhood. Now, if you take away the marshals, we'll know where they came from. I just want to know how much FTE, how much human commitment it takes. About the capacity I just want to know more clearly whether it is a policeman who needs to be trained that takes years including all trainings... or an AIVD'er with a certain specialization. Because it takes time. In the letter itself, the cabinet states that we may have a capacity problem in the medium term. In addition, it is almost universally said: we think we should start now because tomorrow starts today. The Prime Minister cannot say: wait until an investigation is completed and go to a certain committee if you want to know more. For that the cabinet should not have said in the previous debate, and now again, through the Prime Minister: it is all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u136	I repeat what I said. At present, we are well placed to deal with the tasks, both in terms of the administrative and legal framework and in terms of funding and human resources. That is also true for the immediate future in its course; I repeat what I have already said a number of times. Nevertheless, we are constantly in conversation with the services to see what prioritization means and what gaps it may cause in the medium or longer term. After all, action must be taken. I have also outlined that we have done so in the past. The Action Plan and the additional investments in the AIVD are examples of this. I wrote in the letter and now said once again that we asked all the chain partners concerned to look at it in depth again in the context of the constant dialogue. We're going to report to the Chamber about that. We expect to report on this in the next few weeks. Perhaps we could agree to reconsider what exactly can be shared in public and not in public of the information that Mr Pechtold is asking about the marechaussees that are now being deployed and which have been removed elsewhere? We're gonna weigh it again. If part of it can be done in public, we will write it in the letter with the conclusions of the floor we are sending anyway. We'll report it if we can't. Let's make a deal like this. I will be able to meet Mr Pechtold as much as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u137	There was one more question open, but I have to give you some approval. The frustration that has just been expressed is very recognizable. The Prime Minister says once again that they can carry out all their duties. In doing so, he confirms that he seems to think it is normal that sex crimes remain for years and that fraud cases are not being dealt with. I'll leave that to the Prime Minister, but I don't think it's acceptable. I do not think that much of the group chairmen would accept it either. The question that has not been answered is whether the Prime Minister has spoken to the Mayor of The Hague. This mayor has said openly that he cannot handle his responsibilities over the jihadists and does not know what to do with them. In doing so, he publicly criticised the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u138	There is very regular consultation with the mayors, especially with the mayors of the larger cities. In other contexts, I also speak to other authorities. For example, I recently received all the King's Commissioners at the Catshuis. They do not have a formal role in this, but of course they are also very involved in this issue. A lot of that conversation was about this. I also have frequent contact with the mayor of The Hague. I am not going to go into specific discussions and the issues that are being dealt with, but I can assure Mr Roemer that I myself, and certainly Ivo Opstel, the Minister for Security and Justice, are in close contact with all the authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u139	The Prime Minister may continue to refuse to reply to members of parliament who exercise their controlling role, but the Mayor of The Hague has indeed openly criticised cabinet policy because he would not be able to face up to his responsibilities over the jihadists. We may then expect to be told publicly by the Prime Minister whether the Mayor of The Hague is talking out of his neck or whether he has a point and how the Prime Minister solved it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u140	There is a constant conversation between the cabinet and the authorities at other administrative levels in the Netherlands. It is impossible to give constant access to it. It is also impossible to respond in public to any authority in the media. Every mayor is free to do so; I have no criticism of the measure they choose to do so either. If Mr Roemer asks whether these signals are known to the cabinet and whether they are weighted, then the answer is absolutely yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u141	Mr President, I am making a third attempt. I find it unacceptable that the Prime Minister should refuse to answer the question of what the government is doing with such an important issue, the responsibility of a mayor when it comes to jihadism. The mayor of The Hague has publicly said that he cannot get away with this. He has publicly said that he has a problem dealing with jihadism. It is not possible for the Prime Minister to refuse to answer the highest body with a controlling role, the House of Representatives. You can't do that! If Mr Van Aartsen, the mayor of The Hague, has rightly criticised, then the Prime Minister has a problem that he has to solve. Or does the Prime Minister say, "He's full of shit, 'cause nothing's wrong."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u142	Every signal from people like Jozias van Aartsen, the mayor of The Hague, known to us, is taken very seriously. It will be weighed and it will be considered whether there should be a need to change the policy. I can make that commitment to Mr Roemer. What I am not doing and I am not really going to do is answer for any public expression of a mayor or a commissioner of the King in public in the Chamber. I really don't see why that would be necessary. I do not think it fits in with the supervisory task of the Chamber, as I have always understood it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u143	I am going to try to go out of this debate with less frustration than others are afraid that they will go out of the debate. It's possible, but the Prime Minister will have to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u144	I'm gonna do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u145	You're gonna do your best. The good thing about the debate so far is that there is now an investigation into how to proceed with this, even though the Prime Minister gave the impression on 14 January that he thought it was all in order. I still have questions about how this research will be done exactly, but when I get the results, I will see that. There is one question left, and that is not even such a complicated question: when can we expect that research? If we want to make progress, we will have to work on the issues that we want to change already in the Spring paper. In other words, what timetable does the Prime Minister envisage for this investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u146	The answer to the second question is very simple: within the next few weeks. That investigation is coming to the Chamber real soon. On Mr Buma's first comment, I have a very different picture of the debate on 14 January. That picture is really different from Mr Buma's image, but we have thus approached each other at the heart of his question. That's why I think he should be happy by now. Mr Buma also had some introductory shots at his question. In response to this, I repeat what I said on 14 January: at the moment, the money, the humanities and the legal and administrative framework are in order. At the same time, we are constantly checking whether more is needed. We're not gonna do any more research. In the context of this constant dialogue, we have asked all our chain partners an in-depth question and we will inform the Chamber of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u147	In any case, we agree that this debate took place on 14 January. That's something! I don't want to go into too much detail, but when can we expect it? Is that gonna be one, two, or three weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u148	I can assure Mr Buma that it is a matter of weeks and that it will happen as soon as possible. We also have our normal decision-making in the cabinet, of course, but if the in-depth question shows that there are acute gaps that need to be closed immediately, then we will do it much faster. Of course; that goes every day. In such a case, we take immediate action. However, I do not have any indication of this at the moment. It really comes in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u149	Okay. If it's too long, we're gonna have to go back to reappearing: where's the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u150	And rightly so. That's exactly what I appreciate. At the press conference on Friday two weeks ago, when the letter came from the group chairmen of a number of opposition parties, I was asked whether that irritated me. My answer was: no, I find it insanely good that they are so involved in this subject, apparently worrying and feeling urgent, and do not feel sufficiently served to ask this question. Only in this way, in a constant dialogue between the Chamber and the Cabinet, can we give each other the broadest possible support. It is an issue which, as far as I am concerned, transcends coalition and parties and which is about one of the core tasks of administrative-politics in the Netherlands, namely keeping the country safe, state security, the fight against jihadism and terrorism. So I was glad that the irritation came out and pleased with the opportunity to take away misunderstandings here. I look forward to continuing that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u151	Thank you so much. I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u152	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. Thank you also to Members for their contributions and the questions I have asked. Of course, I share the importance and seriousness of the current threat and the urgency of constantly taking adequate and appropriate action in it, as the Prime Minister has just said. When I listen to the contributions of Members of Parliament and the questions they have, I find that the Chamber shares that point incredibly. That's a commitment from us together. I do not, of course, need to inform Members that since March 2013, the threat level has been increased substantially. We've been here almost two years. I can only conclude that the jihadist threat is of long duration. This is the subject of the moment. I am working very intensively on this every day, both at national and international level, under my responsibility. Every day, we ask ourselves if we're in order. Mr Samsom has already spoken about this. That question is of course asked daily to the professionals, also by me. The answer is "now, yes." All partners in the security chain, investigation services, security services, the Public Prosecutor's Office and local government have constantly adapted to address this threat. A visible example of this, as the Prime Minister has just talked about it in detail, has been the security of Parliament by the military police since last Monday. The police are back in the neighborhoods, which is necessary, and the KMar has been trained in and trained and equipped for its security task. Of course, we only make such choices in good consultation with the safety chain and these choices are justified on the advice of that chain. As I have just said, the current threat is also a long-term one. We now have the security partners and the NCTV prepare their analysis for the short, medium and long term, so that the safety chain remains in order. That's our job. The Chamber and we are facing the same task there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u153	I came forward when the minister went into the fact that he was talking to his people and that they were asking "can you handle it?" answered: now, yes. That's where the core is. It is strange that when we ask that question, the answer is: now, no. I can't explain that. The only thing I could tell the Minister on that point is the next question. If the Chamber wants to hear these people in public and ask the question it has, is it inclined to agree to it? There must be nothing mysterious about that, these people really must be allowed to say what they want to say. The Chamber can then ask them: can you handle it, and if it is not, where are the bottlenecks? If the Chamber makes this invitation, will the Minister be willing to do so? Because it has to be through him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u154	I don't think that's necessary. We are examining what is needed in the short, medium and long term, and the Prime Minister has also said the necessary things. There's an answer to that. We will ask our services. That's happening now. That process must take shape along the path that the Prime Minister has just indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u155	But what is the Minister afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u156	We're not afraid of anything. Of course, we run the country in an orderly fashion. This is the line I've always used, which we use. We're fine now. The situation of jihadism and an increased level of threat is going to take longer and may take a long time. Then you have to take responsibility for taking the right measures now, tomorrow and tomorrow. That's what the Prime Minister said. I have nothing to add, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u157	I repeat my question. What you are saying is undoubtedly true, but the Chamber has its own responsibility to get its information in order. When it comes to services which fall within the remit of the Minister, we must, of course, ask for permission for a hearing. So I think: I do that here and then the Minister says yes. But the Minister says they can tell me something, but the fact that the Chamber hears something else in confidence is her problem. If I propose to hear these people openly, so that the Minister can control it too, it is not allowed! That, of course, makes it absolutely impossible to carry out the controlling task that we want to do, precisely because there is such a world of difference in what we hear and what the Minister hears. That's not a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u158	We have had this debate more often, in AO's and in plenary debates. All services are provided by the police, the prosecutor and the NFI. He can check the room. That's how it works. We also set priorities. We have identified six priorities in the area of the security agenda. We've established it with all the authority, all the mayors and the D.A.'s office. The Chamber is regularly informed of its priorities. I shall now turn to the questions raised by Mr Roemer. For the first time in history, a monitor has been set. We make them clear to the Chamber, and we can answer for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u159	The Minister says: in the recent past we have asked the services and the people what we are like. Those people say that things are in order and that they can handle their duties. The Minister now says he's going to ask the same people again where we stand. What's the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u160	We ask that every day. As the Prime Minister said, we are going to ask the services in the security chain what they think is necessary in the short, medium and long term to achieve the objectives and to do what is necessary for national security. As the Prime Minister said, we will come to the Chamber when we are finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u161	The Prime Minister and the Minister have always said that they always do this. You're gonna do it again. What's the difference? Are you going to ask for more? Are you gonna ask other people? Are you going to ask independent parties? You have always asked the services in the past if they could handle the work in the short, medium and long term. So there's no difference in that. What's the difference with the new investigation you're announcing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u162	I'd like to say that again. As I said, we came to the conclusion...In March 2013, the threat level was raised to substantial levels. We are now almost two years ahead and have taken all kinds of measures, both at national and international level. And now we say: we also need to see if we need more than we are doing now in the short, medium and long term. That's what we stand for. The Prime Minister has told you a very clear story about this. I'm telling the same story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u163	This is what we asked for two weeks ago. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Security and Justice then said that they had done it and that it was in order, so there was no reason. Two weeks later, this minister and the Prime Minister said we need to do new research. Apparently, a lot of things have changed in two weeks. We asked that question not in 2013, but two weeks ago. There was nothing going on back then. Everything was in order. The investigation was already done. Now there's going to be a new investigation. Who's the researcher and who's gonna do it? To what extent is the question different? Where's the difference? Is the Minister really going to conduct independent investigations into all those cases that have remained?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u164	The Prime Minister has indicated that we are going to do research, to make an analysis. We have also come to the conclusion that, of course, the level of threat is long and will take a long time. That is, of course, our assessment and analysis. A lot's happened in the last few weeks. I believe that society is clear and clear in this respect, and that this question must be constantly and in full focus. That's the answer again. The investigation and the results are coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u165	Who's doing the investigation? What is the scope of the investigation? What's the research assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u166	The Prime Minister has just indicated that. He also indicated the cause. It is important, because we are now saying: now we are in order, right now. I'm gonna say that again. We have taken a number of measures. That's what we put in the letter. The second point is that we believe that, in the medium and long term, we need to analyse what measures still need to be taken. This is what we do with the services, i.e. the NCTV and the relevant safety chain services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u167	This is not the beginning of an answer to the question of who carries out the research, how broad the research is and what the research assignment is. I can't hear anything. Two years the threat level in this country is substantial. Six months ago, we held the first debate with group chairmen and expressed our dissatisfaction with the lack of information. Two weeks ago, there was nothing wrong. Since we are continuing, the cabinet now states in a letter: we are going to investigate. And now the Secretary of Security says he asks them every morning. This room wants more information. The Minister cannot send us again today with a brat in the reed by saying that we have to wait another few weeks. It could just be five, and a day, I think. Like Mr Buma, I want the Chamber to have the opportunity to hear the head of the national police, the head of the AIVD, the director of the NFI and the prosecutor. That is my parliamentary option. If the Minister does not allow us to do so in the next few weeks, I ask him what he has to hide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u168	I have nothing to hide. I only think that we should now make our own analysis with our services, i.e. the NCTV and the safety chain services. That is where we make our analysis of the situation and of what the cabinet ultimately considers necessary. As soon as that's done, we'll let the Chamber know. Then, of course, a debate can take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u169	That's the butcher who approves his own flesh. The cabinet checks with the head of the NCTV, Mr Schoof, with whom I see the minister on television about every day, whether it is really all right in the politicians, in the NFI and in the AIVD. The Chamber has a controlling role. If the Minister has nothing to hide and is convinced that nothing is going on, as he and the Prime Minister have said, and this is also apparent from the investigation, then what is wrong with us as a Chamber organising a hearing to exchange what can be exchanged in public with the people who are working on this in the field? I understand that it is all fine at the top of the ministry, but we want a deeper layer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u170	It is not a question of now, but of what is necessary in the short, medium and long term. We are making an analysis of this and we are drawing our conclusions on it. That is what we stand for and we will let the Chamber know. The House is then called upon to check and determine whether our analysis and conclusions are correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u171	It's starting to get a little unclear to me, too. The Minister of Security and Justice says it's not about this now. However, it is a matter of the present; it is also a matter of the present. We also want to hear these people about the capacity problems now. Perhaps not all this can be done in public; I still understand that. However, I am not in favour of the Minister saying that the Chamber should not talk to these people. I will give you the reason for that once again. There is something strange going on: they say something different to their own minister than in the confidential talks with the Chamber. That needs to be clarified. I therefore ask you one more time: is the Minister of Security and Justice prepared to give permission to his people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u172	I'm staying on the line that I think is the only right thing to do right now. It's far too important for that, too. I say again: now we are in order. We are going to look at the short, medium and long term what is necessary. We'll do it ourselves. We're not gonna let you do that independently, but we're gonna do it ourselves. We'll draw our conclusions and let the Chamber know. Then the Chamber will be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u173	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u174	I come to Mr Pechtold's question: why is the implementation of the plan taking so long? He says, "Tell me when what's ready." I am happy to indicate this in the next progress report. I am prepared to indicate exactly the planning of the points. The Chamber received a progress note on 12 November. On 30 March, the Chamber will again receive a progress note. There are many examples, concretely with time marking, of things that have already been realized. I shall mention them briefly. I've been asked for it a few times. An exit facility will be operational as of 1 June 2015. Since 1 February 2015, an expert centre has been operational for early warning and support of municipalities. A specialist police team has been operational since 1 December 2014 to fight hate on the Internet. Additional prosecutors have been appointed within the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Prime Minister has indicated the legislative programme, which is also on schedule. Mr Pechtold asked for the definition of a traveller. The AIVD defines a traveler, a jihadganger, as follows: any person who leaves the Netherlands with jihadist intentions in an attempt to reach battle areas in which jihadist groups are active. This definition is set out in the letter of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u175	The minister says that new prosecutors have been appointed for this task. Are they on top of the pre-existing prosecutors or are they reprioritising?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u176	On top of the existing one. That is the additional contribution entered in the budget for the extension of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u177	I would like to ask you one more time just to be clear, because the Minister may, of course, be mistaken. Are they appointed on top of the additional increase in the budget for the capacity of the Public Prosecutor or is it a reprioritisation? My data is different, namely that they were assigned from the same budget and that this is therefore a reprioritisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u178	No, they're additional district attorneys assigned to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u179	Same money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u180	No, I'm going to say one more time that, within the estimates for the public prosecutor's budget, additional prosecutors have been appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u181	It sounds a little hesitant. I asked about the 38 points plan whether the March report on each point could clearly indicate...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u182	Yeah, I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u183	The minister says yes. Before we have another expectation problem again: I would like to see progress, capacity and finance in a very clear matrix per point. Is that the promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u184	Yes. I have to make the point, however, that it is not possible to indicate exactly what is ready at every point of action. My natural tendency is always to fill it out like this. Mr Pechtold asked how many travellers there were at European level. He refers to the reports from Spain, the reports from my Spanish colleagues, and talks about tens of thousands. I don't recognize this number. The JHA Council uses a number of 3,000 to 5,000 travellers across Europe. That was the number last week, when we were together in Riga. Mr Van der Staaij asked when the Chamber could expect the results of the analysis of the safety chain. The Prime Minister has said the necessary things. A great deal has already been said about capacity by the Prime Minister. I want to say this about it. Since the summer of 2014, police have been carrying out additional tasks in the context of fighting the jihadist threat for the surveillance and security of certain objects. This is a task of the National Police; it has always been. That was a responsible choice then. Since Monday, the KMar has also appeared here. It carries out the monitoring and security tasks around a number of objects, including the parliament. This means that basic police care, one of the central tasks of the police, is back to strength in the neighbourhoods. The base police teams remain in order. We don't need agents from the region or the villages anymore. This is all very well discussed with the authorities: the mayors, the regional mayors, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the authority over the KMar. They believe that this is a very welcome and a responsible choice as far as the KMar is concerned. Mr Roemer spoke to me about the problem of organized crime in the south of the country, which I found very surprising: is it at the expense of that? No, there's just been an extra team formed of 125 detectives, including from the National Unity. I'm going to work there soon. I think that as such is a success, but it also deserves the long term. I was informed again yesterday about the liquidations. The responsible services have assured me this week that within the existing priorities there is sufficient capacity to deal with the liquidations. Dealing with the liquidations is, of course, also a long-term issue. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether more security measures should not be taken at police stations or barracks. If threat and risk give rise to this, security measures shall be taken. This also applies to police stations and barracks. I can assure you that the National Police Corps leadership has a great deal of attention to this and that all the National Police staff have written about this personally with emails in which this also comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u185	Mr Roemer wishes to comment on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u186	I know the Minister likes to set out a number of priorities. That's what the capacity is used for. However, this is always within the existing framework and budget. The capacity is thus removed elsewhere. Even on matters that are given priority, such as the fight against crime in drug gangs in the south, we hear during work visits that there is so much work that we cannot handle it. Does the Minister consider it acceptable that, in the field of combating fraud and serious crime, cases remain on the shelf for years in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, without anyone being able to look at them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u187	I dispute that it is. Let me put it this way. I just said something about it, because it's not the case. It can, of course, be a consideration and a choice to give one matter more priority than the other. That is the principle of opportunity. Fortunately, for the first time, the cabinet has put in place a monitoring and an overview, so that we know what remains on the shelf. It is the first time that fraud has been given priority by the authorities. I would just like to say that to Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u188	It's a pity if the Chamber gets information other than the Minister. It seems to me that the Minister should embrace my proposal to launch an independent investigation into whether things remain unspoiled for a long time. It is not a matter of a crutch here or there, but of really serious crime such as sex, weapons and fraud. If I am going to move for an independent inquiry into these matters, is the Minister prepared to leave the judgment to the Chamber, because he himself is very interested in the outcome of an independent investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u189	No, I don't think such an investigation is necessary. The police can handle their work well with the existing capacity. That's also the advantage of the National Police. Both tackling the drug problem and the problem of liquidation means that capacity can easily be shifted to where it is needed at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u190	In fact, it is impossible for so many people from the field to say that things are going to stay down and the minister puts his head in the sand and says that he doesn't believe it, because he is told by his top officials that it isn't. I think it's really insufferable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u191	I must contradict that. I don't just listen to people in the department. I listen to them, too, and they listen to me. That is still the case, let there be no misunderstanding. But of course I am also a lot in Brabant, Amsterdam or anywhere to be informed by the people who do the work. That's the point. That's where I hear the sounds as I just said. If Mr Roemer gets signals I don't know, he can bring them to me so I can do something with them. I'd like to ask him that. Then I can judge it myself, because I have that responsibility. In that case, I can draw the conclusions myself and indicate what I am doing with the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u192	You will be served at your beck and call.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u193	The Minister received 1,700 completed surveys in a report this morning. How many more signals does he want from cops? 1,700 agents have responded and all the comments they have emailed are in the report. Read them and support an independent investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u194	I've read the report. I started the questionnaire. I've seen the answers. I have also taken the SP survey seriously, but I have my own information and came to different conclusions than were drawn in the AO by Mrs Kooiman. Mr Van Ojik asked about the returners and whether there was sufficient capacity. At least that's how I interpreted his question. We have talked enough about the safety chain. Any known returner shall stand and be interrogated. He'll be prosecuted by the D.A. if there's a reason. The AIVD and the police are making him or her a risk assessment. Appropriate measures will be taken, ranging from permanent observation to a deradicalisation process or an exit programme. That could be possible. That's a national responsibility. That is also the theme of the Mayor of The Hague, with whom we are fully on the same track for the sake of clarity. All known returners are discussed at local level per case. The returnee doesn't disappear from sight either way. Risk analyses are regularly updated, but we do live in a rule of law. Judges make statements, too. That is what we choose to do, and that is what we stand for. I come to Mr Van Aartsen. I took it in there. He'll definitely look, so I hope he calls tonight to say, "I totally agree." The central theme in a very friendly letter, in which Mr Van Aartsen quietly said what he found, is: the returners are a national responsibility. We agree with that. We are looking together for the right tools to make that happen. I'm getting to the law. Mr Buma spoke to me about this. I have a legislative proposal with administrative measures in preparation which includes a reporting obligation. A reporting obligation may help to keep an eye on a person who poses a danger to national security. That must be demonstrated by his or her behavior. There doesn't have to be a criminal offence. The notification bill will be in consultation this spring, so that it is expected to go to the Council of State for the summer. That's March. We really put pressure on that, as the Prime Minister said. There's a pace going on. In the next progress report, I will explicitly state what progress has been made. I had the feeling from what I read from Mr Buma that we were on the same page. I'd like to hear that in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u195	I'd like to accept that invitation. Sure. My irritation was next and hopefully it will be less after this debate. In September, the cabinet wrote down something we never heard from again. In March we have been seven months, but it must really be there. Then we must talk about the proposal, because I do not want to wait any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u196	I think we share that situation in terms of planning. Okay, then it's exchanged. Mr Van Ojik asked whether the administrative measures only apply to the 35 returners. That is not the case. These measures certainly do not apply only to returners. It is a question of whether there is a threat to national security on the basis of personal behaviour. This can of course also be the case with a person who has not left the Netherlands. Mr Van Ojik asked if I agree with him that travelling is undesirable. Yes. That is why I am working on a proposal to implement an exit ban. Mr Van der Staaij urges us to make haste with the tightening up of legislation. The legislation is on schedule. I'll make sure it stays that way. Mr Van Ojik asked whether the Dutchmanship will be taken before or after return and for what purpose. The current law already has the possibility to withdraw from the Netherlands after an irrevocable conviction for a terrorist offence. Bill 34016 extends this. It may be about returners, but it doesn't have to be. We have talked about this before. Another bill introduces the possibility to withdraw from the Netherlands if someone has joined a terrorist organisation such as IS abroad. In that case, no criminal conviction is required. After that, the person concerned can no longer legally travel back. This proposal is expected to be presented to the Council of State at the end of March or early April. It's in consultation now. The conclusion of the cabinet's decision to forward the proposal to the Council of State is close.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u197	This put an end to the government's first term. I just assume there's a need for a second term. I note that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u198	Mr. Chairman. For two years there has been a substantial level of threat. In September we had a debate with the group chairmen on the basis of a plan drawn up by the cabinet, on which we will have a progress report in March. In the meantime, we have had two debates on topical and urgent subjects. A little bit at a time when it comes to informing the Chamber, taking questions seriously and responding to suggestions from the Chamber. It's a lot of work, but it's important that it happens. I still find it strange that the cabinet says: trust us for a few weeks, because now things are going well; we are investigating it ourselves. The Minister himself said that the investigation is not independent, because we do it ourselves. I therefore note that in this case the butcher approves his own meat. I still believe that we must ensure that the Chamber itself is able to verify that this is true. That is why I have signed a motion on this subject. Last time we tabled a motion in response to the Prime Minister's firm statement that there was nothing wrong and that capacity and other matters were in order. However, we are still getting other signals. From the Chamber we said last time that we were prepared to think directly with Finance prior to the Spring Note if necessary. You need to train a cop, and it takes time. You need to train an expert at the AIVD and that too takes time. You have to monitor capacity and quality at the NFI; that all goes away, but you don't just get that back. That's why I'm filing exactly the same motion as last time. I hope this time she will not be discouraged and voted away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the work of the security services is an important contribution to the protection of freedoms in our country;]] [[Whereas the increase in jihad-goers and their possible return may lead to a tightening capacity in the security services;]] [[calls on the Government, the Security Services, to provide the capacity and finances to be able to do the necessary work even in the event of a sudden increase in the number of returning jihad-goers and to inform the Court of its outcome for the handling of the Spring Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Roemer and Mr Van Ojik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u199	Madam President. The cabinet's working with security. It does not answer questions from the Chamber and certainly not questions from society. The Prime Minister speaks with flour in his mouth, but we can no longer bake bread. After all, it is a sign that seven group chairmen are raising together and asking questions about our national security. The cabinet announces a meaningless investigation. When we ask who is going to carry out that investigation and who is going to check it, it turns out that their own people are doing that research. WC duck controls WC duck. I have been disturbed by the derogatory way in which signals from the workplace at police, detectives, NFI and the Public Prosecutor's Office are simply referred to the realm of fables. The Prime Minister asked publicly whether the choices made were justified, but then refused to mention the choices made and to tell where the gaps were. If the Prime Minister has no idea what matters remain, how can he guarantee that there are no capacity problems in the services? The House of Representatives should be able to control the government. Therefore, we need to know where staff are being removed and which cases are no longer being taken into custody. For this purpose, the SP wants an independent investigation in order to assess what remains to be done. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, independently, to investigate how many and what kind of cases remain in the police and prosecutor's office due to lack of capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u200	The Prime Minister has promised to be prepared to make additional investments in the event of deficits. From the almost complete opposition, that is indeed a unique fact that today has been extended several times towards the cabinet to support it. Nevertheless, the cabinet is constantly rejecting this offer. Apparently there is no need to invest extra in security, but at least let us stop cutting back over 300 million on our security. At least that is unacceptable to the SP Group. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to reverse the cuts in police, NFI and Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u201	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of V and J for their answers to the questions. We met in the Chamber today in response, among other things, to the Prime Minister's statements on 14 January. The great question asked by the Chamber, at least by the seven group chairmen who asked the written questions, is whether the capacity is in order, given that such an incredible appeal is being made to the counter-terrorism and jihadism services; if the commitment to terrorism and jihadism is sufficient. I must say that that question is still open. I regret that. At the same time, I see that as a positive step forward because the cabinet states: yes, we are now working on this in the short term and within a few weeks. So far, it hasn't always been. At some point the Minister for Security and Justice was asked the question: is that question being put out? Then he said: I speak to people almost daily, and then I send a letter to the Chamber with priorities. That's the story that we don't think is enough anymore. Of course, we know that this minister calls everything a priority, but we also know that there are services behind it that just don't work anymore. That's got to be answered. Then the difference between what the cabinet says it hears and what we Members of Parliament hear is too great. That is why this debate has occasionally been difficult. It's gotta get back together. That's what the cabinet's doing an investigation for. I think it is a little vague what it is going to be, but within a few weeks we will get the answer. However, the Chamber is also entitled to its own information. We had a rather difficult debate on this with the Minister of Security and Justice, who for dark reasons gives me the impression that the people who belong to him are not going to talk directly to the Chamber. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas services in the security chain devote a significant part of their capacity to combating terrorism and jihadism;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives receives signals that the services concerned have insufficient capacity for this purpose, including in the longer term, and lack capacity for other tasks;]] [[calls on the Government to authorise the services concerned to participate in a hearing, whether in public or not.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haersma Buma, Pechtold and Roemer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-293]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u202	For the sake of explanation, the motion says 'public or not', because we are aware that it may not be possible for certain parts to be made public, for example when it comes to specific capacity questions. We will only allow for a confidential hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u203	Thank you for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr. Chairman. Once again, it was not the subject of a debate, this debate, that was what it was meant to be. It's really unbelievable. Let me say with some key words what this debate was about. It was about a dialogue. It was about commitment. It was all incredibly important. Is there enough going on in child care? "Customization is being done," "We're doing an investigation," "There's an exit program," "We're going to discuss it on a case-by-case basis," "Now we're in order," I hear the Minister of Justice say. "We want a hearing." What a huge sham discussion, what a mess of lyrics and, with all due respect, what a fucking debate! Everyone revolves around the cause. If you don't address the cause, if you don't bring out and introduce solutions on the basis of that cause, you'll never solve the problems, even if you have a thousand hearings and committees. The cause is, of course, the Islamization of the Netherlands. Why doesn't anyone dare mention that here, even today? The cause of the problems is that there are 100,000 Muslims in the Netherlands who are willing to use violence. I'm not making that up. It's from research. 80% of Turkish Muslim youth are okay with using violence against Christians, against Jews, against anyone who is not a Muslim. That's what we need to talk about. That's the problem. I cannot support Mr Pechtold's motion. The motion states that extra money must be sent to the AIVD. I am not against it in itself in order to limit the number of returnees when they arrive in the Netherlands. But that's the problem. We need to close our borders. We must ensure that these people can leave the Netherlands but never come back to the Netherlands. Close the borders. Don't let them come back. The PVV Group does not need a hearing, a committee or an investigation to reach that conclusion. In fact, I think we're just helping the Cabinet because the discussion isn't what it's about. Unfortunately, the cabinet again does not do what it should do, does not dare to name the cause and comes up with weak measures. We shall continue to repeat it here. I think the voter will be able to show what he or she thinks on 18 March.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u205	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the first-term replies. Let me say this: I do not doubt the commitment of the cabinet, but from time to time I have doubts as to whether the right priorities are being set. For us that is really very difficult to control, especially in a situation where you see everything that needs to be put more money into the security chain, where you see that this is not happening and where it is being prioritised and shifted without knowing what the consequences are. I find that difficult. I'm just saying that out loud. It is also sometimes not sufficiently clear whether the cabinet really anticipates developments in good time. In this way, if you want good people for the things our security service stands for, for example, you should not try to find those people at a very late stage. Before you get it to work well and well, a lot of time has passed. The cabinet insists on its own investigation and has indicated that it will produce the results in the coming weeks. I am assuming that it will be there on Friday 13 March or so, so it is really fast. Nevertheless, we also believe that the Chamber should assume its own responsibility. That is why I co-signed Mr Pechtold's motion, which states that additional investments must be made. In my first term, I drew attention to the resilience of our rule of law, also in relation to what is happening in education. Among other things, the Prime Minister responded. I'm worried about that. Those concerns are only getting bigger. Something is happening here and there, but my group wants this to be given more priority. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important to support teachers in their efforts to transfer the values of our rule of law;]] [[noting that teachers sometimes encounter bottlenecks in practice;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with education, to identify these bottlenecks and to propose a targeted approach to solving bottlenecks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-294]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u206	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers very much for their reply. At the heart of this debate, we have already had several debates on the fight against terrorism and jihadism, the question is whether there is enough money and capacity available to the security services: the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the General Intelligence and Security Service and the STIVD. I am glad that it has been explained earlier in the letter and today in the debate that this will be investigated. I understand we don't have to count on a dissertation. As long as it has the accuracy of a dissertation, I would like to say to the Prime Minister. We hope that the results can be shared quickly with the Chamber. According to the SGP Group, it is precisely these budgets for the security services that should not be dealt with. Besides capacity, it's always about priority. It is very important that the Chamber also has an insight into this. For certain services, this is easier to discuss in public than for the security services, for example. Nevertheless, we also have the use that we regularly receive, at least once a year, public information for this purpose. In future, however, we would like to have this sooner than has been the case so far. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the priorities and accents of the annual plan of the General Intelligence and Security Service (AIVD) will always come to the Chamber during the first quarter;]] [[considers that it is important for the understanding of the work of the AIVD and its prioritisation to provide early and public clarity on the deployment of this service;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Court is given an insight into the priorities and accents of the AlVD, the relationship to the available budget and the coordination with other security services by 1 December at the latest prior to the year covered by the annual plan of the AIVD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Pechtold, Mr Slob, Mr Van Haersma Buma, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Roemer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-295]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for answering my questions as well. I said in the first term that I do not find it strange at all that the cabinet is going to review that chain before the decision to make additional funds available for it. I have to say, however, that I think that the possibility for the Chamber to be able to assess the balance that the cabinet makes on its own is important. We shall therefore certainly vote in favour of the Buma c.s. motion. vote on that hearing. There's a hearing in the Lower House almost every day these days. That is far too much for a small fraction to be able to attend them all, by the way. But that it would not be possible at this point, especially if there is the possibility of exchanging matters in confidence, makes me a little suspicious, I must say. I hope that the cabinet will return to that point. It is good that research in the chain is not only limited to the safety chain in a strict sense, but also to the preventive side. The Prime Minister has also spoken about this. I understand that that is not infinite and that you have to draw a line somewhere, even if it is to prevent, as the Prime Minister said, from resembling a GroenLinks budget. Of course, he doesn't want to, and I understand that. I also welcome the fact that a number of activities are being undertaken in the field of education in the action programme. However, I would ask the Cabinet, if it is critical of that chain, to look again at the possible contribution of education. To that end, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Integrated Approach Action Programme Jihadism intends to further support educational institutions in shaping their citizenship education to promote active citizenship and social integration of pupils and students;]] [[Whereas schools make an important contribution to combating and preventing polarisation, radicalisation and incomprehension, and are therefore an important chain partner;]] [[calls on the Government to explore in its analysis of the safety chain how, in consultation with teachers and educational institutions, their contribution to combating and preventing polarisation, misunderstanding and radicalisation can be supported and further improved, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by members Van Ojik and Samsom. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-296]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u208	Mr. Chairman. At times this was a somewhat uncomfortable debate, because sometimes the need for information was not entirely consistent with the provision of information. Although my group, like the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has a little more understanding of the fact that the cabinet does not immediately spend all kinds of money with steam and boiling water, but first prepares an analysis, I find it difficult, from my principled point of view as a representative of the people, to have the reservations that are sometimes expressed. My group is therefore also keen to support Mr Buma's motion if it can be properly implemented. But I take it that there are no accidents because things that should have stayed decided are accidentally made public. Let us see if we can find a form for this. After all, Parliament is simply entitled to the right information at the right time. My group has recently had the impression that the cabinet was well involved in the matter of the security services. I have the strong impression that many colleagues have given that message once again with all the urgency. I would almost say that if the cabinet doesn't get it now, I don't know either. So I expect results from this in the foreseeable future. I am glad that I was able to table a motion with Mr Van Ojik to bring some balance to bear on the approach. Because it's not just about weapons, security, police and justice. It is also about teachers and about education itself. That's where it has to be. I would very much like to support that motion. I still owe an answer to Mr Slob on a motion on a very specific matter, namely on ensuring education in the Holocaust in secondary schools. That was an unnecessary motion, because that is simply one of the key objectives that the education community has been rich for years. My group therefore did not have to support this motion. By the way, many other groups did not support them either, because there are already a lot of unnecessary motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u209	Mr Samsom himself set the example of a Jewish Dutchman who indicated that this was a problem and that it could not be discussed. That's what the PVV motion was about. Of course, things can be in the core goals, but if we look at the situation in the Netherlands, but it can also be seen, more broadly, that there is simply shame and sometimes there is fear of raising things. Something must be done about that. The core goals are all wonderful. Of course those things are in there, but it's about what happens in the classes and they need to be supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u210	This was a Spanish teacher. The subject of history does indeed have education in the events of the Second World War. The Holocaust is, of course, specifically mentioned. The motion tabled by Mr Slob in this debate deals precisely with the subject I raised. I am also very keen to support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u211	Mr. Chairman. The good news of this debate is that, in my opinion, there is a great deal of support for the need to keep a close eye on security and, where necessary, to make additional efforts. Parties that didn't call that out in the past are also calling that out now. That's good news. We are going to see if these words will be the case if we can act on our own. I'm sure it is with us. I also have to conclude from this debate that the situation arises that the cabinet is doing a lot and that some parties sometimes want to give the impression that this is not the case. But I see the Counting of the Cabinet very well on that point. In an AO about yesterday's AIVD, Minister Plasterk, who is not here, clearly indicated that cutting the staff of the AIVD happened in the past in the bureaucracy. It didn't happen in the operational impact force. I took a look at what he said about that. It is good to make that clear again. A comment was also made today that what the Minister of V and J indicates about the information on police, priorities and so on is like the butcher who approves his own meat. I'll be honest: I wouldn't go to a butcher who doesn't approve of his own flesh. I don't think that's such a healthy situation. If a butcher doesn't approve of his own flesh, it's probably not very good. Mr Van der Staaij tabled a motion requesting that the AIVD's annual plan be submitted by 1 December. That is a friendly motion for us, but I would like to say that I want to be able to weigh it or that and the responsibilities that some of us elsewhere have are not in each other's way; let me put it this way. I hope that the cabinet will be able to respond to that today or in writing. I'm closing up. We have had several debates. There has been a lot of talk, but I think the essence is that everyone sees the need to be firm on safety and on the things where we can be preventive. The cabinet is taking a lot of action. We, as the supervisory body, will monitor the cabinet to ensure that the measures are implemented. The VVD will do that and I am glad that many parties will do that to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u212	There is a broad majority in favour of a hearing, under conditions that we need to discuss in greater detail; that is what everyone who submits and supports the motion understands. Is the VVD going to help us make something out of it that the Chamber will show even wider that it considers important as an auditor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u213	I'll be honest with you, I'm a little conflicted. The cabinet has indicated that it will carry out a continuous analysis and that it will soon be able to tell us what is coming out of it. In the context of "who controls and controls?" So I think it's up to the cabinet. I'd like to wait and see. In that sense, I find the motion on the early side. A hearing is something we do occasionally. I'm not against that in itself. However, I think that the Chamber should be very careful not to sit on drivers' seats. The Minister is responsible for the information we receive. He stands in front of it and takes it out of his services. I do not want us to appear to be creating some sort of contradiction through hearings. That's what I tasted today at some point. It would be very secretive, as if in confidential conversations the corps manager would have said something different than the minister. That seems to me to be a somewhat unhealthy situation. Then you can say, "Do a hearing right away and we'll be done with it." But that is a contradiction that we as auditors should not want. We address the Minister responsible. However, I am not in a position to believe that hearings should not be allowed. If the Minister gives his consent as politically responsible, that's fine. I would like to say to the Minister that perhaps it would be wise to do so after he has informed us shortly. But it must be done in that order, because I do not want Parliament to sit in the driver's seat. This separation of powers has been well arranged in this country. As far as I am concerned, we also need to maintain it clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u214	The VVD therefore votes in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u215	If Mr Pechtold put the motion to the vote on Tuesday, he would suggest that it should be now. If Mr Pechtold were the first to say 'we are going to make that request after the cabinet has produced that analysis', I think we will support the motion. But if he did that now, he'd be on the early side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u216	I just misinformed you, because as far as I'm concerned, there's just gonna be a vote on Tuesday, unless someone... sorry, tomorrow!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u217	Tuesday, you'll be sitting across from an empty room, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u218	You never know!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u219	I'd like to think about that. I understand the point, but of course it also depends on how long it takes before we get it from the Chamber, because it has to be on the table. I understand the request, but I would like to know more precisely when we will get a response from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u220	From the Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u221	From the Room? I'm turning everything around now. I mean, of course, from the cabinet. There must be progress, and I would like to get an answer from the cabinet first. Then we need to be able to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u222	Mr President, I am not trying to see Mr Buma's suggestion that you should answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u223	If you taste any hesitation in what I'm saying, that's true. My first thought was just to do those hearings. I understand your argument. I want to know how the cabinet looks at it and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u224	...we can make a decision after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u225	...we'll decide after that. How I'm gonna do it, I don't know yet, but I'm gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u226	What a nice democratic process, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u227	Mr. Chairman. The message of the government is: "The security chain is in order. There's plenty of capacity. Go to sleep in peace." If policemen, military officers, the people of the AIVD and prosecutors heard this, they should laugh hard, it wouldn't be so sad. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the entire safety chain is under immense pressure;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has become much more unsafe in recent years due to a growing threat of terrorism;]] [[calls on the government, as soon as possible, to come forward with a delta plan for our national security, which doubles both the budget for the intelligence services and the military police and reverses the cuts in the police,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-297]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u228	My final motion is that it is now easier to buy a kalashnikov than a hamburger. The Amsterdam Police Department is right to complain about this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is inundated with heavy automatic weapons, in particular kalashnikovs;]] [[whereas the Amsterdam Chief of Police Aalbersberg has indicated that arms trafficking has not been high on the national agenda in recent years and that this priority must return;]] [[calls on the Government to make the fight against arms trafficking a top national priority,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29754-298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u229	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps I can first deal with a small matter which remains to be dealt with in connection with the first term of the Chamber, the Van Aartsen issue. Let's get this problem out of the way right away. Mr. Van Aartsen texted me. He says: it was a suggestion from November in the note to the council of The Hague, to get a little more central intelligence about screening and that was followed up by V and J. He is therefore fully served by the Minister for Security and Justice and is very pleased with this. So the point of Van Aartsen is solved again. Then there are a few points left. It might be good to say a few words about the research itself, even if there is everything in the letter. It is not an external investigation, but an internal, administrative analysis of developments and resources. The wording of the contract is contained in the letter sent to the Chamber on 5 February. The ministries organise the relevant information provided by the services and prepare short-term decisions on this matter by the Cabinet. That is precisely what the cabinet has to do: to govern and to take responsibility. In the suspension I had a moment with my colleagues. We all feel a common, high degree of urgency in the debate. I can therefore promise the Chamber, and therefore Mr Buma, that we will speed up further the process of further internal and administrative analysis. I cannot put a date on it yet, but we will try to send that analysis to the Chamber as soon as possible, in the coming period. So he's coming. Then I get to the motions, first of all the motion Pechtold et al., in part No. 290. You can find everything from the letter sent by the cabinet.... I might have chosen the exact wording differently................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Given this letter and given everything that has been discussed in this debate, I consider the motion to support policy. The Roemer motion in part No. 291, with reference to the whole debate we have had. The same applies to the Roemer motion in part No. 292. Then I come to the Van Haersma-Buma c.s. motion, in part No. 293. In my view, the right order is that we now give birth to the analysis and an administrative opinion on it and, if necessary, additional funds. This point was already in the interruption debate between Zijlstra and Buma. Then, of course, the Chamber will discuss that piece. As far as the cabinet is concerned, it is fine if a hearing is organised. We will then instruct our services in such a way that the hearing, if the Chamber so wishes, takes place in public as far as possible and that things that really cannot be done in public, take place in 'a certain committee', as I believe they are called, or 'through a certain channel'. "The right thing to do." I would just like to look at the President of that appropriate something... Well, that could take place there. My request to the author of the motion is to hold it until the cabinet comes forward with its findings. Then we do it in the right order and prevent a hearing even before the cabinet has come up with its verdict. That hearing may then take place after the cabinet has come forward with it. We will do everything we can to keep that hearing in public as much as possible. However, we will also prevent the creation of a separate, secret circuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u230	Thank you for that answer. I would like to put the motion to the vote. If it takes too long, the Chamber can hold the hearing. In this way we keep the direction; I think that is important. However, I have heard the Prime Minister's reply. We have to look at how we are doing with the Minister of Security and Justice, but I am committed to putting the motion to the vote and then holding the debate from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u231	Okay, but then I have to be clear on my part, too. If this motion is put to the vote now, I'll advise against her. I assume that Mr Buma understands that. Again, if he holds the motion, I think we'll agree completely. I see he's taking the risk. We're gonna see what happens. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Slob, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Strictly speaking, therefore, this motion is superfluous, because we are doing everything we are asked to do. Maybe I'll have to be tough; it's an unnecessary motion, so I'm gonna dissuade her. Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Van der Staaij and others, on part No. 295. As Mr Van der Staaij c.s. Meaning that the AIVD's annual plan is in the Chamber before the beginning of the year, I understand this wish and I'm going to try. In that case, I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. I would like to avoid the fact that, before the end of the year, it says here 1 December, but I would like to say that, before the end of the year, a separate document must be sent to the Chamber which states that it'receives insight'. As Mr Van der Staaij c.s. If they want the annual plan to be there before 1 January, we will do our very best and leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u232	I was referring to the public letter about the annual plan that comes every year. The annual plan itself is secret and cannot be handed over to the Chamber in this form, but it is a custom that a kind of summary of the public information is made and sent to the Chamber. The Prime Minister's reasoning is as follows: no new things must be done, but I am asking whether what is already happening can be brought forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u233	Yes. Then it's a public letter following the annual plan. It will not be there before December 1st, but before January 1st. Then it is possible. In the operative part of the motion in part No. 296 says "in its analysis of the safety chain." This is not in the analysis of the safety chain, but if I can read Mr Van Ojik's and Mr Samsom's motion in such a way that I ignore the part 'in her analysis of the safety chain' and that the sentence is 'calls the government to explore' and so on, then I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then that part has to come out, because that is not in the in-depth administrative analysis now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u234	I've been able to talk to my co-subscriber in passing lightning-fast. On his behalf, I can also promise the Prime Minister that we will amend the motion slightly and get those words out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u235	Thank you. With that change, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 297, referring to the debate. I also advise against the motion in part No. 298, not referring to the debate. The motion is about national priorities for the police. There are already a lot of national priorities for the police. This requires a lot of extra reporting. I would therefore advise against this motion, referring to the additional complexity it would create in the light of the system of prioritisation and the reporting that it entails. I therefore advise against the motions on the items Nos. 297 and 298. I believe that we have dealt with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-7.u236	The votes on the motions tabled will take place tomorrow at the beginning of the sitting after the lunch break.
