ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. Speaking time shall be three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last month, a motion by the CDA Group on pot growing policy in the Netherlands was adopted: no room for regulation. The Minister responded in a letter stating that municipalities will comply with this national line. He wrote that no signals are known to him from municipalities which, in spite of national policy, have started or intend to do experiments. Of course, the latter is hardly imaginable, because this week in Heerlen and Maastricht, motions were adopted, so-called anti-Oskammotions, to continue experiments and initiatives to regulate weed cultivation. Municipalities therefore want to carry out research into regulation, but should not go into regulation. Those investigations are therefore wasted taxpayers' money. Is the Minister prepared to take action against this? I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to make use of the possibility for the Crown to suspend or destroy these decisions when local authorities take decisions which are contrary to law or the public interest. I'd like to get a response to that. The CDA Group's approach to research into the experiments with regulated pot growing in cities is crystal clear. We consider this absolutely unacceptable. The argument has always been expressed by the Minister himself. Most of the harvest goes abroad and regulation will not lead to a real solution. In addition to the export argument, acceptance of soft drugs remains an underestimated problem. The CDA Group wants to get rid of the romantic image that some parties continue to paint around this theme. The fact is that Dutch students smoke much more often than their European peers, even though they are not officially allowed to buy and use soft drugs. One in three blowers use soft drugs at school. We know that young people who start smoking at a young age are at greater risk of problems at school, addiction to hard drugs or mental illness. They also often show aggressive or criminal problem behaviour. I'm going back to local policy. The CDA Group calls on the Minister to be less naive about the attitude of municipalities. We hope that the Minister will ensure that the municipalities adhere to the national line. As an example, Rotterdam, a city that was still at the forefront four years ago in the fight against the use of soft drugs. Now there are serious plans on the table for the municipality to grow weed. Quite apart from the doubt as to whether regular users switch to what is commonly referred to as "bucklerweed', healthy weed produced by the municipality in our view does not exist healthy weed. It is much more important for the CDA group that what is not normal is not normal and what we do not want to tell our children. The limits are clear: no regulated growing of weed. However, there are municipalities that afford a certain space. As an example, I give Amsterdam and Utrecht, where experiments have started to grow pot myself. I call The Tree Of Life Cannabis Social Club Amsterdam. In Utrecht, the municipality facilitates the Social Cannabis Club Domstad. The CDA thinks it's really weird, considering the country line. I quote a quote from a spokesman of the Ministry of Security and Justice of December 2014, who said the following on behalf of Minister Opstelten: it cannot be done in the eyes of the Minister; according to international rules, local authorities will have to act as soon as it is known where the club grows the weed. Why is this not happening and the municipalities of Amsterdam and Utrecht facilitate these clubs, both financially and by not maintaining them? What's the Minister gonna do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u3	I have two questions. Mr Oskam comes up with very clear figures on exports. He also knows that the research carried out mentions a percentage of the 30 to early 90s. That's a very wide range, I'd say. Where does Mr Oskam base the picture that most of the weed for export is grown in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u4	The Netherlands is a small country. There are too many coffeeshops in our view, but given the rest of the world, the size is quite small. Those coffeeshops are only taking a limited amount. If you want to make a good living from that, you'll have to produce a lot. If you're gonna get out of the cost, you're gonna have to have a hell of a supply. Who knows exactly where the percentage is, whether it's closer to 30 or closer to 90? We think it's around 80, as far as we can check it out, but we really can't check it out. That has been investigated before, but we cannot determine it precisely. Looks like a lot of people are going abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u5	The questions in interruptions must be brief and so must the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u6	How does it start to look, because Mr. Oskam says "it looks like it." So it's not a fact. Then why is it that the Tax Administration is not able to estimate at all what soft drugs are sold in the coffee shops? That should be related to the production, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u7	Mrs Berndsen knows the answer, of course, because she herself comes from the police. The police don't know. The IRS doesn't know. The FIOD doesn't know. The minister doesn't know. I don't know, and Mrs Berndsen doesn't know. That's the problem. It's illegal, and because it's illegal, you don't know exactly how it goes. Of course, we can make an estimate of what it costs, what can be converted into the coffee shops here and what it takes to keep such an illegal weed farm productive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u8	Well, I guess I'd better join this ritual dance. The motion in Heerlen actually calls for the Hague dictatorship of the Oskam motion to be countered. That motion was supported by the CDA there. So once again the question to the colleague of the CDA: how should I interpret this? How does he see local colleagues from his party who say that they want to work on this dossier in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u9	I hear the Minister say he'd like to know that, too. First of all, of course, I would very much like to do that dance with Mrs Rebel. That's no problem at all. Look, people are thinking differently, and everyone has their own responsibility. I also speak to CDA mayors who say that this is what we in the municipality want. However, it is not about what everyone always wants. Other figures are also available, from people who say: 65% of the CDA voters want this. If I ask these people if they want a coffee shop in the street or if they want their kids to smoke, they say, "No, we don't want that." It's always multi-interpretable. If the CDA group in Heerlen votes in favour, then they have their own consideration. The balance that the CDA Group is making here is that we absolutely do not want it. I think I've always been very clear about that, and I always will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u10	Then I wonder what you will say to your local CDA colleagues in Heerlen next. Same thing you're saying here now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u11	I have no need to call the CDA in Heerlen to take a different view. That's their own consideration. They are there in Heerlen. The same applies to the CDA in Maastricht. Therein they shall make their own reckoning. We are making the national assessment here, and it is negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u12	If I listen carefully to Mr Oskam's speech, he does not argue that the CDA groups in the country should be allowed to make a different assessment. No, Mr Oskam actually states in his motion, but also in his speech that he simply wants to silence his own groups in the country. They must not do research, they must not take initiatives. Is that what the CDA wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u13	Mrs Kooiman explains it very well, but of course I did not say it that way, and I certainly did not mean it that way. It is not my job to silence CDA groups in the country. I am proclaiming the national position here. I think it is a shame that we in the Chamber talk very often about investigations. Mrs Hilkens of the Labour Party started that at the time; she wanted to investigate. Then the Minister said: if you want to investigate, you should do that, but whatever comes out of it, we are not going to change the policy. I would like to hear from the Minister in a moment whether it still is, but I assume it is. Then it is a shame to invest money every time in investigations of this kind, while at least the government does not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u14	I do not understand that, because it is CDA groups that want to do this, who want to do the research, who may also want to experiment with the regulation of weed cultivation. I see nothing but a Lower Parliamentary Group that silences its own departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u15	Mrs Kooiman may say that, but I think this applies to all parties. I'm not gonna keep a secret about that either. There are also people who are tabling resolutions at the CDA Congress to make this possible. There are certainly people in our party who are in favour of this, but we have spoken and voted on this in a democratic way in the party, and this is the CDA's line. If local groups do this differently, it is their own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u16	Would you allow me to present a short hypothesis on my part?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u17	If that's short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u18	Yeah, that can be short. In connection with this, I would like to put a question to Mr Oskam. If Mr Oskam is so concerned about developments in the country in the field of pot growing and the use of weed, and if those developments in the country are triggered by activities initiated by Mr Oskam himself from this Chamber, would it not be helpful if he were to be more prudent in the coming period in bringing forward all kinds of motions in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u19	I would have seen this question coming. I think so. A new minister has taken office. We would like to know whether this minister is continuing the policy of the previous minister. As I said, Mrs Hilkens initiated a study last year or two years ago to see how much pot growing was possible by municipalities. There is a call from the Netherlands, also from the coffee shop owners, to do so. It is therefore good to keep an interim assessment of the state of play. I am very pleased that this Minister has said that it is not going to happen under my direction. I think the motion has been very prudent. It has been submitted at the right time, also to check the current state of affairs. I think this is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u20	Mr. Chairman. The starting point of Dutch drug policy is the distinction between hard drugs and soft drugs in the Opium Act. Soft drugs include cannabis or hemp, commonly referred to as "weed." The risk of soft drugs to public health is less assessed, which means that soft drugs have a less severe criminal environment than hard drugs. But let us be clear: hemp cultivation is contrary to Article 3 of the Opium Act. In the Netherlands there is a coffee shop policy which means that for hemp special outlets exist in the form of coffee shops where under strict conditions the sale of soft drugs is tolerated. The conditions are the so-called AHOJG criteria. These include: no posters and therefore no advertising, no sales of hard drugs, no nuisance, no sales to young people and a small quantity of hemp as stock. Since March 1st of this year we have the new article 11a of the Opium Act. That Article prohibits the carrying out of acts to prepare or facilitate illegal hemp cultivation when it is carried out on a professional or commercial basis or on a large scale. This means, for example, that growshops are in breach of the law and that landlords of buildings with hemp farms are punishable. In March of this year, the police also raided 55 growshops in the context of this new article of law. As far as my group is concerned, this is a good start. However, one point of attention is that the police do not check everywhere that growshops comply with the new article of law. The police in Zeeland-West-Brabant already carried out 30 checks and seized cases at 6 growshops. In The Hague 24 growshops were visited, but in North Netherlands and Rotterdam the counter is at zero. What is the Minister going to do about this inequality? We don't want waterbed effect, do we? Former Minister Opstelten wrote in a letter to the Chamber that WODC research shows that an estimated 78% to 91% of hemp grown here crosses the border, going abroad. However, the researchers indicated that the former Minister had drawn his own conclusion from that research, because the researchers' conclusion was that we do not know the percentage. How does the current Minister feel about this? What conclusion does he draw from this report? Can he say anything more than an educated guess? More and more municipalities are calling for official regulation of hemp cultivation. What is the Minister going to do to make sure that these hippie communities, I'll just call them, obey the law? Former Minister Opstelten promised the Chamber a few months ago to keep course. This does not fit in with the policy that municipalities have of their own. As far as my group is concerned, the problems surrounding the current policy of tolerance are not solved by having municipalities grow hemp themselves. I refer only to the report of the Van der Donk Committee, from already 2009, which says: "In the world of the cannabis trade, coffeeshops have only become a modest part. As a result, coffeeshop policy can only have a modest impact on the production of cannabis and the related organised crime." Producing, possessing and using has not in the past been criminalised in vain for the protection of public health and for the fight against crime. As far as my group is concerned, these arguments still apply. My group supports action and not regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u21	Mr. Chairman. It was a remarkable announcement in the NRC of 11 April. The headline was "Minister twisted facts about pot growing." In an extensive letter, the Minister tries to refute this. But one sentence is striking. "Research into illegal markets, as well as research into all illegal phenomena, is accompanied by uncertainties." We have heard Mr Oskam say this as well. Let me quote again: This is a fact of public knowledge. It is precisely this sentence that makes it necessary to take all the assurances of this minister, pardon the minister's predecessor, with a large grain of salt. That's what we call facts twisting or cherrypicking. So I ask this minister in which letters the assumptions are incorrect. How many debates have there been inaccuracies or misconceptions? Let me give you an example of the latter, namely the 'no' of the cabinet on the local experiments with pot growing. Mayors and municipal councils have been dismissed on the basis of bullshit claims about export figures and international treaties. If the cabinet wants to revise its rejection, I'll ask the minister. Experiments with regulated weed cultivation are possible. We see it happening in the US, Uruguay, Spain and Portugal. And there are many more experiments. Why does this minister also hold on so rigidly to the assumption that it can't? On what basis does this minister see no room for the experiments submitted by Dutch directors? D66 wants the Minister to have the old and new plans for regulated weed growing evaluated by an independent committee as soon as possible. Is the cabinet prepared to do this? Within the coalition also within the VVD is division, such as at bed, bath and bread. We hear a different VVD sound on a local level. In Groningen, Venlo, Amsterdam, Dordrecht, Tilburg and Eindhoven, from north to south, from large to small municipalities and even in Noord-Brabant where weed cultivation is really core business, the local VVD supports initiatives for regulated weed cultivation. Why does the Minister leave the mayors, aldermen and councilmen in the cold? The room for local experiments is there, but what is lacking is the political will. I see that my speaking time is running short. I'm skipping a piece of my text. Victims of house fires, residents experiencing nuisances and companies losing money through illegal hemp cultivation; people are entitled to effective measures and to effective solutions. The key to the solution lies with the coalition of PvdA and VVD. Does this VVD minister, his party mates and his coalition partner, local directors, give almost half of this Chamber and even more importantly, a majority of society a solution by allowing local experiments with weed cultivation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u22	I do not really have a question for Mr Berndsen, but I would like to make a comment. I heard the beautiful Venlo passing by. Since I live there, I also read the local magazines. It says that Venlo has been using the principle of one strike you're out since 2010. This means that hemp farms in farmhouses lock the door immediately. I cannot fully reconcile this with what Mr Berndsen said, namely that Venlo is generous in an attempt to regulate weed cultivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u23	I can answer Mrs Helder that Venlo has signed the Joint Regulation manifesto.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u24	Yeah, but that's different from what I just meant. Venlo has been fighting successfully for years. So I can't put that all side by side. Anyway, I was looking for this explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u25	Mrs Berndsen stressed the importance of the correct figures and the correct information on the basis of which we should implement the policy. She also mentioned the number of fires caused by hemp growing. D66 shields that one in four fires is caused by hemp cultivation and that it would all be solved if you regulated that and allowed weed cultivation. I have here a statement from the Association of Insurance Companies, which states that 1 in 50 fires can be traced back to hemp cultivation. Speaking about correct figures and correct information also applies to D66 when it comes to burning downtown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u26	Yeah, I'm talking about burning in the big cities. The same Association of Insurance Companies indicates that one in four fires are related to hemp cultivation. In the big cities, Mr Segers. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u27	I will give the message to Mrs Berndsen in a moment. It is recognised that hemp farms cause considerable fire damage, but it is 1 in 50. That's the figure. In every press release of D66 and every presentation of a new plan to make weed even more accessible, D66 shields with the fact that one in four fires would result in hemp growing. That's a careless way of dealing with facts. If Mrs Berndsen tells others to do so, she has to keep to it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u28	Mr Segers might listen very carefully, because I say that it is one in four fires in the big cities. And 1 in 50 is an average in the Netherlands. Those are the figures, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u29	D66 and Mrs Berndsen promote the use of weed. They'd prefer to legalize everything. What I am so curious about, however, is whether there really is healthy weed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u30	Propagate? What's propagating? I'm not promoting anything. I only want to serve public health by ensuring that people know what they are buying and what they are using and that they are grown properly, without adding iron filings or using pesticides and growth gears. People use it, Mr. Oskam. People also use alcohol. The hypocrisy of the CDA is that it doesn't want to ban hard drug alcohol, but soft drug use does. Bans do not achieve anything in the context of public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u31	Mrs Berndsen is concerned with public health. My question was whether there is any healthy weed. I didn't get an answer to that. I understand that the whole purpose of this game is for it to be regulated and that the THC content can be controlled, whatever that may be, but my question remains whether there is healthy weed, even if the THC content can be kept in the claw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u32	Yes, Mr Oskam, it exists, namely medicinal weed, which is of great benefit to many patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u33	Mr. Chairman. It's really crazy that I have to explain to the CDA and the VVD tonight that they're completely lost. The CDA always stands for the autonomy of municipalities, but submits a motion that completely breaks down the autonomy of municipalities. They themselves should not make plans to regulate pot in the interests of public health and the fight against crime. It is also thanks to the VVD that more and more criminals are created by criminalising the back door and organised crime is free to go. Locally the VVD still seems to have its liberal ideas and pulls them together with the SP and others to regulate weed through the back door, but unfortunately that stays out in the Lower House. I'm sorry to hear that. I admit that the SP always looks first at the importance for public health and then at what it costs. At the VVD they often find the housekeeping book a little more important. But here seems to be a beautiful win-win situation. After all, if you regulate the back door, you'll have about 460 million left. Then the VVD can finally do what it has promised, namely not to cut back on safety. It may be clear where the SP is located. The SP is for municipal autonomy, against crime, against organised crime, for the effective use of police officers, for public health and therefore for regulating weed cultivation. I'd like to ask the Minister some questions. Municipalities are allowed to make plans about regulating pot trade. The Minister doesn't want to say that all these officials, all these city council members, all these mayors and aldermen have very good initiatives and plans, but he's going to say, well, you can make plans, but they're going to disappear in the trash can, right? Will the Minister take the municipalities seriously and, if so, what will he do with their plans to at least allow a temporary experiment? I come to another problem, which was raised by sensible people in the B and W College of Amsterdam, but which is also encountered in Haarlem. I'm referring to the supply to coffee shops. One is looking for an opportunity to take care of the supply without the people who do so being criminalized equally. Is the Minister prepared to talk to municipalities like Amsterdam and Haarlem, municipalities where people actively think about this and plan for it? Last week we read the report that the police and the D.A. are going to grow pot themselves with seeds seized at growshops. Can the Minister say on what basis the seeds were confiscated? Weed growing is forbidden. On what basis are police and prosecutors allowed to grow? There has indeed been selective shopping in the WODC research report; that is what the spokeswoman of D66 rightly said. One of the problems faced by the researchers of the WODC is the fact that it is difficult to demonstrate what the domestic use of weed is. Can the Minister tell us if he wants to have an investigation, or at least at coffee shops, to check how much weed trade there is, so that we can find out how much weed is used in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u34	Mr. Chairman. "Drugs is the fungus in our society," said the foreman of the Task Force Brabant Zeeland. The solution is not that the municipalities will grow the fungus under their own management. That does not do justice to the seriousness of the case. Most of the weed produced in the Netherlands is intended for export. Weed cultivation is a combination of the upper world and the underworld. The underworld undermines authority, undermines the authority of mayors. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, there is therefore no room for government weed. But then what? How can we help local drivers? The cabinet is clear. The letter sent to the Chamber on this matter states that growing pot is a criminal offence, that weed preparation is a criminal offence and that the cabinet does not want to change it. That's fine. I do have a number of questions about the further approach. First of all, I would like to stress the importance of prevention. What role does the Minister see for himself in this regard? There is always concern about the capacity of the police, especially in the province of Brabant, for example. Is that capacity enough? Isn't one hole filled with another? Meanwhile, the Public Prosecutor speaks very clear language. That says: we are in full swing against pot growing and we do not believe in a naive view of drugs. In doing so, I would like to ask whether mayors are supported if it is visible that their authority is being undermined. So how is the mayor's position supported by the cabinet? Then there's the Task Force Brabant. The mayor of Tilburg said, "Our harder approach pays off." Shouldn't that be intensified? Isn't that an approach for other provinces, too? Finally, I come to the revenue from the picking-up legislation. Wouldn't it be a good thing to use that money to compensate for drug waste? Bystanders, farmers, nature managers, individuals themselves must cough up the costs of disposing of dumped drug waste. Is it not fair to use the proceeds of picking them up? Shouldn't that be examined and considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u35	Madam President. The CDA Group has already called for a debate six months ago on the supposed intention of municipalities to start trials on regulated weed cultivation. We are a few months away and have had a number of debates in the Chamber. In this context, colleagues always used the option of tabling motions and calling for attention to be paid to this issue and to highlight one side or the other. In the meantime I understand that there were even anti-Oskam emotions in the south of the country. All things being observed, I must honestly tell you that I think this is a repetition of moves. In that respect, I don't think it's that crazy. I do not know exactly what debate it was during, but I have already heard the Minister explicitly say that he was not aware that some municipalities actually wanted to experiment. Perhaps something is happening in the sphere of thought formation, but actually experimenting and thus acting contrary to the Opium Act, because that would be it, does not play at all. Let me take this opportunity and ask the Minister once again whether it is true that some municipalities are going to act in violation of the Opium Act and make plans for experiments with weed cultivation. While I am standing here, I also find it interesting to hear from the Minister what is happening in our neighbouring countries, particularly Belgium. I understand that the government is seeking a total ban on weed. It seems to me that this can have an effect on our country, especially on the southern municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u36	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u37	Excuse me, yes, I have to shut up for a moment, because Mr. Oskam is here. I'll finish it soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u38	That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u39	The VVD stands for the tolerance policy we have, although I can see that this sometimes results in complications. I'm not gonna close my eyes to that. The risks and objections associated with another step have not yet been resolved for me alone. I'm really not ready for that. That is why I think it is very sensible that we should stick to the policy of tolerance. Our position is unchanged. Moreover, I do not have the impression at all that the reason why this debate has been requested really arises.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u40	Mr Oskam, I give you an opportunity to post your second and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u41	That's good. There is often talk in the Chamber, but of course also in the country, about the fact that they want to do so. I just mentioned the Social Cannabis Club Domstad in Utrecht and The Tree of Life in Amsterdam. We cannot deny that the city council in Heerlen has also adopted motions. The same thing happened in Maastricht this week. That is why it is very good that we are having this debate this week. I would say to the spokesperson of the VVD: this is real life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u42	I am not really asked a question, but I can answer it briefly. I note that Mr Oskam himself states that, following a motion he has tabled here, all kinds of municipalities are being triggered to take action in the country. I stand here and therefore tell him what the position of the VVD is. I don't make a secret of that at all. The VVD opts for the tolerance policy. Of this, Mr Oskam can find anything, but that is what the VVD does. I don't make a secret of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u43	Mr Van Oosten referred just now to the possible changes in Belgium. Speaking of experiments, I'd like to do a little thought experiment. Suppose these changes occur, it is conceivable that regulation of cultivation for users of cannabis in the Netherlands by means of the resident criterion prevents nuisance from Belgium. People from Belgium simply can't access it, while you can see the use and supply of Dutch coffeeshops. What has Mr Van Oost to say about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u44	It's very simple. A government has taken office in Belgium which intends to announce a total ban on weed. At least that's the most recent information I have. The Minister undoubtedly has good contacts with his colleague there, so I ask him to what extent this information is correct. I see things coming towards me. Also in Belgium there are people who want a joint, if I may put it that way. Maybe it's not the right term, but well, there are people there who use a joint. If there is a ban in Belgium, they might even get it in the Netherlands. I don't know. Then there is all the more reason to take a very critical look at the effects that this has and to stick to the policies we have designed in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u45	I can tell Mr van Oosten, perhaps he should also go and see that the nuisance from neighbouring countries is already there, despite the fact that it may not yet be completely prohibited there. But it's not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u46	I think so. Mrs Rebel has a thought experiment with me: what if the Belgian Government comes to a decision? I take as my starting point the information that the Belgian Government is working towards a total ban on weed. I ask the Minister the very normal and logical question, which is also somewhat in line with the questions Mrs Rebel is trying to ask me every time, to tell us what the latest state of affairs in Belgium is. I think that's very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u47	Mrs Rebel, you may clarify your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u48	I asked Mr Van Oosten the following question. Let's take a moment to experiment on our thoughts. If you regulate, you have a very clear picture of the supply to the coffee shops for Dutch users with the resident criterion. That doesn't bother the foreigners at all. By the way, that nuisance is already there. That's my question. What does Mr Van Oosten see in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u49	I don't see anything in that at the moment. I note that there are risks coming to us when we move from the tolerance policy to the regulation of weed cultivation, exactly what Mrs Rebel has in mind in her heartest wishes. I see problems coming towards us that have not been resolved now. I may see drug tourism coming at us, which I would prefer not to, because that could lead to nuisance. I also see conflict with treaties. We have just received a letter from the Minister. I say one thing: what I won't let happen is that the Netherlands will eventually become the drug exporter in Europe. These very important risks and problems I foresee. That is why I am in favour of the policy of tolerance. I think that this is very well justified and a very sensible position at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u50	I find it so amazing that we in The Hague seem to have a kind of reality of our own. It is sometimes referred to as the Haagse kaesstolp. How come there are so many municipal groups, sometimes even in municipalities where the VVD takes the lead, as in Eindhoven, which want to regulate and even legalize? That's where the problems arise. That's where people want to solve the problems. How come this doesn't get through to groups like the CDA and the VVD? They leave their local drivers in the cold, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u51	You know, I also speak to local administrators who say exactly the opposite of what Mrs Berndsen is referring to. I do not deny that this issue lives across political parties. Nor do I deny that there are Members in the party who feel differently about the subject that is being discussed in some way within my group. This is the case with more subjects. It's called democracy and party democracy. I now support my group's position. I can't be clearer about it than I am now. The VVD opts for the tolerance policy and sees all kinds of risks and concerns coming to it. I just mentioned it in a nutshell. In this way, we can ask the Minister if I miss a few more risks. Fine, I'd love to hear that. But I only listed them for a moment. Mrs Berndsen, as responsible politician of a very responsible party in her own right, should not I allow her to close her eyes to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u52	I do not close my eyes to figures such as 70%, as was the case yesterday, of the inhabitants of this country who say: we are in favour of regulation, we are tired of the nuisance, we want it to be properly arranged. A majority of VVD voters agree. Does the VVD Group in the Lower House not close its eyes to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u53	I just indicated that one of the threats I see coming to me is that the Netherlands will become the drug exporter within Europe or even outside. Don't let the Netherlands become that. If you ask that question, I think a lot of people will say that they don't want to. So it is also very dependent on the kind of question that is being asked. I don't dispute that there are people who think otherwise. I don't dispute that. I don't make a secret of that either. But Mrs Berndsen now asks me what I stand for, in my responsibility as a parliamentarians and member of the VVD Group. I say: I stand for the policy of tolerance as it currently exists in this country, and that is what I am defending.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u54	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bontes on behalf of the Bontes/Van Klaveren Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u55	Mr. Chairman. The government shouldn't be a drug dealer. There should be no room for municipal weed. We need to enforce the current law. By regulating, neither illegal plantations nor organised crime will disappear. Part of the growing of weed is exported. The regulation of weed cultivation does not therefore provide a solution. Illegal production continues, even if a product is legal. Look at the illegal cigarette trade: two weeks ago, KPMG's investigation showed that the Netherlands is also a large producer country of illegal cigarettes in addition to a transit country. In the case of drugs, it will be. Then I come to the problem of guarding the plantations. How do the advocates of regulating actually see that coming? Is the police gonna take on this job? If top criminals are interested in raiding Brink's, then so are hemp plantations. It's a good thing the minister won't accept this municipality weed. If municipalities continue, the prosecution must take action against these offences. The Minister can also do more. He needs to increase his police capacity. Organised crime must be tackled hard everywhere. This applies not only in Limburg, but throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u56	Mr. Chairman. I'll close the ritual dance of the Chamber on this file tonight. We have heard them all come again: all the arguments of the parties, and all the pros and cons. There were also the Oskam motion and the Oskam anti-motions from the south of the country. Mr Van Oosten and I agreed once on the question: why now this debate? What's the occasion? What new arguments are we going to hear? I have to say, I haven't heard so much news today. Perhaps the Minister is going to tell us something new, but frankly, my expectations are not high. We're at an impasse. We're going in circles, we can make a ceasefire, but that doesn't help local governments, local mayors and local citizens. They will continue to face the consequences of current policies, namely nuisance and insecurity. So that doesn't get us much further. Recently I called with former Senator Guusje ter Horst to leave the trenches, to see if we can see through experiments if there is anything that works and with which we could combat the nuisance and insecurity that arises locally. There are a number of hippie communities that want to do this. Let's give these hippie communities a chance. If it doesn't work, then my party is willing to admit that it doesn't work and that we have to move on to something else. Here again the appeal to colleagues across the street, in their trenches: think with us, and let's see if anything comes out. I'd like to use this moment to raise something that concerns me. Don't you also have a responsibility for quality control as a receptive government? I would like to ask the Minister that question. My party thinks it is actually irresponsible for us to allow a product to exist on the market where there is no form of control. I believe that a government is responsible for the safety of its citizens, but also for public health. I'd like to hear a reaction to that. I have another hand to the Minister, should he surprise us today and still consider allowing the experiments. For the coffee shops with which this could be done, the Zwijndrecht model would be very suitable. I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Kooiman of the SP. We'll table a motion on that. Let's close the prom tonight. I see someone else wants to dance. The current situation is not working. We're not gonna figure it out tonight, either. The current situation poses major health risks. All parties should take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u57	Let's see if Mr Van Oosten makes a little dance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u58	I would like to ask Mrs Rebel a short question. I read a message in the media, in which Mrs. Rebel reflects on her contribution tonight. It states that particular controls should be carried out on pesticides. Is that right? Is that what she wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u59	Pesticides and all kinds of growth-accelerating agents. With the rare samples we find, those resources are on it. That's right. By the way, I am not the only doctor who has argued for this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u60	To what extent do you think that the eye should focus not only on the biological nature, but also on the THC level and the fading standards between soft and hard drugs? Should this not be addressed rather than the question of whether pesticides have been used?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u61	I understand Mr Oosten's question. That is another point that we need to discuss again, because it is also in the coalition agreement. What matters to me now is all that's on the pot and doesn't belong there. Of course, we also need to look at what's in the pot, but we may differ on what exactly that should look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u62	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u63	Mr. Chairman. A number of Members have said that this debate is a ritual dance, that there is a repetition of moves and that there would be no news. As Minister of Security and Justice, I cannot resist reading news anyway. In any case, I want to ensure that there is news in this debate. Today it has become known that the special team operating in the south of the Netherlands, the task force, has since October carried out more than 170 actions against drug crime. A total of 149 people were arrested. 200,000 pills, 60,000 liters of chemicals and 115,000 hemp plants have been seized. The team consists of 125 additional police officers and 15 members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The team was sent by my predecessor to the south of the Netherlands to stop drug crime. This happens in particular in North Brabant, Limburg and Zeeland. I would remind the House that this extra effort was needed when it became clear that organised crime in the South of the Netherlands needed to be tackled more firmly than it already did. I didn't want to keep this news in the Chamber. The Dutch drug policy, in particular the Dutch soft drug policy, is aimed at protecting public health. As part of this, we have found that the current policy of tolerance for coffee shops in the Netherlands works well in itself, but that it is necessary to reduce and manage the coffee shops, so that the attraction of drug tourists is reduced, if not prevented, the nuisance is reduced and organised hemp crime can be combated as hard as possible. In the Chamber, I can see a majority for that policy. At the same time, I remember from my previous office debates in the Chamber where the dividing lines were very nice. One of the members of the Chamber said at that time: there are parties for weed, there are parties against weed and there are parties for the tolerance policy. After listening to the contributions of the members of the Chamber this evening, I note that there has not been much change in this respect. That does not mean that I do not enjoy this debate; I like it and I also appreciate how the principles and ideological backgrounds of the various parties come up nicely. I'll start with a general point about the experiments. Then I will say a few words about the weed investigations and the question of whether there would have been a distortion of facts. I shall then turn to the individual comments made by the various Members. First of all, I note that there is no difference between me and the mayors about the fact that things like illegal hemp growing, criminal networks that deal with this and nuisance in municipalities are problems that deserve our full attention and need to be tackled vigorously. However, like my predecessor, I disagree with some municipalities on the solution to these problems. Regulation of cultivation for coffeeshops is not the solution. Legally this is not possible, because the international drug treaties do not give room for this. Contrary to what Mrs Berndsen said, the research of Radboud University, carried out at the request of the Chamber, has made it clear that regulation is not allowed in the international drug treaties. In addition, regulation or legalization will not solve the problems, because most of the weed is exported. Ultimately, what percentage is being exported is not so relevant; the point is that so many hemp farms are being rolled up that it is impossible for them all to work for the internal market. Moreover, if the latter were the case, prices would have risen enormously in recent months or years. Although there is an increase in prices, it is so small that it cannot be sustained that the 115 000 hemp plants which have already been removed in the south of the Netherlands alone are intended for the national market, and in fact hundreds or perhaps thousands of them are intended for the national market. There must therefore be exports. How big it is, I don't know. This is an illegal activity, of which we cannot keep up with figures, but on the basis of what the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office can establish, there is a substantial export production in the Netherlands. That's a big problem. As I said in the previous debate, which led to the famous Oskam motion, I am aware that there are proposals or proposals in different cities about the form that could be regulated. I also said in that previous debate that I am not opposed to these investigations. I'm fine with that. As Mr Oskam said, even in the CDA, municipal groups may have different ideas than the national CDA group. Mr Oskam literally said: there is a change of heart. I think this is also very nicely applicable to the Chamber. Everyone has their own responsibility and I will also assume my responsibility as Minister of Security and Justice, responsible for the Public Prosecutor's Office and the National Police. Everyone has to comply with the law, and the same applies to municipalities. They too will have to comply with the law. I also know that all the mayors I have spoken to and whomever my predecessor has spoken to will abide by that law. This means that it is not possible, at the present state of the law, to conduct experiments with regulated or legalized weed cultivation in the context of a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u64	If the Minister says that the mayors say they want to comply with the law, then my question is whether this also applies to the population criterion. Is that gonna be maintained, too? Do the mayors agree with the minister on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u65	Some months ago, a motion was adopted in this Chamber in which my predecessor, or perhaps I myself, was asked to discuss it with the mayors, in particular the mayors of those municipalities which have not yet actively taken up the resident criterion. I'm in the middle of these conversations in accordance with the Chamber's request. As a matter of fact, I fed another one this afternoon. That was with a municipality which seemed to have not included the resident criterion in the policy but which I found out this afternoon. I have a commitment from another municipality that it will be included. I am still talking about two or three municipalities in this House in order to carry out that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u66	Talking is one thing, but taking steps is two. Is there any prospect that all municipalities will enforce the law on this point and comply with the criterion as laid down and agreed upon? Is there any prospect that a municipality such as Amsterdam will maintain that criterion in the foreseeable future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u67	I think Mr Segers knows as well as I do how the municipality of Amsterdam has acted on this issue. She acknowledges that she will maintain the resident criterion. By my predecessor, it was agreed with this municipality that it will initially achieve a huge improvement in the number of coffee shops. Amsterdam is also working on this at the moment. I am talking regularly with the Mayor of Amsterdam about the progress of this, also in view of the motion put forward in this Chamber on the maintenance of the resident criterion. As far as enforcement is concerned, we have opted for a system in which the local triangle determines the prioritisation. At the same time, I am in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office on the fight against crime in general. So along those lines, they pick it up. I have promised the Chamber that once I have had the conversations with the mayors, I will inform her about it. I will, and I will take this aspect into account. I also note that it is clear that there is a great deal of support in society for combating crime and nuisance in relation to hemp growing by means of a common integrated approach involving all the instruments available for that purpose. I read the article the NRC published about the so-called weed investigations. I sent a letter on this matter to the Chamber on 28 April last in which, by suggestion made by the NRC, I indicated my reaction to it. Members who have asked specific questions about it can read the answers in that letter. To sum up, it says in that letter that there is no question of my predecessor distorting facts and that all investigations commissioned by my department have, of course, been sent to the Chamber and can be read for everyone, including the Members of Parliament. I have already said that it is an estimate of exports. The figures vary. One study speaks of 30%, as Mrs Berndsen pointed out. Others estimate that it could be between 80% and 90%. I am not going to go along with that and I am just saying that there are exports. This is evident, as I said, from the price that is not rising even though we have now rolled up more hemp farms than ever before. In this respect, we can only conclude that there is no question of distorting the facts, let alone concealing the facts, because all these facts have simply been put on the table here. I come to the initiatives of municipalities with regard to cultivation. I have already made the general point. Mr. Oskam asked why cities like Utrecht and Amsterdam facilitate cannabis social clubs and do not act against them. A cannabis social club is not permitted under both international and national law. This is also apparent from research carried out by the Nijmegen researchers to which I referred earlier. The Public Prosecutor's Office in Amsterdam supports this view. This has already been made public in a press release on 12 February. If a growing site of such a social club becomes known, the Public Prosecutor will act. This location is currently unknown and therefore cannot be enforced. I have just looked at the website of one of the clubs Mr Oskam talked about. This is explicitly said: we are looking for a place to grow. So whether or not there is any cultivation is perhaps less clear than the impression that one knows how to create. In response to the city council, the College of Mayors and aldermen in Amsterdam has said that it will start a lobby towards the Empire to enable cannabis social clubs. I can confirm that. Mayor Van der Laan has already addressed me once. I gave him the same answer I gave to the Chamber now. I have no signals that in the municipality of Utrecht a cannabis social club hemp would be grown. If those signals were there, that could be a reason for enforcement. In this context, Mrs Berndsen asked if I would be prepared to submit the plans of municipalities to an independent committee. As far as the legal aspect is concerned, this has already been done in the Van Kempen report, which the Chamber knows. To this end, a comprehensive analysis has been made of all the arguments that municipalities have and have used to underpin their plans. I would point out that the Chamber has asked my predecessor to bring all these plans together. That's what happened. The Chamber has been informed of this. In accordance with the request of the Chamber, I believe that this was in particular a request from the PvdA Group, he spoke to the municipalities that have these plans. In this respect, I do not need an independent committee because the law does not allow this and there is no room for such experiments at international level. In this context, Mrs Kooiman has asked whether I am prepared to allow a temporary experiment with cultivation. I very much appreciate her asking that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u68	Indeed, Van Kempen has investigated whether or not it would be possible under the international treaties, but the Minister knows as well as I do that there are many professors, including Professor Brouwer, who have a very different view. On the same grounds on which we now stand the front door, you can also, on the basis of international treaties, arrange the back door. Van Kempen's view is therefore one view, but there are several views on it. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u69	As a minister, it is always a bit difficult to comment on scientists who express opinions on these issues. As a Member of Parliament, I have, moreover, carefully examined and analysed Mr Brouwer's views and ideas. At the time, I found it difficult to link the arguments to the conclusion drawn by Professor Brouwer. I had e-mail contact with him about this as a Member of Parliament at the time. We didn't agree. I too could hardly imagine that Professor Brouwer's arguments led to the conclusion he drew. As a minister, it is difficult to take positions on this, but as a Member of Parliament, I found it difficult to reconcile.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u70	What you found as a MP now a little extrapolating to your ministry I find on the edge. I would like to stress how the Minister looks at other views; let me not mention names. There are different views in this country, of professors who have all studied international law. Then why isn't the Minister open to listening to these other professors? Now let an independent committee look at these experiments again, not a professor who says in advance that it is not possible, but also a professor who says in advance that he or she thinks it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u71	But that would mean that you'd get the other investigation over and over again after one investigation. In a few moments we will have an investigation into each individual professor who takes a stand on weed cultivation. That's not supposed to happen. We have asked a renowned university, Radboud University, through the WODC, to carry out, in the usual way, as experts in this field, an investigation into the question that the Chamber has asked my predecessor: can we experiment with weed cultivation on the basis of the international treaties? There comes a clasp-and-ready answer, namely: that cannot be done. Then you can say we need to find another professor who'll find something else. At least it's not for me to do that. As I said, Mrs Kooiman asked whether I was prepared to allow a temporary experiment with cultivation. As I said, I very much appreciate Mrs Kooiman's question, particularly because I have the opportunity to answer it. That answer is no. Because, as I have already said, I do not think that this is a solution to the problem, because the large-scale illegal cultivation of hemp would continue. In that context, Mr Oskam asked a question that was a bit of a repetition of the previous debate we had on this subject. He said that municipalities spend taxpayers' money doing research and financing their thinking and asked the minister to take action against it. I said in that earlier debate that I would not, because exactly the same argument that Mr Oskam maintained applies here too. It is a local authority's own responsibility to spend their taxpayers' money the way they want it to be. It is the city council to which then has to be held accountable. For the rest, municipalities must also comply with the law. Do you act as municipalities? I give the same answer that my predecessor has given several times, both in writing and orally. There is no doubt that the Public Prosecutor's Office considers that there is also no room within the current legislation to grow as a municipality and that it will maintain it if that situation arises. That is why I have answered Mr Oskam's question. Mrs Berndsen has actually asked the same question, namely whether the Minister is prepared to allow experiments and solutions. As I said, I don't see any room for that. Nor do I see that these experiments solve the problem we have with criminal illegal hemp cultivation. Mrs Kooiman has asked if I am prepared to have talks in Amsterdam and Haarlem about the supply of coffeeshops. I am always in conversation with municipalities about soft drugs policy and, above all, about the problems of nuisance and crime. But my position on the back door and its possible regulation is clear. There is no legal room for this, and I will not enter into consultation with municipalities on this point. Then there's Mrs. Kooiman, who asked me what I'm going to do with all those municipalities' plans. I will answer the same question. I'm not gonna do anything with that, because there's no legal room and the problem isn't solved. Mrs Helder asked a question about the growshops. Let me say first of all that I am very pleased that your Chamber and also the First Chamber have approved and accepted that amendment of the law. In recent months, criminalising the preparation of illegal hemp cultivation has caused a huge blow to illegal hemp cultivation. Until March 1st of this year it was possible for electricians, for brokers, for people working in the plumbing and for an unimaginable number of people who were active in the supply of all the resources needed to facilitate illegal hemp cultivation, to do so risklessly. This was not only true for the growshops, which are now rightly prohibited under the law, but above all for the facilitators too, I say in bad Dutch, which made it possible for pilots, business buildings and residential houses to be converted into illegal farms, with all the risks and damage that this entails. Those people are now punishable and their actions are punishable. Over the past one and a half to two months, this has already been a major success. It remains, of course, the responsibility of the local and regional triangle to set its own priorities in this respect and to determine capacity deployment. On 26 May there was a national action day, in which actions have taken place throughout the country on this point, I say to Mrs Helder. In this debate, Mrs Helder once again left no doubt as to the position of the PVV Group, as did many other spokesmen on behalf of their party, but claiming exactly the opposite of what Mrs Helder thinks. I would like to touch on the issue raised by Mrs Kooiman, who I liked, by the way, whether the Public Prosecutor himself had become an illegal potter. Parliamentary questions were put by Mrs Berndsen and a number of other members of the Chamber. I've asked the D.A.'s office for that reason. I haven't gotten that yet, so I can't say anything meaningful about the facts of the case. I'm not getting ahead of myself. In any case, it is possible to confiscate seeds under the Opium Act, which is set out in Article 11a, I say for those who love the seeds in connection with the Law on Seeds and Seeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u72	I remember that law well. Under Article 11a you can indeed take up seeds, but only if they are for large-scale farming. Of course there is no question of large-scale cultivation in the small packages that growshops supply to private individuals, all the more so because large-scale cultivation often involves cuttings instead of seeds. My question to the Minister is whether it is well founded. On what basis would the police themselves grow pot?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u73	I don't know the facts about this growshop. I notice that there are growshops like Mrs. Kooiman who sketches. You sometimes see them when you walk through Amsterdam: a small shop with a few of those pipes and a few bags with those seeds. But the term 'growshops' also includes the pilots we have found in recent months, in which huge quantities of seed are available. I have no idea whether this seed came from a growshop of that first category or from a growshop of the other category. Moreover, you also come with a lot of bags of seeds with low content to a very large number of seeds. I'm not going to speculate on it any further. I think it is a good thing that I wait for the message of office and then just answer the questions of the House at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u74	In my view, this has not yet proved that large-scale cultivation is a destination. Apart from that, I wonder whether an exemption has been granted under Article 3 of the Opium Act. The Public Prosecutor's Office or the police cannot grow a pot plant at all, even if it is only one, when no exemption has been granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u75	This seems to me to be a wonderful point, which I shall add to the answer given to the parliamentary questions that have been put. Even without Mrs Berndsen asking that question, I will ensure that this point is also answered, with reference to this debate. I'll take a look at Mrs Berndsen and see if she has any objection to me taking that with her. I note that this is not the case and I very much welcome it. As far as the Acts are concerned, Mrs Berndsen has just indicated that she has no objection to a question not being answered by her Parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u76	Are you going to a roundup too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u77	I do that with great joy. Mr Segers asked whether the task force should be stepped up. Do these people have enough manpower? I am talking about the 125 extra police officers we have deployed in the south of the Netherlands. I have just read out the results of the last few months. I think Mr Segers agrees with me that these are very impressive figures. I would like to point out that huge quantities of firearms have also been found, of the toughest kind. So it's really not about the home grower being chased by the police and the state's attorney's office. We are really talking about people who make horrendous amounts of money on a large scale with very serious criminal activities, and we are trying to put an end to that. We'll evaluate that task force. If there is a need for more capacity or other capacity, I will, of course, inform your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u78	I want to know how much time you think you need, because we have the next debate on the agenda at 8:45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u79	I have four more questions. And I know about that debate, because so do I, Mr President. I'm just gonna stand here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u80	I understand that, but at 8:45 p.m., other spokesmen will be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u81	Mr Segers asked what responsibility I, as Minister for Security and Justice, see for prevention. Of course, this is the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, but it goes without saying that the criteria for coffee shops have made significant arrangements for prevention. I know, by the way, that there is also a great deal of attention from the industry itself to prevention, partly as a result of the activities of the foundation, which is working for a label for coffeeshops, as is already the case in Haarlem. Mrs. Rebel had a question. If you as a government tolerate coffeeshops, are you actually not responsible for the quality of the offered in coffeeshops? That is a very exciting argument from Mrs Rebel. The sale is only tolerated. It's illegal, and it's still illegal. Then we would be responsible for the quality of the product, because we tolerate it. Of course, that is not the case. It is still an illegal product and let me also say here: I advise everyone not to use that illegal product, because it is a harmful product that can have very serious consequences. For this reason, I do not see any room for the government to interfere with the quality, other than that she says in general terms, and Mrs Rebel will agree that the use of cannabis should be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u82	I will try to be very brief, because I am well aware that there is another debate after this, but still. We have heard that there have been reports before and that professors have looked at the implementation as it takes place in the Netherlands. Can the Minister indicate whether this aspect has been investigated? Is the fact that we tolerate the risk of public health of what we tolerate not also a responsibility of the government? And if not, is the Minister inclined to have that investigated, possibly by the same renowned university he mentioned earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u83	Let me give you a brief answer. I'm not prepared to have that investigated, because I don't see that causal link. Wouldn't want to. I don't want the government to be responsible for the quality of what's being sold in coffee shops. In general, I think it is wise not to buy anything in coffee shops, because cannabis and cannabis use, as we all know, is really not recommended in the context of public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u84	I believe that the Minister, in his capacity as MP, once said that, if it were to come on the market now, alcohol would be placed on list 1 of the Opium Act. We know exactly what is in alcohol and tobacco. On the other hand, we tolerate this, it is covered by the so-called soft drugs and that when we do not know exactly what is being sold. I find that strange and I wonder what the Minister thinks of a product that we tolerate, when we really don't know what's in it, regardless of whether you have an opinion on how good or evil it is. There are legal products that are many times more dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u85	I don't think there's a pin to get between the conclusions RIVM made at the time on the harmfulness of alcohol, tobacco, heroin, cocaine in relation to LSD and cannabis. I'm not gonna take anything away from that either. Just because you tolerate something doesn't mean you have to be responsible or responsible for the quality. I really do not see that causal link and for that reason I will not have any investigation into it either. If it had to be, it would be an investigation which would take place in the context of public health, and then it would be more in line with what Secretary of State Van Rijn would say. I would estimate that he too would not consider that investigation desirable, but you can ask him. Maybe he doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u86	We are having this debate with this Minister and must therefore do so with the reply of this Minister. He says we're gonna stand down, so you better not buy. That is, of course, a rather strange reasoning. After all, it is allowed to sell. So if the government allows something to be sold, then it must also ensure that what is sold falls within public health standards. Then how does the Minister look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u87	Cannabis use never falls within public health standards. It's unwise to use cannabis. Mrs Berndsen knows that as well as I do. I also know that Mrs Berndsen herself has a very personal opinion on cannabis use. I think it is in itself a very sensible position to discourage everyone from using it. With our policy we have ensured a strict separation between soft drugs and hard drugs in the interests of public health. I fully support that. Based on research, we all know that this policy has been successful. We should be proud of that. That is why we are maintaining the policy of tolerance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u88	There's a weird swing around it after all. Other products such as alcohol and hard drugs are indeed well controlled. It checks, for example, whether the alcohol content on it is also present, while alcohol is also harmful to public health. So it doesn't happen with cannabis. I don't understand anything!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u89	I can't help that. I explained why that is and that being tolerated does not mean that you are responsible for it, because cannabis is and remains an illegal product. Mr Segers asked, as a result of the debate which arose in particular in Brabant and Limburg, whether I am prepared to use the proceeds from the withdrawal of criminal money to compensate drug-destroyers. I note that not too long ago the Chamber released a sum of money to support provinces and municipalities in the disposal of drug waste. Moreover, this is mainly about hard drug waste, because there is not so much hemp waste that is covered by it. As Mr Segers is undoubtedly aware, the funds obtained from withdrawal return to the state treasury. It's incidental funds. It is therefore extremely complicated to divide them between the injured and, if necessary, to compensate for the damage suffered. That would also be a challenge in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u90	When it comes to budgetary engineering, I am happy to accept the rules. I'm an obedient person in that regard. However, the objective is important. This is not so much helping municipalities as helping individuals who have to pay for the damage caused by others. That's unfair. Can we help them with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u91	We are. We did, but there were other spokesmen and another department involved. If I am right, the Department of Economic Affairs has made a sum of money available, precisely to assist people who face the costs of disposing of drug waste. From my point of view, it was EUR 2 million, but I am honestly not quite sure. Moreover, all these costs are, of course, recoverable to those who caused the damage. I also realise, however, that there are not all those who are involved, because that would also give the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police sufficient information to apprehend those involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u92	We're looking into who that $2 million was finally made available to. I want to make one last interruption. I would like to underline once again the question I asked about the undermining of the mayor's position. We get good messages from Brabant when it comes to the battle and the hard blows that have been handed out. At the same time, we are receiving worrying reports about the position of the mayor and the authority being undermined. What is the Minister's responsibility and what is he doing at least to put the mayor in a position to fight drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u93	I am glad that Mr Segers is asking that question. I have recently made work visits in Limburg as well as in Brabant specifically on this issue. That was to support the mayors precisely on this point and to point out that the government is fully behind them and will do everything in its power to stop the undermining which they signal and which we ourselves also point out, particularly with regard to the criminal motorcycle gangs. In doing so, we wanted to say that we are always in front of our people. I have also said that I have been able to repeat this here once, and I am doing so again with your hands off our drivers. This applies to mayors, aldermen, council members and also to individual officials. They just don't get you as a criminal. We will not allow that. We will take a firm stand against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u94	Can you finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u95	I just have to answer Mr van Oosten's last question on developments in neighbouring countries. Not too long ago we sent a rather comprehensive letter to the Chamber. The Chamber asked what is happening in the world in the field of soft drugs policy. In response, I informed the Chamber. Mr Van Oosten also specifically asked about Belgium. As a matter of fact, yesterday I had my colleague Geens to eat, the Minister of Justice of Belgium. I asked him to do that. So the information is fresh from the press. In Belgium there is indeed a movement towards a total ban on cannabis. I understand that this is included in the government agreement of the Belgian Government. No concrete steps have yet been taken in this direction, as Mr Geens told me. It is certain that I will agree with colleagues from Belgium, Luxembourg and France on an action programme for cooperation against drug crime, particularly because of its cross-border nature. Apart from what the Belgians do on their own territory, it is important for me that we work together to stop organized drug crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u96	A question from me hasn't been answered yet. The Minister has three tools. The first is talking to mayors. He already does. The second is that the D.A.'s office is involved in criminal offences. Luckily, that's what's gonna happen. The third option is very interesting. The Minister himself can intervene through Crown destruction or suspension of decisions. We see that, contrary to my motion and contrary to the Minister's policy, municipalities say: we are doing it anyway. Is the Minister prepared to destroy or suspend the decisions through the Crown in such matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u97	I must point out to Mr Oskam that this is a question of choice. There is currently no question of decisions taken by municipalities that are contrary to our law. Municipalities form thoughts for themselves about possible regulation of weed cultivation within their own possibilities. In that context, no decision has yet been taken that is contrary to the law. If there is a breach of the law, it is primarily up to the Public Prosecutor to act. When that situation arises, I will of course consider Mr Oskam's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u98	I see that there is a need for a second term. Speaking time is one minute per political group, including tabling any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u99	Mr. Chairman. Then I need to talk real quick. I've got a like-dan motion. I don't quite follow the minister. If criminal acts are committed, the Public Prosecutor's Office will act. In the Netherlands, we do not want criminal offences to be committed. As soon as a municipality takes a decision that is contrary to the decision of the minister, the decision of the central government, I want the minister to intervene. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the wishes of a majority of the Chamber, the cabinet does not want to give any room for regulating pot growing;]] [[whereas a number of municipalities offer scope for this, or have it explored;]] [[calls on the Government, in respect of these municipalities, to make use of the possibility for the Crown to suspend or destroy local decisions on pot growing which are contrary to the law in force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u100	I would like to respond to Mr Van Oosten's request that there should be no too many motions. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u101	Mr. Chairman. It does not make much sense to come up with any more arguments. I'm gonna file my motions right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the rejection of municipal plans for controlled pot cultivation experiments is based on false assumptions, conclusions and results;]] [[calls on the government, municipal councils to give a new opportunity and to have the proposed plans for regulated growing of weed evaluated by an independent committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that local experiments with regulated growing of weed have been rejected;]] [[calls on the Government, by plan, to specify which elements of these experiments do not comply with current laws and regulations;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-348]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-349]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u102	Mr. Chairman. I have one more question. If the police and the state's attorney's office are actually going to grow weed, I don't mind. If there is an exemption for the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, that gives municipalities enough space to do the same. As far as I'm concerned, it'll be removed from the criminal circuit as soon as something's legalized. That's what we did with alcohol. That is why I asked the Minister written questions. I asked him how many illegal distilleries have been rolled up. They're gone. If we follow this example with weed, I think we are well on our way to fighting crime. I have a very nice motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u103	Then you must be quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u104	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that coffeeshops are still dependent on illegal suppliers for their supplies, since there is no legal alternative as long as weed cultivation is not regulated;]] [[noting that cities such as Amsterdam and Haarlem are considering how to deal with this in a pragmatic way and are exploring the bottlenecks and possibilities of regulation of "the back door";]] [[Whereas these explorations could also provide valuable insights into national policy;]] [[invites the government to engage in talks with, among others, the municipality of Haarlem and the municipality of Amsterdam to inform themselves about the results of the aforementioned explorations and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kooiman and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-350]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u105	I wonder where Mr Kooiman bases the certainty that organised crime or crime will be overturned if it is legalized. In particular, the left-wing parties were so pleased with the course of events in Uruguay, but the media reports on this state that a year after historical weed legalization in Uruguay, blowers still pawn massively through the black market. Once again, I wonder what Mr Kooiman is basing that certainty on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u106	Of course, I agree with the PVV that it takes time, but I would like to point out in this connection the way things are going with alcohol. After legalization, there are no illegal distilleries anymore. A survey carried out by the Ministry itself in the broad review shows that there is a need to reduce the cost of combating crime if it is regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u107	It is certainly true that this takes time, but the same message also says that people just don't want it. It may also be easy-going, but apparently it still prefers to do business through the black market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u108	In the Netherlands there is a policy of tolerance. We have a different system here. There is a possibility to buy in the shops. I've been with you myself on the roll-up of the weed trade. Even cops say there's organized crime that needs to be dealt with. In our view, we have the solution, namely the regulation of weed cultivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u109	Mr. Chairman. I want to encourage the Minister to uphold the law, but I do not think he needs that encouragement very much, because he shows himself to be combative. I also encourage him to constantly seek out the conversation with local authorities to see where they need extra help and support to further combat the evils of drugs and drug addiction. I asked him about a compensation arrangement. He said there's already a compensation scheme. There is, but it is not enough. The cost of disposing of drug waste is a multiple of what money is available. That's why I put in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas farmers, naturalists and private individuals suffer from the dumping of drug waste;]] [[Considering that, in almost all cases, they themselves have to bear the cost of disposing of this drug waste because it is difficult to recover these costs from an offender;]] [[points out that it is undesirable for farmers, nature managers and individuals to bear the cost of disposing of drug waste from others;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the compensation scheme for farmers, nature managers and individuals should be improved and inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Oskam and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-351]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u110	Mr. Chairman. Before the minister closes the ball, I'd like to table two more cheerful motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the tolerance policy allows the use of cannabis;]] [[considers that the government's policy of tolerance with regard to the sale of cannabis and its use entails a responsibility for the health of cannabis users;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to examine the responsibility of the government for developing policy on the quality of cannabis;]] [[instructs the government to assess the extent to which the policy of tolerance makes the government responsible for the product quality of cannabis sold in coffee shops and to what extent it is legally required in the context of public health;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before the end of this year;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that various initiatives are developing to better regulate the use and sale of cannabis;]] [[noting that one of these initiatives developed in Zwijndrecht in which a foundation manages the coffeeshop and which is not profit-making because of this legal form, and in which the profits flow back into the community;]] [[noting that staff are covered by the collective agreement on Well-being;]] [[Considers that this example in its form could be highly appropriate to serve as an experiment on the cultivation of cannabis to supply a coffee shop;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine this initiative in Zwijndrecht and to enable a similar project to serve as an experiment to regulate the supply of the coffee shop and to focus on the health of the user;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice of this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rebel and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-352]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rebel and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24077-353]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u111	Mr. Chairman. I'll start the motions right away. On the motion-Oskam in part No. Mr Oskam and I had an exchange of views during the debate. I don't need to go into as-danmotions. In due course, I will see what is the most appropriate way to enforce the law. For that reason, I must advise against this motion. I come to the Berndsen-Jansen/Kooiman motion in part No. 348 which calls for a new opportunity for municipal councils to have regulated pot growing plans assessed by an independent committee. I don't see any room for that. Nor am I prepared to do so. I dissuade the motion for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u112	Mr Van Oosten, is your question about the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u113	Yes. I'll be brief. The Minister's opinion is clear. Nevertheless, for the sake of my understanding, I am asking whether it is true that the prosecution is going to act, so I am going to maintain it, as soon as a municipality acts in violation of the Opium Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u114	As my predecessor stated not only in word, but also in writing, the starting point is the expectation that the public prosecutor will act if municipalities break the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u115	The motion in part No. 349.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u116	That is Mrs Berndsen-Jansen's motion. It calls for a concrete definition of which elements of these experiments do not comply with current legislation and regulations. Mr Van Kempen's research at Radboud University Nijmegen makes it clear that none of the experiments comply with laws and regulations. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u117	Mr Oskam, you may ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u118	Yes, I have a question about my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u119	It's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u120	That's what I understand. Of course, I'll get it all with me. I don't get it. We do not want criminal offences in the Netherlands. Now municipalities say fuck the minister, fuck the Chamber, we'll do it anyway. Then we wait for a weed nursery to be set up, until the plug goes into the socket, and then the police and the D.A. come in. Why doesn't the minister say once to a church that is disobedient: that's not allowed? Then it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u121	I do not recognize in Mr Oskam's paraphrase that municipalities would say that the minister could go to hell. That's not my perception of what's happening right now. There are municipalities that take stock on their own responsibility and see what can ever be an appropriate way to legalise or regulate the cultivation of weed. Just as this is possible within the CDA as a political party, in our state system municipalities may also assume their own responsibility at that level. So I don't recognize myself in this at all. Moreover, I have said that I am not aware of any church that is breaking the law at this time. If that is the case, it is primarily up to the D.A. to act. Should it occur, I will see which instruments to use. For that reason, I am not going to re-assess Mr Oskam's motion. I'm gonna dissuade her. I'll come to the motion in part No. 350 by Mrs Kooiman and Mrs Berndsen-Jansen. They ask me to ask, among other things, the municipalities of Haarlem and Amsterdam about the results of the aforementioned reconnaissances and to inform the Chamber about them. In the light of the reply I have already given to Mrs Kooiman's motion, I see no reason to leave the opinion on this particular motion to the Chamber. Why not? Because the thought formations in Haarlem and Amsterdam will not lead to a change of policy, given its legal impossibility. That's why I advise against this motion. As I said in the debate, I am always available for conversations with the mayors who wish to do so. Through the motion in part No. 351, tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Oskam and Mr Berndsen-Jansen, invites the government to improve the compensation scheme for farmers, nature managers and individuals and to inform the Chamber accordingly. The debate on this has already been extensive, including with my predecessor. He said that landowners are primarily responsible for preventing the dumping of drug waste. Dumping of drug waste concerns dumping of residues of hard drugs, in particular of ecstasy. This is a little out of the order of this debate. I do not therefore have the figures ready, but I believe that in recent months, and perhaps even last year, the volume of drug dumping, especially in the south of the Netherlands, has fallen dramatically. This shows that the policy works. I have more interest in implementing this policy than in creating compensation schemes in addition to the existing one. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u122	It is curious, however, that the Minister says that landowners must ensure that there are no dumping on their territory. Eating the whole egg is, of course, illegal dumping. They take place and landowners have to pay for the costs. That seems very unfair to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u123	It is precisely because it is unfair in a number of cases that the Chamber has decided to make a sum of money available for this purpose. I understand that, too, as I said. That goes through a different budget, by the way. In addition, a very large number of landowners employ specific investigators, the so-called green boas, precisely in order to secure and guard their territory. State forestry is an example of this, but there are many more land owners who have people available to do so. It is part of their task, however, to ensure that these dumpings do not take place. In this respect, it is logical for everyone to assume their own responsibilities. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is a fund and that the Court has insisted on it. I'm sure the VVD was involved, but perhaps the Christian Union was involved. So there is such a provision. That is why I maintain my position that this motion should be discouraged. In the Rebel/Berndsen-Jansen motion to item No. 352 is directed to the government to assess whether it sees a responsibility to have the quality of an illegal product determined by the government. I do not see that responsibility, as I have explained in detail in debates. That's why I don't recommend the motion. In the Rebel/Kooiman motion in part No. 353 the government is invited to investigate an initiative in Zwijndrecht. I won't do that because I don't think there's any reason for that. That's why I advise against this motion. In doing so, I have advised against all the motions that have been tabled in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-11-tweedekamer-17.u124	This brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
