ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome Minister Ploumen. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Smaling of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. At the Top 2000 it is every year waiting to see if It's the Same Old Song of the Four Tops is still in place, but when you consider the budget for BuHa-OS you are sure: it is in it. Actually, it's always about more or less the same things. Shouldn't country A which cooperates be punished for not respecting human rights? Isn't country B making extra money because the elections were so democratic? Shouldn't spearhead X get more attention than spearhead Y, while maybe ten years ago the opposite was argued? Do small children get enough nutrients inside country C? Are gays left alone in land D? Has the police department become less corrupt in country E? What is the progress in combating teenage pregnancy in country F? In the meantime, if you have to rely purely on the budget, many millions with a nevertheless rich aggregate and therefore unclear objective are being sent across the world. This is done with the best intentions, but without us being able to judge where it leads and how effective it is at the moment. We have already discussed this this week, which is a good thing. Sometimes it is good to think away a policy area completely and then to think again how you would set it up. Is that an exercise the Minister is interested in? I say this because we dealt with the Environment Act not so long ago. Minister Schultz van Haegen then actually devised 26 laws and then thought out what a contemporary interpretation of spatial planning policy would be. That has led to a rather refreshing law. It is still full of loose ends, but it represents a vision of the living environment that suits this time of year. Is that something for the Minister to hunt down?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u3	The choice for songs, for songs, of the SP is as old as the ideology of that party. It doesn't ring a bell, the Four Tops. I know Hello from Adele. I ask the SP if it is really only solidarity in the Netherlands. When it comes to something very important, namely solidarity across national borders, international cooperation, it comes up with such a flat criticism as Mr Smaling is now putting forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u4	The point of the beginning of the contribution is that we, as SP, believe that, from the moment that many African countries have signed up to do so, I shall restrict myself to doing so. Until now, we have become largely independent about the same things and that it seems that neither we, nor those regions, have developed into adulthood and yet choose to do certain things themselves. I'd like to put my finger on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u5	I am surprised that the SP takes this view. If anything characterizes the policy of this cabinet in the field of development cooperation, then it is mobilisation. The Minister's policy area is called Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation for a reason. This cabinet has thus entered new paths and the results of walking down these paths are now also visible. I believe that the opening of the SP is below par for an assessment of the hard work done in this area by this cabinet. I invite the SP once again to show solidarity not only in the Netherlands, but also across national borders with a choice of modern lyrics and good reading of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u6	The word "solidar" is used here a bit of gratuity, I think. There is no question of us believing that this minister is not working very hard. What I see is that I have been following the policy area for some time now, since the early 1960s, or let us start in the 1970s, when Jan Pronk was Minister, very often talking about the same things. I have seen two excellent notes in the early 1990s, in the second period of Jan Pronk. Then I thought: hey, here's really an analysis of how the world has changed from the end of colonial times to now and that provides a basis for moving on in a different way. Whether that happened in part at the time, I can leave it in the middle now. I simply note that we are still doing a lot of the same things in that I persist in. Mr Vos can talk until he falls down, but I will not judge otherwise. I would like to talk about TTIP (Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership), because that has to stop by. Some time ago I thought the Minister had had it, but now she writes again that there is much to be gained for the Netherlands, both for consumers and for employment. In the case of consumers, she talks about increasing the choice of products. But do we need an increase in the choice of products if you see what is in the shops here? What's the advantage? The Minister also says: the cabinet is committed to involving itself in society in the discussion on TTIP. But how does she do that? In my view, only Arjen Lubach is committed to involving society in the discussion on TTIP and not the Minister. And in Brussels, as a MEP, you have to go into an extremely secret room under supervision to read articles about TTIP. As you can already see that a Canadian company is threatening the Romanian government because of a permit for an environmentally polluting project, I am holding my heart and I hope the Minister will do the same. That CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement) with Canada should actually be a reason to think twice before agreeing to TTIP. Furthermore, I am reading all kinds of books, including Mr Bosma's book, but also Olivier van Beemen's book. It's called Heineken in Africa. It says what you were somewhat afraid of: Heineken is one of those companies that regulates many tax advantages for themselves with governments, so even beer in many countries is cheaper than soft drinks. Now the Minister is very committed to helping countries to collect tax better and change tax treaties, but if you read this and you see the studies made last year by One and Transparency International, which say that some EUR 760 billion a year is lost by blocking profits, unpaid taxes and corruption, then that is a very noble amount. How does the Minister deal with this further? There are three main issues in the area of development cooperation that I would like to address. The first is international solidarity. That was, is and will always be a big point for us. Everyone deserves a life with a basic level of rights and facilities. People in Africa are generally less laughed at by life at birth than we are, even if you wouldn't say so, because on average there is much more laughing there than here in the Netherlands. That is why we support Mr Voordewind's amendment on disabled people. At the same time, each country deserves a care system that fits its own culture. Then there is a whole range of traditional healers to a formal medical infrastructure. The focus on broader health systems seems to be in competition with the focus on specific conditions, supplies of vaccines, diagnostic tests, condoms, medicines, however useful they are. Therefore, the SP considered it appropriate to table an amendment on healthcare systems. This could work well, for example, in countries where they have experienced Ebola and where they have to rebuild the healthcare system from below. Recent documents on a hostage situation for uninsured patients and on doctors and nurses who sign for presence and then work in a private clinic or sell equipment support the need for such an amendment. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. The second point is conflicts and flows of refugees. Never before have so many people been on the run. De-escalation in the Middle East is crucial, but reception of refugees here and there just as well. But I've lost track of the expenditures. The asylum money is now covered by a separate annex in the HGIS (Homogenic Working Party on International Cooperation), but I cannot get out of it. That could be me. I see all kinds of different amounts. I'd like to get an explanation of that. And what if it's disappointing, since it's an estimate? In addition to responding to refugee flows themselves, we must and can also do much more to reduce the risks of disasters and to respond better to disasters. You can reduce the danger yourself, you can reduce the vulnerability of humans and the environment, but you can also sit behind the disaster. There huge improvements are needed with the use of Dutch expertise. Because of the wisdom of all those involved, I have found the VVD willing to table together an amendment aimed at the large consortium Wings for Aid, which can do work that can save many lives and quickly provide insight into circumstances where we cannot get there. I am referring in particular to Nepal; we have just had this situation. Something similar you could do in camps where people sit for 20 years or more, like in Dadaab. The Netherlands could therefore do much more to make the effort behind the disaster. Thirdly, I come to migration. We had a summit in Valletta. I'm not allowed to use dirty words here, but that was a really bad summit. I've only heard bad reviews about that. Europe puts 2 billion away, the rest pays almost nothing, we pay 15 million. It seems again that a large pepper nut is being thrown over the Mediterranean Sea to Africa. In the context of the debate we have had on medium, purpose and effectiveness, I do wonder where the 15 million will go. On page 7 of the HGIS note, it is stated that in this way the Netherlands is committed at European level to increasing attention for African young people who are vulnerable to smugglers and radicalisation due to the rapidly growing youth unemployment. Just one sentence! I wonder what the European context is, who is doing what, what 'greater attention' means, how much youth unemployment is growing and what sectors need to be developed, what bottlenecks are being created, whether work is being given, smugglers are being tackled and whether radicalisation is being addressed. What is effective and efficient in this, where do you start and when do you get results? Those are all legitimate questions. In this context, too, I would say that every effort must be made to create jobs for young people in Africa. There was also a piece in EenVandaag about Senegal, where active recruitment is being made to migrate. People must no longer be tempted to defy deserts and seas to come here. Make every effort to counter this, focus on vocational training, investment for start-ups who cannot get a loan yet, and do so immediately green, so that you can link climate funds directly to employment, both in the city and in the countryside. As a bridge function, as a catalyst the diaspora is needed, the African Dutch. A motion has been passed, the Minister has been to one evening with the diaspora, I have tabled an amendment on this and I hope my colleagues can agree that the diaspora can play an important bridge role between the Netherlands and Africa. This is really necessary in order to "handle" part of a migration package. In our view, the taxpayer should continue to have an affinity with this issue. That's what we worry about every once in a while. As far as we are concerned, it is necessary to move towards a brother-sister relationship, from medical center to medical center, from roc to roc, from recycling company to recycling company and from younger to younger. Let's keep working on that. If we all do that, it's not The Same Old Song next year, it's Ch...ch...changes, maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u7	I heard such weird noises that I woke up right away. No, that's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u8	You've been paying attention the whole time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u9	I've been watching very closely. Of course, I missed one song and that was the song Taxman. If the taxpayer chooses something or wants to cut something and if the SP-chooser wants to cut something, it is that maled development aid. That SP picker understands that it's all wasted money, that the money has been shipped to all kinds of corrupt countries in Africa that aren't of any use to us at all. That SP picker wants to quit crazy development aid tomorrow. Then why are the SP-bobos continuing their love of development aid? Don't you guys ever talk to your constituents or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u10	That is The Same Old Song again, because last year Mr Bosma asked exactly the same question. At that time I also said that there is a very great ambition in congresses and party councils to deal with third world countries. However, I have also listened very carefully to Mr Bosma and this year we have been unsatisfied in writing a note on development cooperation. It's gone through the party wide. It is really not a joke and I have listened very carefully to Mr Bosma. I wondered how we could now come up with a development cooperation programme in which our constituents think it is useful and useful, especially if you can participate in it yourself. I hope that many more people from Mr Bosma's party will cross again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr. Bosma again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u12	I have some bad news for you, because those voters leave the SP and end up with us. This may have to do with the odd position of the SP on development aid. The opinion polls I know have been a while, but it shows that the SP-chooser wants to get rid of development aid. He'll get it. He understands that it's wasted money and that we can put the money you want to send to Africa much better into our nursing and retirement homes. But what does the SP say, all the way from its own voters and its own people? The SP wants to give even 1 billion more to that crazy development aid. Why would you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u13	The situation with the refugee flows makes it very easy to scare people. That's what the PVV did. With short oneliners you can be quite successful in this, and then it is up to parties like the SP but also to other parties like the VVD, to inform and inform people about what is really going on. It is also up to them to tell us why this situation is happening now and to explain that you can intervene in different ways by de-escalating it, by providing on-the-spot assistance and by more stringent border monitoring. We are all in favour of this, as Mr Bosma knows, but you will need that money. 'Cause these people don't just evaporate. It's not water drops. So I still think it's money well spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u14	I shall now give the floor to Mr Taverne. Ah, I see Mr Voordewind has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr President, I do not have a question for Mr Smaling, but I do have a point of order. We have just received a letter from the Minister on the budget, containing the state of play. The budget is based on an inflow of 27,000, but after the letter of Friday from the Ministry of V and J we are now at 58,000. We therefore call on the Minister to clarify for its term the real estimate of the inflow for next year. That is what the whole budget depends on. Otherwise, we're gonna have a 500-600 million hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u16	The Minister will respond tomorrow. I'll take a look at other colleagues, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u17	This debate makes very little sense if you see that there is a gap because of the 58 000. If you look at the German figures and what is going to happen to Leros every day, the number is getting much bigger and we are actually holding this debate for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u18	I would have liked to ask a question about this in my contribution. We are indeed going to have a lot of additional asylum seekers, and at the moment it is not clear at all what the impact of this on this budget is. We would like that insight for tomorrow. We also know that the Najaarsnota will come to the House of Representatives next Monday. Perhaps the Minister could already inform the Chamber of what is in that Navy note on this point. This is essential for this budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u19	I'll take a closer look. Another point to add, Mr Van Laar?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u20	In that autumn report, the actualization will indeed come. That's what we agreed. The cabinet will not be able to determine it until Friday, I assume, so it will not be able to go to the Chamber tomorrow. So let's just continue the debate and see if there will be any occasion for a new debate next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u21	Let us continue the debate now. The question has been passed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u22	I assume, therefore, that colleagues will also indicate that they see room for reopening the debate next week if the figures in the Autumn note show that there is a big gap in the budget. In any case, I would like to highlight this point, because we have to discuss a budget with each other whose figures are correct. I understand the fact that the Minister cannot give those figures to the Council of Ministers, but if it were necessary, I would ask colleagues to give this room for manoeuvre. We're not saying it's necessary right now, but there's got to be an opening in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u23	The Chamber itself is in charge of the agenda. Mr Taverne, do you have anything to add?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u24	Yes. I do not think that Mr Van Veldhoven's reservations are necessarily necessary. We are going to talk about it, but part of the new system is that it is possible to determine afterwards what the inflow and the funding is. I do not think that an advance should necessarily be made on reopening the debate. As far as I am concerned, we are going to have the debate now. If there is a need for a new debate later, then we will determine it again at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u25	The debate will now continue and we will see to what extent the Minister will reply to the Chamber tomorrow. Then one can always see what one does, because the Chamber is about its own agenda. My proposal is to continue the debate now and to allow the Minister to respond tomorrow in accordance with the timetable. After that, it is up to the Chamber to see if the Autumn note gives rise to a follow-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u26	My proposal was not to stop or suspend the debate, but to have the Minister explain tomorrow, at the beginning of her contribution, the non-real influx of 27 000, as her colleague at V and J did. That's what 58.000 is supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u27	Okay, you asked your question. I assume the Minister will answer that tomorrow. I see her nodding now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. Today and tomorrow we are discussing the budget of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. That seems to be the most ordinary thing in the world, but it is not. It is only three years since the FVO's desire to bring aid and trade under the responsibility of one minister resulted in the appointment of the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. This makes the Netherlands one of the first countries to put this innovative treatment of development aid into practice. On behalf of the VVD Group, I will pay particular attention to the Dutch Good Growth Fund, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partner ship and its conditionality in relation to illegal migration and lack of return. I'll start with the Dutch Good Growth Fund. The VVD Group has been in favour of the Minister's policy of contributing through trade to the development of low-income countries and the fight against poverty since the government agreement was concluded. However, it appears that Dutch trade in goods with developing countries tripled between 2006 and 2014, while trade with DGGF countries only doubled during the same period. Although of course the VVD Group is not opposed to adding value to development and DGGF countries, Dutch entrepreneurs should also benefit from the DGGF. In view of the moderate success of the so-called third track, exporting by Dutch SMEs, I ask the Minister whether too many bureaucratic conditions have been imposed within DGGF. In the longer term, the VVD Group sees a possible solution for reducing that bureaucracy. A change in restrictions and CSR conditions could lower the threshold for a DGGF application. The VVD Group also sees opportunities within growth markets through the introduction of new, flexible and competitive financial instruments. One example is the combination of export and investment, including and especially in early stages of projects. In the opinion of the VVD Group, short-term loans could be a solution for improving track success 3. On a turnover basis, they are cheaper and therefore more competitive. Smaller transactions are possible. We would like to hear the Minister's views on these possible solutions. There appears to be a non-exhaustible use of rail 3 by DGGF. This raises the question of whether the Minister intends to use railway 3 surpluses in later years for rail 1 and rail 2 expenditure. In the opinion of the VVD Group, it is too early to draw that conclusion and rail 3 needs time and space to develop fully and fully as part of the DGGF. Can the Minister confirm that she feels the same way about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u29	I know the VVD as a party that doesn't like unemployment. She likes to get to work and work. Why should we leave money out of work in the bank if we might also be able to use it for jobs in developing countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr Van Veldhoven is absolutely right. The VVD is the real party of labor, as the slogan was. The VVD works and wants others to do so as well and as much as possible. This does not alter the fact that in this case track 3 is particularly important for the Dutch business community. If this can continue to develop, specifically targeting the countries within the DGGF, it will also benefit those countries themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u31	There's been some confusion about the order of the tracks. One of the tracks is about export credits. We see that things are not going well there. There are some interesting projects that I don't mind, but there's a lot of money out there in the bank. Would it not be nice to say that this money can be used to create jobs in developing countries unless there is a really good plan from the Netherlands? In this way, we use the money and do not put it in vain in the bank, while we do not make it completely impossible for good projects to be launched. What's the VVD like about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u32	The VVD Group first wants an answer from the Minister to the question of whether there is too much bureaucracy that is now standing in the way of full growth of track 3. When the answer comes to that question, we know what it will take to develop it further. If that does not help, then we can look at other solutions. I am not going to commit myself in advance to what can come out of it. I'll wait for the Minister's answer first. Mr Smaling already referred to the creation of TTIP. The VVD Group is looking forward to the latest developments in recent sessions in Washington D.C. Can the Minister tell us more about this? There is increasing concern within the VVD Group. Do the United States still have the will to achieve results before the American presidential elections? Is that concern justified? Does the Minister therefore expect to see whether there can be an agreement before the moment of the fall of March 2017? TTIP offers many opportunities for the growth of the Dutch economy and employment. It is not the first time we have pointed this out. Can the Foreign Trade Minister say once again, once and for all, once and for all that the Cabinet is for free trade? The VVD Group strongly asks the Minister not to participate in all kinds of retreating movements that can be observed. Careful negotiation must not be hindered and frustrated by the fact that we are being held hostage by myths and ghost stories about something like the chlorine chicken, which I, as a vegetarian, do not eat; but apart from that. Activists and NGOs have little more to add to the negotiations than fueling unrest, spreading disinformation and sometimes even falsely influencing the process. The VVD Group asks the cabinet to strongly distance itself from this and to ensure that the right information is provided. Transparency is important. The VVD warmly welcomes the steps taken to achieve greater openness in this process, but there are also limits to openness in negotiations. Anyone who negotiates sometimes knows that a degree of confidentiality and secrecy is very important during negotiations. Does the Minister share this view of the current negotiations on TTIP? The Trans-Pacific Partnership is in its final phase. The US and the states in the Pacific seem to be getting ahead of this. Trade in Europe is lagging behind. What does the Minister intend to do about this? The Minister has made great efforts to adapt the ISDS clauses to international trade agreements concluded by Europe. Our group appreciates that very much. The VVD Group believes that this can remove the worst resistance to treaties. Can the Minister explain the final steps taken in this area? Conditionality is an important instrument in Dutch foreign policy for the VVD group. Import and export play a dominant role in relations between the Netherlands and many other countries. On this point, the cabinet does not seem to recognize to a sufficient extent that this is the case. The Minister is part of the so-called immigration think tank of the cabinet. In doing so, the Minister is well aware of the problems faced by the Secretary of State for Security and Justice and by the whole cabinet in curbing the influx of illegal immigrants and the withdrawal of non-EU nationals. Syrians come to Europe in large numbers. 900 million Africans from sub-Saharan regions could drift in the coming years. In Afghanistan it is restless again and from Pakistan and surrounding countries there are economic fortune seekers. In October, a record number of migrants via the Mediterranean came to Europe, over 218,000. I'll put that number in perspective. It was almost equal to the total number of 2014 migrants. According to the VVD Group, all this calls for an approach and a policy of what, hears what, a policy in which the influx is contained and reception in the region is the starting point. This is also a policy in which countries such as Lebanon, which have a high level of regional reception, are helped by the EU through trade preferences and where sanctions against countries that avoid their reception or return responsibility are not shunned. These actions should, in the opinion of the VVD Group, be initiated by the cabinet. Does this Minister agree with the possibilities and impossibilities of the conditionality approach? Is the Minister prepared to sanction more frequently, within the conditionality principles, instead of rewarding?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u33	Last Monday, Mr Taverne called for evaluation and learning to be carried out, but he does not seem to do so himself. The last evaluation shows that conditionality makes no sense when it comes to promoting return or initiating cooperation from recipient countries. Then why is he making the same proposal again? Is ideology more important than evaluation or did he miss the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u34	I didn't miss the evaluation. I haven't missed the practice either and the practice is that at a number of times attempts have been made to implement that conditionality, including by Ghana. I believe that it was 10 million in deficits because the country actively did not cooperate in the withdrawal of out-of-court compatriots. The conclusion was: yes, that doesn't work, so let's just put it back in the next year. So that was a bit of a start with conditionality and when it didn't have immediate effect, we returned to our steps. I would have preferred that the amount cut in Ghana the following year would have doubled or tripled to see if that would help. This is not reflected in the evaluation, and it cannot be, because it has not been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u35	Do I understand correctly that if something doesn't work, we have to double or triple the bet, just as long as we find out it's gonna work? Are we now ideologically convinced that it should work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u36	If so, we need to double the ODA budget to 8.2 billion. I think that's a lot. I therefore disagree with Mr Van Laar. I believe that the resources we have are not sufficiently put into practice and have not been sufficiently tried. We can evaluate what we want, but what has not been tried cannot be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u37	I agree with Mr Van Laar's speech. He says it's weird that you take a country like Ghana, which doesn't take back its subjects, first briefly and then give it back. In fact, just before the summer, our Minister has made it clear that she wants to invest 50 million more in Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire and Senegal, among others, to tackle the root causes of migration and also to start employment. How does the VVD fraction look at that? She says: as long as this withdrawal is not yet settled with Ghana, is there just zero euros going to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yes, that would be the solution of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u39	Then I am very curious whether the Minister shares this solution and awaits her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u40	I await that with great tension with you, but I very much agree with you that the method that has now been used has not worked, that then giving extra money through another title works rather opposite and that you also make it very difficult for a country to get the message transmitted, because you give back five times what you take away with one hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u41	You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u42	How does the Minister assess the shift from resources to reception in the region as presented last week during the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget? And more importantly, is it prepared to take any more action in this respect? Not just it under the responsibility of...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u43	I had the impression that Mr Taverne was moving on from one subject to another. In her letter, the Minister talks about 27,000 people coming to the Netherlands. That's 58.000 by now. This "flow is growing more and more" to quote the International. That goes on and on. A triple is expected for next year. It would be 60 million people driven. Where's the upper limit for the VVD? Apparently, it hasn't been reached yet. The only thing Mr Taverne is concerned about is that there is still much more money to be spent. What's the maximum number of people? He calls them lucky seekers who, according to the VVD, can come here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u44	We have not yet established that number, nor can we establish that number as one-two-three. It is important, however, that we do everything possible to reach a point where there is an obvious upper limit. That is why it is important, for example, what negotiations and talks will take place in Turkey this weekend. It is important what we have already done to tighten up border controls. Anything in our power to limit that influx can prevent us from having to say at a good time: this was too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u45	Border checks? We don't have any more boundaries. That's just the shit. Mr Taverne is going to wait for talks in Turkey. We have just heard from Mr Smaling about the talks in Valletta. He wanted to use a very unkind and unparliamentary word for that. He swallowed it. We can wait for all kinds of discussions and conferences, but those boats arrive at dozens a day. There were 34 of them on Leros yesterday at half past six. The VVD just makes sure there's enough room for those people, so there's a lot more coming. The tammem goes all over Africa. Millions of people and millions of people and millions of people are coming here, thanks, among other things, to Mr Bitch's policy. Open doors, open borders, where is the border for the VVD to say: now it's full, now it's no happiness seekers Mr Taverne is using the word himself anymore in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u46	Mr Bosma does not need to convince the VVD Group of the urgency of the problem. We see that in large numbers every day. If we don't watch out, that "number" will indeed only get bigger. The VVD does choose to focus all energy on getting the leak above and then close that leak. Let's hope that's effective enough to make sure that's what I'm saying once again that we know how to get the numbers down so that we don't have to stop our energy in searching for maximum values.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u47	I welcome Mr Taverne's realism. It is not simply a matter of closing the borders or doing all the shelter in the region. The point is that we take the people who do come here in a good way and ensure that there are sufficient resources to do so carefully. So I am pleased with these constructive sounds from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr Van Veldhoven is a positive person. That's how I know her. So she also interprets positive and generously, but I think the port of my story is mainly that we need to get the leak upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u49	A leak implies that a border is not closed. I welcome the realism from the VVD that we cannot absorb everything in the region. Yes, there is another leak. We all hope that we can close that leak by stabilising the region and preventing people from feeling the need to leave home and fireplace at all. So I like to join the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u50	The fact that there is a leak seems to me to be a truss, as it is called in English. Bringing aid and trade under the responsibility of one minister is not the only major innovation. In other areas, too, Dutch development cooperation policy seems to have been modernised. For example, the number of countries with which the Netherlands has a direct aid relationship, the so-called partner countries, has been reduced to 15. Less development aid organisations receive money from the OS funds and the organisations that do have less dependence on government subsidies. This policy now focuses on four key areas: water, food security, security and the rule of law, and finally SRGR. These are areas in which the Netherlands claims to have added value. They are all improvements in view of this. As far as the Minister has had his hand in this matter, she deserves to be praised for this. However, to some extent it is old wine in new bags, as the number of partner countries may have been reduced, the number of non-partner countries receiving Dutch development aid money is still high. They only do not get that directly from the Netherlands, but it is spent through one of the NGOs, whether or not they are Dutch. The number of aid organisations receiving money from Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation may be lower than before, the main reason for this is that aid organisations are more often working together to qualify for Dutch OS money. For example, the number of organisations representing part of the EUR 200 million allocated to "conflict and contradiction" at first sight is 25. In reality, these are 25 partnerships, resulting in 68 organisations receiving one or more contributions from the OS funds. Modelling the OS policy along four spearheads is in itself a sensible choice, but ignores the fact that our OS policy is still essentially supply-driven. And that, according to the VVD Group, is at the heart of the problem. Dutch development aid policy still has a post-colonial, paternalistic character, in which we are being held hostage by the now obsolete 0.7%-ODA standard. Where there is no fixed amount to be spent in any government area, development aid is still the starting point, leading to perverse incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u51	It is a firm conclusion from Mr Taverne. What evaluation shows that there is a post-colonial and paternalistic nature? What research is the basis for this? Can the VVD please us with the analysis that is behind this or is it just an image that Mr Taverne wants to present?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u52	There are a number of aspects to it. I would like to touch on the effectiveness of development aid. The BOR has carried out an investigation into this and last Monday we were informed by rapporteurs about the results. We have had a debate on this together with Mr Van Laar. It seems obvious that it is postcolonial, because it is policy from the period after the Netherlands was a colonial power. Paternalistic in the sense that we tell how countries can do better. We have an offer of subjects in which we do so. And that is what these countries have to accept. So it is more a definition and a determination than something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u53	I would say: if only we were to spend 0.7%. This cabinet didn't exactly do that. Mr Taverne calls it supply-driven, but does he really think that there is no demand for education, that there is no demand for medicine, that there is no demand for human rights, that gays, which the VVD traditionally advocated, say: let us die under the dictator? I am a little surprised at the label "offer driven" that the VVD puts on this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u54	It's a very simple observation. In view of the way in which the OS policy has been organised, namely with spearheads and a number of cutting themes, we have said for all kinds of reasons: this is what we are good at, this is where we have something extra to offer. It's up to the countries to choose from it. Of course, there's no country that says don't. But in the nature of the case, the offer is driven. If a country wants Dutch OS help in the area of automotive industry, it is not in the package and cannot therefore be offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr Taverne is confusing two things. Offering is something else than when it comes to a very big question, the question is whether you say: we concentrate our resources or we spread them very thinly. Perhaps Mr Taverne should take another look at how wide the demand, worldwide, for medicines, education, sustainable growth and human rights support is. Then he has to ask again whether there is an oversupply or overdemand. That's why we've concentrated our resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u56	I didn't use either of these qualifications. I do not deny at all that there is an enormous demand for everything in the countries to which we give development aid. I simply note that the way in which we have shaped our policy is supply-driven and supply-oriented. And again, there are all arguments behind that. However, there is nothing else I can do about it. It is not so that we have a window in which a quarter can be thrown on one side, which is fortunately also called "the Netherlands' and that the Netherlands is running. It's what it is. Can the Minister explain what is going on with the modernisation of the ODA standard? What is the Dutch commitment to this? What results does the Minister expect? At least taking the ODA standard as a starting point for what we spend on development aid did not contribute to the effectiveness of these expenditures. I have just mentioned to Mr Van Laar that during the legislative consultation on last Monday's budget, it has become painfully clear that most of what the Netherlands spends on development aid, it is impossible or hardly possible to determine whether it has had any effect. At least it cannot be found in the budget. The main reason for this is that it indicates what the money is spent on, but that no indicators can be established in advance to measure ex post whether it has actually helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u57	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to make the factual observation that in the WHO we found that it was not clear in the budget, but that there were two large boxes of reports that dealt with this effectiveness. I think it is important for the purity of the debate to continue to separate those two things in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u58	I would like to thank Mr Van Veldhoven for the clarification. I just read that at least it is not in the budget. I think I said it, but you can never say it too often. Moreover, the results of the study should not have been a surprise for this Chamber, including myself, since the Minister himself wrote on page 4 of the budget: "The possibilities for quantitative impact measurement for most foreign trade and development cooperation policy areas are limited." This contributes to the image that OS money is being distributed with the best of intentions, so you can't really be against it, without really being able to check whether it has helped in practice. This is not only detrimental to the acceptance of development aid, but it also undermines Parliament's supervisory role. The VVD Group is therefore waiting with interest for the improvements that the Minister promised in the debate last Monday. It is not only the poor measureability of the effects of our OS policy that undermines Parliament's budgetary right. The payment of large sums of money through multilateral organisations, such as the UN and the World Bank, will also make it difficult to check whether the money is being spent properly. Although the Court formally accords the contribution to this type of organisation to the budget, it is hardly possible to find out what happens to it. That, too, should not have been a surprise, since the Minister also exonrates himself in her budget with the words: Often there is a joint reading: international effort in which it makes little sense to attribute part of the results to the Netherlands that has provided part of the input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u59	That's a big step back home, isn't it? We have had extensive debates, including on multilateral organisations. That's what extensive evaluations, score cards, have been made of. Among other things, Mr Taverne's party benefited from this. He has tabled an amendment to shift certain funds for 35 million to those that are effective. Does Mr Taverne mean to say that these multilateral organisations are not transparent? What exactly is your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u60	My point is exactly what I am saying, namely that, apart from scorecards, something has already been improved. The starting point, whereby you transfer large amounts of taxpayers' money to multilateral organisations, which is quite understandable from the point of view that you are stronger together and that you can do more together, is inherently the problem of democratic control. Here we can call the Minister again to the Chamber if we think something is not going well. This is seen far less in organizations such as the UN and the World Bank. My position is that the World Bank, for example, has been working and operating on a large scale in a way that we have not accepted from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation for 25 years. I am sure this is also the case at the UN, but I know the World Bank a little bit closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u61	I can go a long way with Mr Taverne, because transparency can indeed be even better. We already have the scorecards for this in the case of the UN institutions. I wonder where the story's going. We had the MFS II evaluation and it came out: efficient and effective. Does Mr Taverne want a shift to the private channel? If so, I'll help him with all my love.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u62	I am afraid that what the VVD wants with development cooperation cannot count on very much support in the Chamber. As long as we continue to spend large amounts of OS money, we want every euro to be spent as well and effectively as possible. In my opinion, that is completely separate from whether you are in favour or against or whether it should be otherwise. Expenditure must continue to be verifiable. That is why I believe that we have had the right debate on Monday. In other words, the Chamber must be able to fully exercise its role as a democratic controller. It is difficult and difficult to do so on the basis of the current budget, as we decided last Monday. Fortunately, the Minister has agreed to take part in improvements. It also applies, of course, to multilateral organisations. A democratic gap has been created there, whether you like it or not. That's a simple observation. As a result, the Chamber cannot give optimal content to its controlling task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u63	Before I give the floor to Mr Klaver, I would ask everyone to put short and concise questions and give short and concise answers. The clock doesn't stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr President, we will try. It is good that Mr Taverne is trying to be as politically neutral as possible, because who is against efficiency or preventing the House's budget right from being undermined? That is no one, of course, and that is why I am trying to find out whether there is any political motive behind it. I do that because development cooperation organisations are not exactly the hobby of the VVD and because the VVD should not have so much of multilateral organisations either. I have been surprised that a great deal of money is being spent on development cooperation through industry. For this we also have the posts providing excellent economic services. I have no idea who's using that. I don't know if there's any little crooks between these companies either. Does my colleague from the VVD, Mr Taverne, agree that this should also be transparent and transparent? I myself am very curious to know if there are any crooks among these companies, crooks who use our taxpayers' money to try to do all kinds of things in the Third World.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u65	The starting point of the VVD Group is that the way taxpayers' money is spent must always be transparent and verifiable. The same applies to Mr Klaver's examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u66	I am considering a motion in the second term in which I ask the Minister to give the Chamber a comprehensive overview of the subsidies that go indirectly or indirectly to business through development cooperation. Can that motion count on the warm agreement of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u67	I'm not judging a motion until it's in front of me. If Mr Klaver were to extend it to all subsidies granted in the field of external trade and development cooperation, the VVD would be able to take a favourable look at this. Of course, the condition is that it is not an unnecessary motion. Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree with the VVD Group that it makes sense for the Dutch taxpayer to know whether the Dutch contribution was relevant to the result? Or should the taxpayer be okay with finding out whether his or her contribution to the 4.1 billion we all spend on development aid every year has had any effect? Is the Minister prepared to steer much more towards outcome, output and efficiency of projects? Apart from the lack of transparency in the Minister's accounts, partly maintained by the cramped adherence to an outdated ODA standard, the way we provide development aid is also old-fashioned, because it is, as has been said, fully supply-driven. In addition, the spearheads do not always address the crucial problems. One of the biggest challenges facing the African continent is its future population size. According to the Generation 2030 / Africa report, this is an excuse for UNICEF's English version of 1.2 billion people. By 2050 this is expected to be 2.4 billion and by 2100 expected to be 4.2 billion. While on average 2.33 children per woman are needed to maintain a stable population, African women have an average of 4.7 children, which is 1.7 children on average in the Netherlands. The causes of this can be cultural and religious, but are often also the result of a lack of knowledge and means of family planning. This limits women's freedom of choice to decide for themselves whether they want to have children and then how many. This lack of freedom of choice can have far-reaching consequences for women's health, for children born in large families and an economically weak environment and for the demographic development of the continent. Does the Minister recognise these risks and possible consequences? Is the Minister prepared to pay extra attention to women's right to self-determination within the priority of SRGR (sexual and reproductive health and rights)? On this point, I have an amendment in preparation, partly on the basis of the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. Chairman. Today we live in an uncertain and chaotic world. Foreign policy is in the spotlight more than ever. At the edges of Europe, wars rage and the situation is threatening. And more than a week ago, we were faced with terrorist attacks in our region. We are seeing large migratory flows in progress and, unfortunately, there still seems to be no prospect of improving the situation in Syria and Libya, for example. This unrest and chaos also call for attention from the budget for external trade and development cooperation, not only because we want to show solidarity with the poorest in the world, but also because the Netherlands itself benefits from a good foreign trade and development cooperation policy. During this budget debate, I will deal in turn with the refugee issue, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), civil society, the priorities and business policy. If there's any time left, I'll go into climate issues as well. The Netherlands benefits from development cooperation to get and keep the flow of migration manageable. During the legislative consultation, we have already discussed the high costs for the first-year reception of asylum seekers. In her letter, on which we have just had a point of order, the Minister writes about the adjustment of the budgetary system. The question is to what extent this is still properly budgeted. We ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs for new estimates with a real assessment. What are the implications and risks for the other projects in the budget? Can the Minister provide an insight into the implications for this budget? It concerns 58,000 people and everyone is offered a bed, as has been said. The CDA wants that, too. The Netherlands currently has 15 partner countries. A choice has already been made for these countries at an earlier stage, before Europe was confronted with large migratory flows. Now that this situation has arisen, it is good to see whether these funds can still be used best. To what extent has the Minister considered transferring funds to fragile states in the region in a ring around Europe? Reception of refugees in the region is necessary, both for the refugees and for ourselves, to keep migratory flows in Europe manageable, but above all because this will allow refugees to return to their home countries more quickly after the conflict. VVD and PvdA have made 35 million euros available for this. The CDA supports this change. We call on the Minister to encourage her colleagues in the European Union to make money available for this. It is precisely for this reason that a good contribution to emergency aid is also indispensable during this period. The UN has already indicated that, like this year, EUR 7 billion is needed. Can the Minister promise that emergency aid funds will be used as a priority in the region around Europe? We see that other donors are failing to honour their commitments. What will the Minister do to ensure that they do so? The CDA also likes to look at alternative forms of support, as the colleague of the VVD Group has already indicated. To what extent can we reward countries with trade facilitation when they really do their best? For example, I am looking at Lebanon, a country with 4.5 million inhabitants, which receives more than 1 million people. Our compliments on this country doing so this way. The SP has already made comments on the Valletta Summit. I'm curious to hear the answers to the SP's questions. The CDA also asks these questions. The Netherlands voluntarily contributes EUR 15 million, making almost the largest contribution. The European Commission filled the pot with EUR 1.8 billion. How does the Minister see this contribution from the European Union in relation to the problems of migration? How, according to the Minister, will this pot be used effectively to prevent migration? To what extent does this 1.8 billion overlap the 50 million that the Minister brought out before the summer to tackle the root cause of migration? Has the Minister been given a commitment in Europe to, for example, redirecting general budget support towards investment to prevent migration and to use it for emergency aid and even for first-year shelter if it so wishes? I have already made comments about the EUR 50 million that the Minister has earmarked for the summer, particularly for Ghana, Côte d'Ivoire and Senegal, in the interim debate with Mr Taverne. How does the Minister see it in relation to return? With the EUR 50 million, will it really have an impact on the objective of tackling the problem of migration? The Minister was not very clear about this when he answered the factual questions. Would it not be better for the Minister to use these resources to provide more prospects for refugees in refugee camps? What can vocational education do? In previous years, together with the SGP, we have asked for this more often. The Netherlands, as President of the European Union, will be able to take a leading role in key issues in the coming year. The new Sustainable Development Goals are still unclear, as are the financing of this project. How does the Minister involve its fellow ministers to increase policy coherence at EU level? According to the CDA, this is where the lack of transparency and clear indicators is vengeful, as we identified and discussed during the legislative consultation earlier this week. During the same legislative consultation, we discussed the impact of the costs of first-year care on civil society. The Minister has not been able to reassure us that she is also going to reach her own commitments to use 25% through civil society. Her warning was that the percentage would go down even further, but that the amount would remain the same. We ask the Minister to clarify this figure. What amounts from the budget are available to civil society? We would also like to know this for the multilateral channel and the bilateral channel. Then the spearheads. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister. We see that she is constantly working for SRGR and women's rights. The role of women and girls must not be underestimated, both in the prevention of conflicts and in the mediation of conflicts and also in the construction of a stable society. Unfortunately, the CDA notes that EUR 34 million is less devoted to the rule of law development, reconstruction and peace-building. Can the Minister explain this choice? How does it think that stability can be guaranteed when our borders and countries at our borders are on fire? I come to the financial flows towards business. There will be a new facility: the Dutch Trade and Investment Fund. The Minister wants to do the marketing for this new fund through the banks. It seems to the CDA to be too limited to do this only through the banks. We would like to know to what extent the Minister is using the KvK Enterprise Square for this purpose. I'll come to a conclusion. We discussed climate change very extensively in this Chamber last night and our commitment to the Paris Summit. Private parties can have a very important influence on this. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister how she looks at the latest state of affairs in Burundi and the Central African Republic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u69	The Minister recently presented two new climate funds, bringing together hundreds of millions and private cooperation. This is a wonderful initiative. Mrs Mulder asks what the Minister thinks, but I would like to know what the CDA thinks, because I think it is worth a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u70	We were at the same debate last night and it turned out that it was not quite clear exactly how private commitment should be included in climate finance. At the moment that this is not quite clear, you can set up a fund here, but you would like to know that things go hand in hand together. Last night I also gave examples of very good climate policy in the Netherlands. We have been on the road together this summer in Rwanda and Uganda. We have seen what the Netherlands is doing about climate. These are very concrete examples where agriculture can also be a solution to the climate. If such projects are all included, the CDA is worth a sweet thing. If that is not the case, then perhaps we are not on the right track. I would like an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u71	These were questions, but the Prime Minister has made it crystal clear, for example, that loans can be counted according to agreed standards. This Minister says very clearly that we are making 50 million available for this. It is quite clear to my group, but also to everyone who has followed this debate, that this cabinet is making a lot of money available. Isn't that worth a compliment from the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u72	That is what we discussed extensively with each other last night. Unfortunately, this minister was not there, so I like to hear it from her own mouth. I think that's fine, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman. On March 17, 1863, 152 years ago, 30 Leiden manufacturers sent an address to King Willem III. They told him "with the greatest respect (...) that they moved with the state of the children working in factories, and convinced of the urgent necessity of any mandatory arrangement concerning the education, hours of work, and rested their children, having the duty to ask Your Majesty respectfully to have such arrangement designed, and to have it determined by decision or by agreement with the States General." In other words, these manufacturers asked for legislation to protect children who worked in their own factories: partly out of involvement, partly for competition reasons and perhaps partly because others were involved and they didn't want to be left behind. In any case, they decided to become part of the solution of child labour rather than just being part of the problem. The courage and wisdom shown by these manufacturers, fortunately, we are still seeing today. There are companies that stick their necks out and invest in combating child labour and promoting fair work. Fair work is work that adults do under responsible conditions and against viable working conditions, i.e. work that does not harm their health and earns enough wages to feed their families. Unfortunately, the companies that stick their necks out are only a small breakaway. Many companies move a bit along, but hide in the peloton, to stay in cycling terms. Only when a report on abuses appears are they willing to ride a little harder, often temporarily. Those who do not know how to cycle harder, but also companies that are not paying attention or even actively squeeze their brakes, continue to produce products that are made under appalling conditions. They can also be freely sold in the Netherlands. There's no law that's gonna get in their way. Child slavery still affects tens of millions of children. A total of 168 million children work. The cocoa, the tin, the coffee, the cotton, the seeds and the gold that are the product, eat, drink, use and carry all of us. Unfortunately, although manufacturers are no longer asking for it, the Labour Party has nevertheless taken the initiative to include this international duty of caring for children in a law. Only in this way can we ensure that every company that wants to sell products in the Netherlands does what is necessary to prevent child labour in those products. At the same time, the Labour Party wants to seduce companies to go cycling in the leading group. That is why, in June, we launched the idea of creating a fund against child labour. Companies can apply for a doubling of an investment in system solutions against child labour, such as education. Companies that want to combat child labour effectively often run into their own borders. They have little influence on the amount of schools or the quality of teachers in the region. They also do not have the time or capacity to change legislation or to guide the children individually, so that they do not end up in the drip from the rain. We have received many positive reactions to this fund, not least from companies that are really waiting for it. That is why the Labour Party, together with D66, has tabled an amendment to allocate EUR 5 million for this next year. If there are plenty of companies with ambition, next year we'll just get on with it. Today we are discussing the budget for external trade and development cooperation. I will concentrate mainly on development cooperation and colleague Jan Vos on external trade. The budget is under pressure. We have agreed on new world goals that require much-needed investment. The emergency aid system is hit by more refugees than ever before and countries certainly did not contribute enough until a few months ago. We also see a greatly increased influx of asylum seekers in the Netherlands, of whom we also count the first year care as development aid. The Labour Party, together with the Christian Union, has therefore tabled a motion which has been adopted to ensure that further expenditure on emergency aid in the region and the reception of asylum seekers in the Netherlands is not at the expense of the programmes within the Development Cooperation budget. This means for the Labour Party that the budget for development cooperation, excluding the reception of asylum seekers and emergency aid in the region, should remain at least at the level of 2015. I assume that the cabinet will carry out this motion and look forward to the proposals on the Navy's note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u74	It's a motion we filed together. The fact is that we need to vote on this budget before we talk in the Chamber about the Autumn note. This means that this minister still has a hole to fill, with the cooperation of her colleagues, in order to get to that, let us say, 500 million. Does the Labour Party agree that the Minister should at least give an indication as to whether that gap is going to be closed? Or does she say, "We'll wait and see the Navy's note?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u75	If we have to wait until we know how many asylum seekers came to the Netherlands in 2016 to establish this budget, it will be until 31 December 2016. Until then there will be fluctuations and we will have to adjust the budget upwards or downwards. We have a budgetary system that works for that. We have also tabled a motion, together, to ensure that what we do not want is not done, namely that only one euro is saved on an ongoing or ongoing OS programme. That's enough for us. We know where the cabinet can find the money and find it. There will be enough money, because the reception of asylum seekers is simply something we must do. That's an open-ended arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u76	We have seen over the past few years that 700 million had to be squeezed in. We have seen in the budget that this has been done through all kinds of cash slides. We've even mortgaged GDP growth by 2020. We can't repeat that little wiggle anymore. Does the Labour Party now also say that, if it does, we will undoubtedly have to be higher than that 27 000 jobs, and that this can not only be done from the budget of this minister, but that other ministries would also have to contribute to the first-year care?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u77	Every time we have a bnp-meevaller, we can use it. That's what's happened so far. If those windfalls continue to occur, then that can just be almost infinite, because a prognosis is just a prognosis we can use that money. If that does not provide enough money, we have clearly stated in the motion where the money is to be sought. At least that is not with running OS programs. Doesn't look like a word of Spanish to me. That was also the intention of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u78	The letter we have just received says that, for example, 35 million is still being covered within the OS budget. How can we be sure that no euro will be derived from the programmes that Mr Van Laar has just described?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u79	We'll know that for sure when we ask the Minister. It has to be about money that's left, otherwise it can't be explained in relation to the motion. Perhaps the amount had already been allocated before the motion had been tabled. It could be. I think we're gonna hear from the Minister tomorrow how that went.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u80	I would like to put that question to the Minister with Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u81	I've been talking about emergency aid. This summer, the emergency aid system was hit by a lack of money for all the organisations. For example, food rations were reduced to far below the minimum level. This has helped to increase the number of refugees coming to Europe. The number of migrants also increased. The question of how we can eliminate the root causes of forced and voluntary migration is therefore very much in the interest of the Labour Party in the coming period and therefore in our budgetary input. Let's start with the failing emergency response. The financing of emergency aid must change, from voluntary donations to the guarantee of human rights. This means that we never give a registered refugee less food than the minimum and that we also guarantee other basic needs. The account is shared jointly by all countries in such a case. There should be a system of compulsory contributions to emergency aid organisations and/or the CERF, the fund that distributes the funds, with ex post payments if deficits persist. In addition, countries can make voluntary contributions. Does the Minister agree with the Labour Party on this? Moreover, the Netherlands is not expected to have to contribute anymore because it is already among the top ten donors, but other countries will have to take a step further. Education is such a basic need. The lack of education is also a reason for many families and young people to leave. Can the Minister promise that at least 4% of all emergency aid will continue to be spent on education, as has also been agreed internationally? This is also the norm accepted by the EU. Is the cabinet also prepared to add this standard to the commitment of the Netherlands and the EU to the humanitarian summit in 2016? A lack of food does not only affect refugees. In a country such as Ethiopia, sufficient and varied food remains a huge challenge. That might be the understatement of the year. In Ethiopia there is a threat of famine and famine forces many people to migration. We now know that children suffer from malnutrition at a young age throughout their lives. This so-called "stunting" leads to underdeveloped bodies and brains, and reduces children's chances of a future without poverty. In a country like Burundi, as many as 40% of children suffer from this. The fact that children are entitled to these opportunities has always been a starting point for the Labour Party. That's why the SP and the PvdA tabled a motion last year to allocate more money specifically for programmes against malnutrition. As far as we are concerned, this motion has not been carried out sufficiently. That is why we have tabled an amendment this year to release 5 million extra for food, specifically aimed at those first 1,000 days of a child's life. The Minister has freed up funds for young people in migration countries to start or grow their own business. That was a good start. Does the Minister see any other possibility of making a difference to our industrial tools, especially in fragile states? It is precisely in fragile states that the effects still seem to be left behind. As far as the PvdA is concerned, we are more committed to helping diaspora to undertake in the country or region of origin. They are often the first to start companies when peace and quiet has hardly been reversed and they see opportunities where other entrepreneurs are mainly identifying threats.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr Van Laar refers to the extra money.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's happened before. Does he know how that money is spent, for example, which is the definition of a company and how it is assessed whether the 50 million will ultimately have an effect? Because, of course, it wouldn't be good if they all went into the maritime business there. You need to steer that a little bit. Does Mr Van Laar have any idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u83	We know exactly that, because we have discussed this with this Minister in various debates. We can look at the terms. We know the partners of the DGGF (Dutch Good Growth Fund). We even know who the recipients of the DGGF are. We have the overview of the companies that Mr Taverne is looking for and what Mr Klaver is also looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u84	But that doesn't say anything about the success rate of all these businesses. You can invest 50 million in something, but it's nice to know at some point that it helped. It is wonderful that we know who it was paid out to, and we know that about the whole budget, but we do not know how it is going to work. I am so curious to see how Mr Van Laar is going to check that the 50 million has not only been paid but also has the intended effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u85	That's what we all do. That is why we have the DGGF evaluated. We have just discussed the evaluation, including with Mr Teeven. This shows that the banks that intercede are checking a part of it. In addition, Atradius tests the business plan. For example, it tests whether companies are really viable and have good plans. We see the results of this. Unfortunately, the results in terms of export financing and Dutch entrepreneurs remain somewhat behind, but African entrepreneurs show enormous multiplier effects, both in employment and in economic growth. That's what everyone was Chamberwide to talk about. I think that's right, too. That was a good evaluation of a good programme. In any case, this is the programme 2. There are many more root causes of forced and voluntary migration. We invite the Minister to focus on investing and to remove these root causes. For example, a reconstruction fund, which will have to prove itself again in the next round, should also focus on Syria, Iraq and their neighbouring countries in order to prevent countries and regions where it is still quiet from being sucked into the conflict. What other possibilities does this minister see? Finally, I come to sexual and reproductive rights and health, and the fight against HIV/AIDS. Unabated efforts are needed to further reduce the number of infections and increase the number of people on medication. The results of the fight against HIV/AIDS are impressive and yet we still see too many new infections, especially among girls in Africa, i.e. young girls of adolescents. The PvdA will probably present a proposal tomorrow together with the VVD. That's what the VVD has been talking about. Well-functioning UN organisations must be rewarded. That is also what happened with the amendment tabled by the PvdA and the VVD during the Foreign Affairs budget debate. The same applies, of course, to civil society organisations. They have been able to reach marginalised and difficult target groups even more than UN organisations. These are target groups which are essential for the effective fight against HIV and AIDS and for promoting sexual reproductive health and rights. We are therefore in favour of shifting resources from those global players to our own NGOs, because we know how good their work is. I started my input with the Leiden manufacturers who took the initiative to legislate in order to achieve fair work. For my party, honest work is and will continue to be at the heart of our international efforts. In addition to an initiative law and a fund against child labour, my group has also written an initiative paper on fair work. Hundreds of millions of people are still being exploited. They don't get a living wage. The Netherlands can and must do much more to bring that living wage closer. Our own-initiative paper is not on the agenda today, but we are already looking forward to the debate with the Chamber and the Minister on this note. The initial reactions of colleagues and the Minister were, in any case, promising. Together with you, the PvdA wants to continue to take steps towards fair work worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u86	The PvdA wants to take steps with us. The PvdA has taken steps with us in the past, because Jan Pronk is the great instigator of development aid in the Netherlands. I'll give you a few figures. We financed the FRELIMO that killed 80,000 to 250,000 people. We financed the MPLA in Angola and we saw 25,000 deaths there. The ANC has 20,000 dead and the ZANU-PF of Mugabe 80,000 dead. Those are the results of the PvdA. Are you willing to apologize to all those people who were murdered with Dutch tax money issued under the direction of a PvdA minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u87	I think that Mr Bosma has just shown that you can indeed make it look as if you are making a point by mentioning a lot of figures, but that you can still interpret history completely wrongly. I wish him well with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u88	Do I understand that the PvdA denies all these genocides? Do you deny that Frelimo killed hundreds of thousands of people? Do you deny that the MPLA killed 25,000 people, funded by taxpayers' money, paid by Jan Pronk? Do you deny all that? Don't you know the history of your own party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u89	That it was paid by Jan Pronk I will at least always deny, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr Van Laar was just talking about diaspora when Mr Taverne crawled in with another question. Can I see from his speech that my amendment can also count on the approval of the PvdA, bearing in mind that, of course, England and France are already making much more use of their African inhabitants? Maybe I should have shared it a little more extensively, but lack of time didn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u91	For some time now, we have been calling for the DGGF to be truly accessible to diaspora, so diaspora should also be helped with the applications if necessary. We need to raise the profile of DGGF with the diaspora schemes and also strengthen the link between DGGF and migration and development policies. Entrepreneurs participating in migration and development should also have easy access to DGGF. We do, however, see that a quarter of the entrepreneurs undertaking in the fragile states with the help of DGGF come from diaspora. To separate a small part of the fund and say that diaspora should be there, seems counterproductive to me. On the contrary, we must ensure that diaspora will make use of a larger proportion of the entire fund for their entrepreneurial activities. We need to bet on that and not separate them with another criterion. The fund should be accessible to entrepreneurs with good plans, whether they are diaspora or not. However, experience has shown that we need to use extra resources to reach and operate this diaspora.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u92	Mr Smalilng and then a brief reply from Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u93	There have recently been meetings in which the Minister has also been present. This shows that the Netherlands makes relatively little use of the diaspora compared to other countries, which have a large African community. So let us make use of the catalysing role of the diaspora, particularly because we are currently so busy with the question of how to curb migration. I mean, everyone is free to travel around the world, but it's really a priority to work on that now. So I think this is the time to give that impetus. That amendment offers that possibility. So I ask the PvdA again: can we talk about that? Because it's worth a lot to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u94	As I know the amendment now, I think it will be counterproductive. I'll study it. We will also listen carefully to what the Minister says about this. Our commitment is precisely to allow the diaspora to use a larger part of the DGGF. There's definitely great potential in that. There are things we can do for that, which I have just outlined. I think we should go that way. So there's a difference, but the goal is the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u95	Mr. Chairman. This weekend I went with my daughter to the Oranjezaal in Huis ten Bosch. In that beautiful hall of that beautiful house, which should actually be permanently accessible to the public given the amount of money we put into it, was also a video exhibition. There were the first images of Wilhelmina, who received people there because the International Court of Justice was established. That was the time of the League of Nations. At that time, governments, as well as our Head of State, had a great interest in international cooperation, in setting up international organisations such as the United Nations, the League of Nations, the European Union and the International Criminal Court. At the time of two major world wars, our leaders knew that it would be a great danger to world peace if you did not cooperate internationally and had no strong institutions. I have to hand it to this cabinet: after years of national navel staring, the minister travels, travels all cabinet members, the world. That international agenda is back. Country after country is affected and there is a growing awareness that the Netherlands is a small country in a large world. Yet something is gnawing at my group. When I saw in that video with Wilhelmina how much attention there was for these beautiful international institutions, I realized that my cabinet, the cabinet that this Labour Party participates in, mainly organizes trade missions. I see cabinet member after cabinet member go on trade mission and with a lot of companies make sure that we earn more euros. Of course there is nothing wrong with that, but where is the realization that more is needed than just that? Where is the awareness that the job description for the leadership of this country covers more than traveling around as an altarpiece of business? I think the Minister would like to respond to that, but if it is not, I would ask her to do so. I explained earlier in this Chamber that there are more and more sujets in power in the world that combine money and political power; they are plutocrates. If you want to do business with those kind of leaders, you should know it's more than a trade mission. I wonder what this cabinet has recently done in a number of Arab countries, such as Saudi Arabia, and in Iran. Those are oil producing countries. From such a country where the oil resources are being exploited, a colleague of this minister responded to the climate plans of this cabinet by saying that it could all be a bit less. That's not what we want. Climate change, together with peace and security, is one of the biggest problems of our time. They can only be dealt with in an international perspective. Next week, a major climate summit will begin in Paris. I ask the Minister to show the commitment she has shown in her budget. The cabinet invests in two climate funds............................................................................................................................................................................................. After all, in this way, we can combine our international responsibility, the reduction of CO emissions that threatens our living environment, with the best way to organise innovations, namely in a business way, which means that green energy gains from fossil energy. I have some questions for the Minister about that fund. The total amount of this fund is EUR 200 million. The Netherlands contributes a quarter of this, if I have understood correctly, because I have had to hear this information in the newspaper, i.e. EUR 50 million. How many other commitments have been made? Which Dutch pension funds is the Minister talking to? Can she tell us more about the Danish model to which she refers? What exactly does that model look like? The Minister also talks about cooperation with pension funds. I think that's a good thing. ABP and PGGM have recently announced that they will adjust their investment policies very significantly. PGGM said it wants to reduce its CO emissions by 50% within 15 years and ABP said it wants to reduce its footprint by 25% within five years. They do this by saying goodbye to polluting companies and by investing more in clean businesses. This practice of these internationally highly renowned funds, which invest worldwide, will contribute greatly to the changes in the world that this cabinet, too, I know, stands for: a cleaner environment and less CO pollution that warms up our planet. This warming is causing misery especially in poor countries. Recently, the World Bank has issued a report stating that 100 million poor people will be added as a result of climate change. Prince Charles recently gave an interview in which he said that the problems in Syria were partly and perhaps even mainly due to a large drought due to climate change for many years. Does the Minister share Prince Charles' analysis? To what extent does it think that the funds it has set up can contribute to reducing the major climate problems? Anyone who wants to lay foundations for sustainable economic growth and thus kick-start African and Asian prosperity in traditionally very poor countries must go beyond a trade mission, as I argued earlier, but must also go beyond simple projects in those countries. I would like to draw attention to what Chinese, German and English are doing more and more. They develop large regions on the basis of extensive plans and push away more traditionally oriented countries, such as the Netherlands. That doesn't always work out in a way that we like. It is often at the expense of working conditions in the areas being developed and often at the expense of the environment in those areas. I think we should put something on the other side of that. We must go along with our time and the way in which we work in the large areas that are being developed, which make corridors, a Dutch way of working. I would like to draw the attention of the Minister to the way in which the FMO has tried to do so. I would also like to draw attention to the way in which the national authorities of the countries mentioned above, including European countries such as England and Germany, are increasingly using guarantees to support their businesses in these corridors. Are we not threatening to be a little behind in this respect? Shouldn't we be dealing with this in a different way? From my group there has been a lot of criticism of TTIP. It seems to me appropriate to note here that the open discussion and political alignment of TTIP has led to changes. For example, the pressure on the Commission to keep its promise not to interfere with European standards on food and environmental safety has increased very much. The ESC is currently examining, at the request of the government, the impact of TTIP on the Dutch labour market, so that we do not have American conditions here at McDonald's and elsewhere in our society. The Commission has also, last but not least, made an improved proposal for investment protection. Minister Ploumen has made a very significant contribution to this, for which I would like to congratulate her. In addition, important steps have been taken on transparency at the request of the SP Group. I have also heard that the VVD Group, Mr Teeven, has taken the opportunity to actually see the Treaty in Brussels. If we remain critical, TTIP offers a unique opportunity to set a global standard for what we mean by fair trade. Differences with the US are frequently highlighted, but there is no economy closer to European standards and values than that of the same United States. TTIP is thus an opportunity to promote economic growth where fair jobs arise. I would like to add that this should only be done under the right conditions. The Labour Party has laid it down before. Yesterday there was also talk in this Chamber about the so-called carve out in the field of climate. The point is that the companies at the Investment Court System cannot claim a change in legislation to take environmental measures to combat global warming. That carve out was discussed yesterday in the context of the negotiations on the climate in Paris. The Christian Union and GroenLinks were particularly charmed by this. Secretary of State Dijksma then responded with a negative appreciation, because she felt that this would make negotiations too difficult. I ask the Minister whether it is an idea to include such a carve out in TTIP, i.e. in the trade agreement with the US itself. Then we rule out changes in climate legislation from claims at that court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u96	I have a small technical question. Does Mr Vos mean by that carve out that companies should no longer be compensated, for example if the Netherlands decided to close the coal plants? Or should things like that remain possible? I just want to understand what Mr Vos is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u97	I hesitate for a moment, because I tend to have a whole exposition, but the President does not like it. I am concerned that we should deprive companies of the opportunity to take proceedings against a state in that court when it comes to actual climate action. We know that emission requirements are being increased. The question is whether there should be compensation. Anyone who builds a coal power station can know that there is a lot of CO coming out of it and that, at some point in time, politics is going to hit him. If we were to compensate, we would have to avoid any claims. Next week we will be talking to the Minister about international corporate social responsibility. Recently it was a big shock for everyone to see what Volkswagen had fought for each other in Germany. In the Netherlands the word "shuttlestream" has been mentioned before. That's where shuffle diesel has been added. We've had cheeky bankers for a long time. In addition, I wonder, firstly, whether we should not even look at our legislation. The legislation on white-collar crime is much stricter in the United States than it is here in the Netherlands. Mr Recourt has also talked about this on a regular basis. Secondly, it is very important for us to have an independent supervisor in the Netherlands who can actually touch on international companies not only in these areas, but also in the areas that my colleague Mr Van Laar talked about, for example child labour, and who can actually take action if there are abuses. That was my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u98	I see that Mr Smaling has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u99	I have a question about TTIP. I have a bit of the same feeling as yesterday when the climate bill was presented. Shortly before, the Labour Party supported that the Empire appealed against the Urgenda ruling, but then the PvdA came up with a climate law. What is the state of love between the Labour Party and TTIP? Not so long ago I heard Mr Maij in the Chamber and Mr Jongerius in the European Parliament. Like the Minister Mordicus, they were against it. But now I hear again "it's done." If you look at CETA and Romania, the example I gave you, you would say: don't!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u100	The Labour Party has always taken the view that TTIP can make a valuable contribution to economic growth in the Netherlands, in the United States and even in developing countries, but that conditions must be very strict. We do not want to tolerate the exploitation of our workers, the deterioration of our social rights. We do not want to undermine our environmental standards and we want our food safety to be guaranteed and there will be no hormone meat in the Netherlands, to mention just a few of the examples. In doing so, I and your colleague, Mr Van Dijk, moved in together. I also supported him in his request for greater transparency. So we're critical, but we don't just rule out TTIP, like your party does. I have recently tabled a motion to amend the ISDS clause in CETA and to make it a public court, as we did with TTIP. So we are also extremely critical in this respect. But we're not Red Tomato. We are of constructive cooperation and trying to make something of it in this world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u101	Okay, a short question and a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u102	With the Red Tomato you can work well together. I still have a bit of a question as to whether the added value of such a large trade agreement has been clearly demonstrated for the PvdA. Look, we're already trade animals of our own. If Mr. Vos and I go abroad and the ambassador organises an evening, you'll be amazed at all those who aren't there. Dutch people who invest or are active abroad. You can leave it to us to act. So I don't see the added value on top of what we're standing on as a trading nation. I think the risks are far too great, still, despite the steps that have been taken. But that does not apply to Mr Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u103	I have just said that I find it strange that this cabinet goes on trade mission after trade mission and that I hear so little about all the other things that are important when you work together internationally. I think that we can also conclude with TTIP that the cabinet was very pleased with the free trade opportunities, but that the PvdA Group in the Chamber and in particular my colleague Jongerius in the European Parliament pointed out to the cabinet that there are other matters of interest. I've already mentioned those things. I won't repeat them, but it's about the values your party and my party share. Only where you say "we can't, we shouldn't and we won't," we say "together we'll figure it out." I have every confidence in that, but I'm keeping a very close eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u104	I shall now give the floor to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u105	Mr. Chairman. Dutch development aid is responsible for the deaths of many tens of thousands of people in Africa: civilians who were innocent, children who would have loved to live, pregnant women, cut open their bellies with machetes. Fire bombs on democratically elected city councilmen. Death with Dutch support. Support from Jan Pronk, support from the Labour Party and support from this Ministry. Support for which this Minister has full responsibility under state law. Development aid is theft of our elderly, our disabled and our sick. Development aid does not bring economic growth to the Third World, which would be necessary for the poorest. Development aid means taxpayers' money for genocides and mass murder. Development aid in the Netherlands only really started under Minister Jan Pronk on the basis of the election programme Keerpunt '72, the joint programme of D66, the PvdA and the PPR. Under Minister Pronk, Den Uyl cabinet, millions and millions of development aid went to the liberation movements in Angola, Mozambique, South Africa, Rhodesia and South-West Africa. Thanks to massive Dutch support, these clubs came to power. That meant a complete disaster for all those countries. To this day, they pay a gruesome price for the progressive idealism of this ministry. What are the young people in Angola calling for today? They're shouting, "Freedom now." But with Dutch money the MPLA came to power and the consequences are terrible. The country has been completely looted for 40 years. The liberation movement turns out to be just a criminal organization, some kind of mafia selling everything that's loose and stuck. Dictator Dos Santos is a multibillionaire. His son is one of Portugal's biggest investors. They bathe in the money while the population suffers in poverty. People with criticism get picked up. All this is done thanks to the Dutch taxpayer who has been allowed to support the MPLA through development aid. The MPLA also committed genocide in 1977, when 25,000, poorest people, innocent civilians were murdered. Thank you, Jan Pronk. Thank you, Labour Party. And so also: thank you, this minister. Rhodesia was once the granary of Africa with its highly successful white farmers. But the Netherlands was going to support the racist Mugabe who chased away or killed the peasants. Now there's hunger. Due to the development aid to Mugabe, this minister is also co-responsible for the genocide of 80,000 Matabeles, carried out with the help of North Korean troops. People were cut to pieces, children burned down, families wiped out, just because they were from the wrong tribe. Thank you, Jan Pronk. Thank you, Labour Party. In Mozambique, the liberation movement Frelimo bombed entire villages with napalm. 80,000 to 250,000 were killed. That club was financed by the Dutch taxpayer. In nine years, 300 million guilders went to the Frelimo and later the government of Mozambique. And now the leader of Frelimo is the richest man in the country. Thank you, Jan Pronk. Thank you, Labour Party. Thank you, Minister Ploumen. Minister Jan Pronk was kind of in love with Julius Nyerere, who was building a better world in Tanzania. That's why he drove millions of farmers off their land to establish socialism. Death, famine, racism, corruption and looting, all of this was financed by Dutch development aid. Thank you, Jan Pronk. Thank you, Labour Party. Thank you, Minister Ploumen. Liberation movement Swapo in Southwest Africa, now Namibia, was financed by development aid. Swapo made people disappear, tortured people. A lot of people can't tell the tale. Thank you, Jan Pronk. Thank you, Labour Party. South Africa is now the most racist country in the world, with 114 racial laws. ANC apartheid: if you're white, you can just get fired. Doing business with the government is virtually out of the question for white companies. There's brown water coming out of the tap, the electricity sometimes doesn't work for hours, the education is the worst in the world, the hospitals are death homes, there's 365,000 unnecessary AIDS deaths because the ANC denied AIDS, the roads collapse, it's a murder paradise, there's rapes on the conveyor belt and there's permanent pocket stuffing through the intensely corrupt ANC, the sister party of the Labour Party, a criminal organization. Comrade Zuma is building a million devouring palace. He says the ANC is more important than South Africa. Strikers, like Marikana, are shot in the back. There's never been more torture than under the ANC. There's never been so many deaths in the police stations. There are demonstrations and riots every day. There is now a threat of famine. Land is in danger of being expropriated. There are the horrible "plaas murder," the massacres with African farmers as victims. Friday there were four attacks with two murders, three attacks with one death yesterday, so I just heard from the farmers' union TLUSA. Afrikaans, the sister language of Dutch, is banned from public life, now also from universities, including Stellenbosch. Hundreds of thousands of Africans have already left the country. There's gonna be a lot more. The Communist ANC received Dutch development aid for years. We were the main sponsor of that party in the 1994 elections. That club also committed genocide. 20,500 civilians, mostly Zulu, were murdered because they stood in the way of the taking over of the ANC. Inkatha, the country's largest antiapartheid movement, was massacred. Dutch taxpayers' money was used for mass murder. While the ANC carried out this genocide, it was actively supported by progressive Netherlands, which acted as cheerleader for this organization. Those liberation movements are destroying everything that's ever been built there. Angola, Mozambique, Rhodesia/Zimbabwe, Southwest Africa/Namibia, South Africa, they have all been carefully demolished with the help of Dutch development aid. They're heading for the failed state, the failed state. They're heading for the third world on fast-track. The liberation movements in Angola, Mozambique, Zimbabwe and South Africa were responsible for genocide. Dutch taxpayers were allowed to co-pay. Money that should have gone to our elderly or to our sick or to our disabled went to the most corrupt clubs imaginable. They committed mass murder and progressive Holland formed the fan club of those organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u106	Is Mr Bosma familiar with the concept of filibuster?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u107	Sure. Since I have three minutes to speak, that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u108	Usually a holy book is used for this and is not quoted from his own work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u109	In Washington, I was able to see a few filibusters up close. They went on till deep into the night. It's seven o'clock now. I don't see the match. Mr President, with your permission, I will continue. In a fair world, Minister Pronk would have been tried by the International Criminal Court in The Hague or he would have been sighing in a dungeon for years for cooperating in four genocides. No Dutchman in history can match that: co-operation and funding of four genocides. In a fair world, Minister Ploumen would go permanently on her bare knees through southern Africa to ask for a change for the destructive work of her ministry. In the Netherlands a cabinet resigned over Srebrenica, an event that took place far before the arrival of that cabinet. There was seven years in between. Recently, a secretary of state left because of a train that was already derailed before she took off. Legally, every minister is responsible for its predecessors. I am not specifically asking for her resignation, but I am asking for an opinion on the funding of at least four genocides and Swapo torture camps by her ministry. The blood on Jan Pronk's hands ended up on Minister Ploumen's hands. I'm very curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u110	This is a striking argument. That's how I can sum it up. I am looking for the point that Mr Bosma is trying to make. I read most of his book. I appreciate that, because he's really been digging. It is also true, of course, that, if you look at African history, several peoples have stood by each other there. However, he is very much relying on the idea that Jan van Riebeeck, for example, arrived in South Africa, as two surprised hottentots saw and another empty country, and that he thought: this is farmland, this is white land. If you go through this to Rhodesia, where Ian Smith really doesn't have such a nice track record, if you look at Mozambique where RENAMO has at least as many bad activities as FRELIMO, if you look at Guinea where Sékou Touré didn't want to do what De Gaulle said, so that the French destroyed everything they could destroy, if you look at Maputo where, when the Portuguese went away, a large flat building under construction...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u111	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u112	My glass is empty by now, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u113	... was filled with cement to get the Mozambicans to start at zero, without even one graduate Mozambican, you have to bear that in mind. Then you should also realize that in front of Dakar there is an island called Gorée, named after Goeree, where the Dutch have taken the slaves away and on which "la porte sans retour" is written. Those people have all crossed the puddle. Mr Bosma should also include this in his next book.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u114	The porte of the question has escaped me a bit. I simply note something very simple, namely that this ministry and this minister, who is responsible for it under state law, has been funding organizations for years and not by chance who are doing the most bizarre things now that they have come to power. They've come to power with Dutch money. In the countries I mentioned, of which Mr Smaling also mentioned a few, there were all kinds of candidates to take over. This ministry apparently belongs to a government picking winners; the Netherlands matters who comes to power in the countries concerned. Mr Smaling also reads these articles on how things are now in Angola, on what kind of gang it is and how badly organized it is. There were all kinds of candidates, but strangely enough, the Netherlands financed the MPLA. That wouldn't have been necessary at all. Now that country has been sighing under an MPLA dictatorship for 40 years. The Dutch taxpayer has financed this and that country has gone all the way to rat fashion. That's not what taxpayers' money is supposed to do, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u115	I would now like to ask a brief question from Mr Smaling. This was just an argument with an answer. So a short question now, Mr Smaling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u116	I'm just having trouble with genocide. Mr Bosma is free to use big words. But with the knowledge of the times when we decided to assist a country or not on some points, can you not now pin everything on a sitting minister and say that these have actually been just wrong choices? I think that's too easy. It will be a very exciting story, which I have listened to with red ears, but then I think: come on, Martin!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u117	Thank you. We're gonna tutoy each other now. Those choices have all been wrong. We don't pay taxes for that, do we? We're not paying taxes to finance the most dubious clubs that are raiding their country right now, are we? Look how it's going in Mozambique now. That land will be completely demolished and looted. There was a reasonable infrastructure, but it was completely demolished by FRELIMO. We have had to finance this; that is the famous development aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u118	I would also like to look at what kind of point Mr Bosma wants to make here. We are talking here about the breadth of the budget for development cooperation. The PVV is against this; it does not want to pay a penny for development cooperation. He uses the example of South Africa. Then I can also ask him whether he would not like to keep his story wide, for example when it comes to achieving the Millennium Goals he knows. He also knows that a large proportion of these eight Millennium Development Goals have been achieved. That didn't fall out of the sky. Indeed, many countries, including the Netherlands, have invested in the smartly formulated goals that many children, many people, have then saved their lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u119	I doubt that. It is a pity that Mr Voordewind did not attend the legislative consultation last Monday evening, where we went very deeply into the budget with the help of two excellent rapporteurs. We have also talked about whether you can look at it in terms of: have the goals been achieved and, if so, what are these goals? Actually, you'll find out that everything is being given away after all. There's a lot going on. The PvdA reported to be very proud of the fact that 800 million condoms have been distributed. For the PvdA that is apparently an end in itself. If you just look at what it's done, you'll see that that's impossible to establish at all. Perhaps things have happened in Africa, but Mr Voordewind cannot in any way make it clear that there is a relationship with the amounts that have been guided here and the things that have been done here. This link cannot be established, not even at the higher level of economic growth versus development aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u120	If there is one ministry where evaluations are made, it is the Ministry of Development Cooperation. The multi's are now being evaluated. You will find me by your side, because I also felt that they were left behind. I myself worked for a private organisation and I can tell you that we had to report on the euro on whether we had achieved our goals. If we hadn't made it to the targets, we'd be holding back. If you are critical of the outstanding objectives of development cooperation, I would say: go read the reports that Mrs Ploumen offered you last Monday evening. I agree with you that the objectives can be clarified in advance. At that point you will find me on your side, but that is not the case with your statement that no results have been achieved. You should first look into the evaluation reports of the IOB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u121	If by those reports you mean the MFS II, then... I didn't print them out but read them on the screen. If I had read them on paper, I would have said: they are an insult to the paper on which they are printed. A first-year social science student shoots hundreds of thousands of holes in that. Methodologically, it's really an insult what was produced. The method varies from country to country. There are no zero measurements, but it says literally: hey, it is striking how bad those Dutch NGOs report on their finances. That method doesn't make any sense. We are going to have a nice debate on this in May and I am happy to take you on a tow. There is absolutely nothing proven!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u122	Everyone finds it horrible to hear that people are being cut up and people are being killed by dictators. But in the anthology, I do miss a very large stream of people who have died over the last twenty years. 600,000 people have died as a result of climate change, but Mr Bosma's party is structuralally blocking climate policy. That party is always on the brakes and I would like to hear if Mr Bosma is prepared to say 'yes, we were wrong' If not, then his words are actually just crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u123	If one is not true, the other would be true: that is also, of course, methodological nonsense. Prince Charles just passed by. I think that Mr Prince Charles' remark means above all that he has had a blow from the mill. 600,000 climate kills! What makes you say that? What makes you say that? It's hard to make in the distance. It is not hard to say that man has an influence on the climate. For 18 or 20 years, the climate has not changed, while CO emissions have risen. No convincing relationship has been demonstrated. The climate always changes! In the seventeenth century beautiful paintings of skating people were made in May. The climate is changing. That's what the climate does. It has never been proven that man has an influence on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u124	In this speech by Mr Bosma, I think a second-class man could shoot another hundred holes. 95% of scientists have long agreed that there is climate change and that human beings have an influence on it. The fact that Mr Bosma does not want to hear that only underlines once again how selective he is in his portrayal of reality and that he is in fact crying only crocodile tears behind the rostrum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u125	No, it proves how critical I am and how slavish D66 swallows all those claims of extremist environmental clubs for sweets. D66 refuses to think for itself and to criticize information itself. The relationship between human activity and climate change has not been demonstrated in any way. 95% is once again a bizarre, but also really bizarre number, just like that 600,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Chairman. The world is on fire. By the end of last year, 1 in every 122 people were on a drift. And that means leaving everything behind. It concerns 60 million people, half of whom are children. Peace, security and a normal existence can be sought in so many places in the world, by war, by violation of human rights, by climate change. Perhaps this year's budget for external trade and development cooperation will be more relevant than ever. I would like to address three points: the situation in Lebanon and Jordan, sustainable development and the position of girls and women. The Netherlands is calling for more reception in the region. But Lebanon and Jordan already capture most of the Syrian refugees. Jordan's population is housing 1 million refugees. 4.5 million Lebanese catch more than 1.5 million Syrians. So that's one Syrian in every three Lebanese, so a guest at every table. Unbelievable numbers. Both countries and the aid organisations active there really need our support. I am not just referring to emergency aid. In April, Mr Sjoerdsma therefore proposed structural support for Jordan and Lebanon. PvdA, VVD and CDA voted that proposal away. However, I am a positive person, so I say today: the coalition parties have fortunately changed their minds. They'll make 35 million available in two years. That's 8 million a year per country. I say to the Minister: let us double that amount through the Dutch Good Growth Fund and give Lebanon access to it. The Minister knows how concerned I am that we do not yet have any clarity on the payments of first-year asylum shelter in the Netherlands from the ODA funds. Colleagues have already spoken about this. How do we prevent the money from going to symptom control instead of structural programmes? How can we guarantee that these structural programmes will not be affected by the flow of refugees, as was also stated in the Slob motion? In the WHO last Monday evening, I proposed to the Minister to create a separate budget article containing these funds. In any case, then, it is easier to understand what is going on with its exhaustion. The minister said she wanted to look at that. I wonder if she's come to a better understanding. I come to talk about sustainable development. This is a subject that is very much to my heart and I know that the Minister is equally concerned. We recently talked about the Sustainable Development Goals. Where do I see the commitment to this in these and the other budgets? Just after the budget debate next week, the climate summit is in Paris. The Netherlands must not only make money available there, but also know-how. Government and business must do so together. Business is a major contributor to climate finance, but the public authorities must also play their part in it. Does the Minister support the international agreement that climate finance should be additional? Can it therefore ensure that this is made more transparent in the budget? The main challenge for the climate is the sustainable growth of developing countries. This offers enormous opportunities for the Dutch business community: dikes in Bangladesh, solar chargers that power the digital revolution in Africa, efficient cooking appliances on wood instead of kerosene, etc., etc. There are examples of cases where aid, trade and climate can be combined very well. A good example is the Orange Grove project of the Dutch embassy in Athens. 50 young entrepreneurs will be given the opportunity to set up their own innovative business. Successfully. I would like to ask the Minister what other countries she would like to roll this out of. Where else can we do this? The Dutch Good Growth Fund also tries to combine aid and trade with sustainable growth. As we discussed with the Minister recently, this is happening with varying degrees of success in the various parts of that fund. Financing local SMEs delivers a lot of results, but export financing is particularly difficult. That is why I propose that the funds under the export financing pillar be transferred to the pillar of investment in local SMEs, but with a right of drawing, I say to the VVD, in case successful and good export financing projects are proposed. That's how we prevent the money from being left unemployed in the bank. My next point concerns gender equality. The Netherlands fights worldwide as one of the few countries for taboo issues such as women's rights. So that's a really big good. This is extremely important, even in 2016. I would like to give two specific points to the Minister on this point. I am the first to mention the work of women's organisations in fragile states. They often really go into the field of taboo issues. That's why they have to operate small-scale and often underground. This makes it very difficult for banks carrying out anti-terrorist measures to check where money is being transferred to them. Banks have insufficient knowledge and resources to do good research and then use a "better safe than sorry" principle. That's not how terrorists and NGOs are separated from each other. This particularly hits the small, unorganised NGOs on these taboo issues. I have some examples of this if the Minister wants to know more about it, or else I am happy to make it available. The crucial question is how do we ensure that these organisations, which make a difference locally in the lives of so many women, vulnerable groups and gays, can continue to work, also in the context I have just outlined. Then I'll come up with rape as a war strategy. If I imagine that, I'm gonna be freaked out. Women who have become pregnant by war rape are entitled to abortion regardless of local laws. That is a rule of international humanitarian law. This right is not always available in practice. I am concerned about whether the budget offers sufficient scope to make sufficient resources available, if there is a conflict somewhere, to jump in on it. I am considering tabling an amendment on this point with Mr Van Laar. I also like to hear what the Minister says. Europe is also committed to this. D66 therefore welcomes the revised EU policy on war rape, but this must now be reflected very quickly. How will the Minister take care of this during the Dutch Presidency? Finally, I would like to receive a response to all unfinished motions and commitments to my predecessor Sjoerd Sjoerdsma. If that's what the minister wants, I've got the numbers for her. I would like to draw particular attention to criminalising the obstruction of humanitarian aid. This really needs to be settled and, as far as my group is concerned, we cannot begin to do so soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago I was in Iraq and I visited the refugees in the container neighbourhoods, in their tents, in the rain. It doesn't cheer you up. The Minister has undoubtedly seen the same situations. Children whose parents do not have enough resources to eat, because the emergency funds are now in danger of running out, must sell equipment at night and during the day in order to remain alive. This is Iraq in 2015, a country to which our attention was drawn last year when we saw the Jezidis flee to the mountains and we were all concerned about progress. Now we see how it goes on. I am very concerned about that. Not only Jezidis, but also Christians and other minorities are trying to survive there. This is not just the case in Iraq, but in all the neighbouring countries of Syria: Jordan, Lebanon, etc. 60 million people are fleeing war, terrorism and cruel regimes, but also climate change. When I look at the budget, I know that the Netherlands, and this minister, is prepared to do a lot with the existing resources. At the same time, we see that the Minister must move with resources and bring forward GDP increases by 2020 in order to ensure that the budget is covered. This is also due to the fact that this cabinet has decided to cut 750 million, while the defense is getting money and now, in the same urgency, it is also getting 250 million. We are still looking for additional resources for this Minister..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u128	Of course, you can only spend a euro once. The same applies to freshman care. It is true that Mr Voordewind's group also calls for extra money for defence and security and justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u129	I believe that we are the only party in this House to advocate both more resources for defence and more resources for development cooperation, while at the same time calling for the strengthening of the rule of law and security through the budget of Security and Justice. The next question will be where the cover comes from. For that, I refer to our counter-budget. In this we have properly covered amounts such as the 550 million extra for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u130	A counter-budget is, of course, always appreciated, but I think this shows that it is easy to rule from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u131	No, because if it were easy to rule, we wouldn't have made a counter-budget. You don't know us like that. We make a counter-budget every year. We are not just shouting, but also providing cover, unlike your party. You do see the urgency and call for reception in the region, because that would be the solution, but I cannot reconcile that with the way in which the VVD cuts development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u132	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u133	I would therefore like to draw attention to both the reception in the region and the reception of asylum seekers here in the Netherlands. That is why we have tabled a motion together with the Labour Party and many other parties to the General Reviews in order to obtain additional funds for this. I can at least ask the Minister whether she can give an indication whether the gaps that are now in danger of falling into the first-year care budget are going to be covered, regardless of the coverage. Next Monday we will also get the Navy note. I hope that this will be clarified at least before the votes on this budget, preferably tomorrow during the Prime Minister's reply. I said that in a point of order. I would also like to draw attention to the Dutch Relief Fund. There's money in it for next year. It is a successful system in which NGOs are activated to make their own choices. There is 570 million in it, but I also look further, to 2017, and see that the funds are running out because of the urgency this year and next year. That is why I ask the Minister to continue this fund, including the involvement of NGOs, on a long-term basis according to the same system as it is today. I would also ask the Minister to pay particular attention to Iraq, Ukraine and Syria when it comes to emergency aid. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect. There is also a need to address the root causes. We have previously tabled a motion to return to 0.7% instead of cutting back. The Court of Auditors rightly notes that there is no structural solution to this cost of first-year reception of asylum seekers. Does the Minister recognize this problem? What's she gonna do about it? Surely we should not have this massive attack on her budget every year, and then go around again with the hat? Does the Minister also opt for a structural solution, for example by covering above average costs of first-year care on time and in a different way? I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Once again, otherwise she really has to eat her own budget. This means that there is less money left for real poverty reduction. Extensive studies on MFS II show that trust in civil society is justified. NGOs work efficiently and effectively. However, I have to say that this Minister is cutting back 117 million on civil society, on civil society, and that we still have to wait and see if we can reach the 25% previously committed. Last Monday evening, Mr Mulder asked for this 25% to be understood. I have also co-signed a motion for a resolution for this. May I ask the Minister to make that 25% clear? We simply cannot get it out of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr Voordewind, who is from the development aid lobby, is now again defending with the MFS II, which would finally make it clear that this development aid is well spent. That's the best we can get. I have some quotes here, but they're all in English. I do not want to do that, but it says here that there are serious doubts as to whether serious evaluations can be carried out. Here's another thing: something that needs to be addressed quickly is the lack of clear, detailed financial information from the Dutch NGOs. Those are just literal quotes from that report. Surely you can't take the conclusions of such a report seriously if it just says that these NGOs don't even have sound financial information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u135	I understand Mr Bosma's approach. He does that all night. I think that is a lack of constructive thinking about the urgency of the world and the problems that we now have. His point of view is clear. Every evaluation is wrong, and every penny spent on development cooperation is lost money. There is little point in discussing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u136	Yes. It makes little sense to discuss it, because Mr Voordewind is shielding with something and if you just take that report, you can see that it says that these NGOs can come up with insufficient financial information. That's just literally what it says. It's just there page after page. If you read it carefully, you will see that there is absolutely nothing in that report, except that the development aid lobby is totally incapable of making good use of the billions and billions that disappear in those corrupt countries. They are not well spent and that report makes it clear that the development lobby has no story!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u137	You may respond if you wish, Mr Voordewind. There was no question, but you may respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u138	They're stories from probably right-wing articles he's quoting right now. It would please him if he read the actual report. Then maybe we can talk about that in a couple of weeks. There are, of course, reservations about any research. However, the clear conclusion was that aid organisations are working efficiently and effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u139	You may make one brief comment, Mr Bosma. Your questions were three minutes ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u140	I want to make a point of order. I do not think it is a style that Mr Voordewind suggests that I have not read the report. Where'd he come up with this? How dare he say that? I've got it right here, with underlinings and notes. I'll read it to you. I've read all those 8,000 pages, including footnotes. It is too ridiculous for words and it is awesome that Mr Voordewind is shielding it. The development aid lobby has no story! Development aid is wasted money!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u141	All right, you made your point. Mr Voordewind continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u142	I hope that Mr Bosma has come to the final conclusion. It clearly states, once again, that the conclusion is that these organisations work effectively and efficiently. Mr President, I shall continue. This cabinet cuts 34 million on the development of the rule of law, precisely where refugee flows arise. Because our own countries are not safe and because the rule of law is not guaranteed, young people are fleeing. I wonder if those are the right cuts. Extra money is being spent on trade and business, but not on security and the rule of law development. I very much regret that. I think that's working the wrong way. I come to the poorest, the forgotten groups as we call them tending. We are pleased with the inclusive Voice that has started. The Christian Union and the Labour Party had tabled a motion on this, which was adopted. The Minister has responded to that. We received an extensive letter from her about it. We are very pleased with that. However, I see that more could happen there. The letter is very extensive. I see that after her very comprehensive letter to many target groups, including disabled people, the Minister has allocated 10 million a year to her total budget. I would urge her, by means of an amendment, to raise that amount by 5 million. One of the forgotten groups concerns the AIDS system, which this cabinet and the previous cabinets have always supported. This Minister has done the same. I know it's a priority for her, too. This successful UNICEF programme will end in June this year, so I would particularly like to encourage it to continue at least one more year. Then I come to child labour. Great support for Mr Van Laar's amendment. I would have liked to sign it with you. Maybe we can still do that. The minister is also enthusiastic about child labour free zones. That's a program that's being run by Stop Child Labour. Is the Minister prepared to continue this long-term successful programme long-term? I also have a question for the Minister about child labour in the production chain. Perhaps we should look at that through an investigation. It's been going on for a few years. Mr Van Laar and I were given the suggestion at the last working visit that we should go to a VAT standard of 6% for sustainable products. Then, of course, I am not talking about products that are already at 6%, such as food products, but about other products that have a label, such as ISEAL. We've talked about that before. It's a dome of hallmarks. Could we not create a low VAT rate for sustainable products that would have the ISEAL hallmark? I know that this is complicated in Brussels, but perhaps we can play a leading role in this, so that these products are reduced by the masses at a slightly lower market price. Then we can turn it off wide. I hope for a positive response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u143	Mr. Chairman. I would like to focus on three issues in this budget debate: refugees, climate and the Netherlands as a claim paradise. I'll start with the refugees. It has been said many times this evening: 60 million people are on the run from war and violence. Their situation is getting worse. The need for development cooperation has never been so clear. However, the budgets are being cut firmly. You may charge the first-year care to the official OS budget, ODA (Official Development Assistance), but you don't have to. Why would you fully allocate all the costs for that freshman care to the ODA budget? Who do you want to see? How can the Minister, in such a situation, take a mortgage of 400 million on a future increase in Dutch national income? Once I can imagine it, but if we now look at the major challenges that we are facing and if we know that the migratory flows that have begun will certainly not decrease in the short term, then we need to ensure a more fundamental and more stable embedding in the budget. How's the minister gonna solve it if she runs out of money again next year, and the year after that? In the Autumn paper, the cabinet proposes to allocate structural funds for first-year care in the Netherlands and reception in the region in 2016. That is the request of the Slob c.s. motion. (34300, No. 23). How can we approve this budget if we do not know what gap is being struck and how is it being covered even more importantly? My group finds it unacceptable that the estimated 500 million is at the expense of OS. I would therefore like the Minister to reassure me that this is not going to happen. The shelter in the region. Can the Minister promise that the increase in the number of refugees in the Netherlands will not be at the expense of the reception of refugees in the region? The coalition parties in the Foreign Affairs budget did not go any further than shifting 16 million to help refugees. The Ten Broeke/Servaes amendment and motion for a resolution tabled to the Foreign Affairs budget are shifting the distribution of resources between international organisations. We also believe that those who, according to them, need to get a little less are doing valuable work. Can the Minister give an overview of the impact of this proposal on UNESCO-IHE and any other organisations to which the Netherlands is a major donor? 16 million are shifting against a budget cut of 130 million for emergency aid to those same refugees in 2016. 16 million are shifting against the 2.2 billion promised by the EU Member States for the reception of Syrian refugees but not all have yet paid. As a solution to the refugee problem, Member States are beginning to shift money: from development budget to "stop migration" money. It seems that way sometimes. Climate finance. Climate change will exacerbate the refugee and poverty problem. The World Bank warns that climate change will lead to 100 million more people in poverty within 15 years. Climate finance is still much unclear. Is it new money, for example? Is the Minister going to throw away the development money that was first earmarked for development and then for stopping migration for a third time, but then as climate money? And are loans and guarantees also covered by climate finance, according to the Minister? How much is the amount supposed to be? Oxfam has calculated the fair share for the Netherlands at 2.1 billion rather than the 1.2 billion promised by this government. How can this difference be explained? What do we want with the money? This issue requires a long-term vision. That is why I would like to receive a longer-term plan from the Minister, a so-called road map for climate financing. The climate law proposed by Mr Samsom and me looks forward to reducing CO emissions. Now let the cabinet itself look forward to dealing with the consequences of climate change. Then I come to the Netherlands as a claim paradise. Fortunately, there has been a lot of discussion about dispute resolution, the ISDS in TTIP. Finally! But that's not really enough. I am glad that there is finally attention to it, but the Netherlands is actually already a claim paradise, if we look critically. ISDS is not new and is not used for the first time in TTIP. In 95 investment protection agreements, the so-called IBOs, between the Netherlands and other countries, multinationals offer the opportunity to engage in arbitration cases outside national law. Worldwide, 11% of claims run through the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u144	I work a lot with GL and the SP to get TTIP right, but can Mr Klaver give an example of a successful claim submitted by such a multinational in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u145	Thanks for the question. It is also in my text, because I have a number of questions for the Minister. I only have aggregated data on this and I wonder if the Netherlands has ever been charged. I have several questions about this, including the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u146	Then I understand that you use the term "claim paradise" without you being able to justify it. That is not appropriate at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u147	No, what Mr Vos is doing is asking for an example. I have questions about that. If I say that 11% of the claims that go through ISDS worldwide go through the Netherlands and if we also know that these are not all Dutch companies but that mailbox companies use them in particular, we can rightly say that the Netherlands is a claim paradise. The specific question of whether there are any examples of this is precisely the question I have. I cannot give concrete examples. That makes us number two after the United States and not because there are so many Dutch claiming companies. Two thirds of the Dutch claims are made by Dutch branches of foreign companies. I would like to call it claims tourists, so I say to Mr Vos....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These claims are mainly directed against measures to protect the environment, working conditions and health. Of the ISDS cases against EU Member States, under bilateral treaties, 60% of them are conflicts over environmental standards. In these cases, USD 3.5 billion would have been paid to these companies. But the problem is bigger. Thanks to the right of claim, governments are deterred from improving the protection of the environment or public health. I have a few questions about that. Is it possible, for example, for ExxonMobil to file a claim if the Netherlands structurally reduces gas extraction in Groningen? Will we also get ISDS claims when the Netherlands finally decides that several coal power plants should close a very topical issue because we want to keep greenhouse gas emissions in check? I ask these questions because Vattenfall has filed a billion-dollar claim with the German government because Germany decided to stop nuclear power. Claims from multinationals should never, ever, be based on tightening labour, environmental and health legislation. The right of claim should never be granted to companies which are not actually established in the Netherlands. As far as we are concerned, this needs to be changed in all 95 agreements. Will the Minister share with the Chamber how she intends to deal with this and when she intends to take what steps? I would also like the Minister to give me an overview of the multinationals. This is the question put to me by Mr Vos, who have been suing other countries through the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u148	I was just thinking about the example of Germany. The reason for Vattenfall's claim would be the decision of German politics to stop nuclear energy. That is not entirely the case. I'm trying to help with the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u149	That's always nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u150	The reason is that in Germany it has been decided to stop nuclear power and not to start shutting down German power plants, but now it is from Scandinavia. So that's just something else and that's important for the type of claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u151	No. That's the ground Vattenfall based on. One of the grounds put forward for the closure of this plant was that there would be non-equal treatment. To say that my plea would go down with that, I think it goes quite far. The reason why they did this was because they wanted to protect their investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u152	But that's a very legitimate point of view, isn't it? I know GroenLinks as a party of equal rights and of non-discrimination, so I assume that Mr Klaver believes that this also applies to legal persons and companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u153	Yeah, I do. Especially if that happens under national law. For example, you can't just go on expropriation. I am not in any way in favour of that either. But if we put them outside the law by means of this dispute resolution and thereby give them additional rights, then we are not in favour of it. I was almost at a conclusion. Some companies contribute to some social goals, but they also always have their private interests. The government is there for the common good. I hope that the cabinet, and specifically this minister, will not be too guided by the wishes of business. Elimination of people's poverty is not always a continuation of increasing the wealth of businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u154	I still see Mr Van Laar walking towards the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u155	No one has welcomed Mr Klaver. This is his first debate as spokesman for development cooperation. I welcome him to this company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u157	What is missing in his speech, probably because of lack of time, is his vision of development cooperation. Does he differ in that from his predecessor? Within the framework of the budget, I am very curious to see which direction GroenLinks wants to go with development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u158	I find exactly the same as my predecessor. I hear Mr Bosma saying that it was against; then I am in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u159	Mr. Chairman. Since I am still the only barrier between you and dinner break, I can imagine that you have been looking forward to the contribution of the SGP in this respect. Before Mr Van Laar will welcome me as spokesman for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation: I am only replacing Mr Dijkgraaf, who would normally have spoken here, but has been killed by a vicious virus, a mild flu. Mr President, I should like to congratulate you on a somewhat uplifting text. The discussion of the budget for external trade and development cooperation is really about something. On the one hand, the question is how companies and citizens can benefit from international trade worldwide. On the other hand, the question is how even the poorest people get access to clean water, good education, food and legal protection. I would like to raise four points in my contribution. I shall begin with the welcome announcements. Development cooperation is not just a cost. I would ask Mr Bosma to pay close attention to this. Of course, certain aspects of development cooperation have a strong moral component. Justice and mercy are two biblical core values in people's dealings and they sometimes cost money. But, I repeat, development cooperation is not just a cost. On the contrary, it's getting something. A fairly recent study by the Ministry's Development Cooperation and Policy Review Office notes that every Dutch euro spent on bilateral development aid delivers €0.70 to €0.90 in export. This leads to a substantial added value of around EUR 900 million to our economy. This also provides about 15,000 jobs in the Netherlands. In short, development cooperation generates money and jobs through increased exports. According to the SGP, such measurable positive effects of development cooperation on our economy should also be taken into account in the CPB calculations. Hence the question whether the Minister can indicate how the results of this analysis will be taken into account by the inspection in the CPB models for external trade and development cooperation. I think that is an important point. Cutbacks on development cooperation now cost nothing according to the CPB models, and that is not in line with the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u160	Speaking of the facts, it is perhaps a pity that last Monday the SGP was not able to participate in the WHO on the report that the Chamber had drawn up on the impact of development aid. The portee of this was that on the basis of the budget it cannot be measured at all that it has an effect. I am not surprised that the IOB feels differently. I do not know if Mr Bishop knows what the IOB is covered by.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u161	Sure, that's not unknown to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u162	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u163	My question is how Mr Bishop reconciles the outcome of the Court's budgetary investigation, namely that the impact of development cooperation cannot be established, with the jubilant results of the department's own research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u164	I do not want to go into the details of the two investigations. I am concerned that we should not just pay attention to the costs. The way in which development cooperation has been set up and the involvement of business has positive effects. Whether that's exactly those 15,000 jobs, or if it's exactly the added value of 900 million, I'll leave it in the middle. The report provides a certain basis for this. For the time being, I thought it would be very useful to base myself on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u165	Does Mr Bishop agree with me that this is a relatively thin responsibility for spending EUR 4.1 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u166	Not everything can be measured. A significant part of the amount from the budget goes through NGOs. I agree with Mr Taverne that its effects are very difficult to measure. There are indications that the NGOs are functioning well, but that is very difficult to determine. You can't measure it for the full amount. I agree with Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u167	There's a well-known Christian writer named C.S. Lewis. It belongs to him: you can tell the unbelievers everything, for the unbelievers believe everything. However, now that I hear Mr Bishop of the SGP raise all these fine figures tonight about the great results of development aid, I note that you can also tell the believers anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u168	Then Mr Bosma means the believers in the development aid programme. Let us therefore note that Mr Lewis' supplementary aphorism should have been: you can never convince unbelievers. I go on to the second point, namely the increasing pressure on the budget of development cooperation. The SGP looks forward to increasing the pressure on the development cooperation budget. This trend must be broken as far as we are concerned. An important additional cause of this trend is the current pressure of migration on funds for development cooperation. In the short term, the reception of refugees and migrants must be financed, but in the longer term, the current solutions are unsustainable. I mention a number of tricks. Through cash-sliding, money that will be released in the future is brought forward to finance the costs of migration. However, this is an extremely risky and questionable choice. And then the estimated numbers of migrants. It's been pointed out before. In 2016 and beyond, these numbers seem unrealistic, given the current geopolitical situation in Africa and the Middle East. The cost of migration and the pressure on ODA funds will only increase. This leaves less money for investment in combating the causes of migration. Our short-term agenda for the reception of migrants limits our options to fight co-causes of migration at source. Causes such as insecurity, unemployment and lack of proper vocational education are not addressed. We therefore call for an integrated plan to address the causes of migration, the screening of migrants at the borders of Europe and the reception of asylum seekers here. What funding mechanism does the Minister use for the longer term? Can the Minister give full effect to the Slob/Samsom motion calling for the budgetary austerity of ongoing development programmes? Yesterday we discussed the amount of the Dutch contribution to the 100 billion for climate action. The question was raised as to whether this contribution should be made available from the pots for development cooperation. I call once again on the Minister not to put too much pressure on the development cooperation budgets. My third point concerns sustainable development objectives. In recent years we have also seen positive developments. We are grateful for the international action against Ebola. Agreement has been reached on the content of the sustainable development goals. The SGP welcomes the fact that the 16th objective also places the strengthening of the rule of law on the international agenda. Through better law enforcement, a child can safely use an education programme. Better law enforcement allows a farmer to work safely within an agricultural project. In the case of proper law enforcement, a disabled person is not put away in a dark hole. Through better law enforcement, a company no longer gets away with child labour. I would like to ask what the Minister is going to do in the field of law enforcement. Sustainable development goals also concern our country. The Netherlands must ensure that it does not take what it shares with the right hand with the left hand. In order to ensure that countries can grow economically in a protected market, it is necessary to pay attention to the effects of trade agreements. Therefore, several departments should be involved in policy coordination. How does the Minister ensure a coherent implementation of the sustainable development goals? Finally, I would like to highlight the positive role of religion. The world is on fire. It is not uncommon to think that faith only causes misery. Driven by a Christian faith, however, many work with heart and soul worldwide for their less fortunate fellows. Fortunately, this commitment is not limited to merely Christians; I say this immediately, and we can only rejoice at that. Nevertheless, I would like to point out historical icons such as Martin Luther King and Mother Teresa. Also today believers and church communities do a lot of good. I know that from experience and I know it very closely. Sometimes they are also responsible for investments, sometimes large investments. That's going to end up in the billions. Beside love, a primal-biblical Christian term, is good and necessary. The beauty of it is that charity sometimes also pays off. The SGP should be able to point that out with its finger. The merchant and the vicar are not necessarily opposites.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mr Bishop asked for a coherent implementation of the new world goals. Does Mr Bishop mean all goals? I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u170	No, I know that there are issues in those targets where the SGP makes reservations on principle. You can then say: we reject those targets and turn against them. You can make that choice. That's a radical choice, but then you throw the baby away with the bathwater. We therefore call for a careful implementation of the sustainable objectives, with the remark that we disagree with them on a number of points. It is good that Mr Van Laar reminds me of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u171	A brief question, Mr Van Laar, and a brief answer, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u172	Coherent, I think, is in its entirety and in its coherence. That is the idea of coherence. We are 100% in favour of this. Why is Mr Bishop arguing for that if he doesn't really want to? He is now giving a more recognizable SGP response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u173	I could have chosen to mention those exceptions and say what objectives we could have fallen or missed. I could have chosen that, but I didn't. I do recognize that the objectives, as they are formulated, are coherent with each other, but not necessarily all. Mr Van Laar may also drop the word 'coherent' and take 'the most relevant' for that, but I realise that we also disagree. In general, I am in favour of the implementation of the sustainable goals, with the remark that we do not share everything. If that is a better wording, I am happy to meet you, Mr Van Laar.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u174	That's a nice lock. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-25-tweedekamer-7.u175	This budget debate will continue tomorrow evening.
