ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery. In particular, I welcome the Minister of Security and Justice and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Schouw van D66 in this debate. By the way, we are only doing the first term of the Chamber today, because the directors have indicated that they need a little more time to prepare themselves for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u2	Mr President, I see the window of speaking time in front of me at 2 minutes. Now it's one minute and 57 seconds. Were you planning to maintain that order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u3	It's legislation, so you can speak as long as you've given up. That's 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u4	I wish you'd say that every day, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Criminals who pay for their own criminal trial and for their stay in prison. The cabinet sells this as a logical argument: you have misbehaved and that costs society money, and those costs have to be recovered from someone. That makes sense. I hear Minister Van der Steur confirm this. With that, he taps his first point. However, he has not been able to fully understand my point, because there is still something behind it, namely: but how logical, realistic and feasible is such a contribution by criminals if we try to figure out the proposals? In other words, it is a bit the question of 'between dream and act many practical objections stand in the way'. You might want to, but can you fix it? And does what you want come true? The criminal can already impose fines, take away someone's freedom for years and take away wealthy criminals. Victims have the right to speak and can be compensated for their damage. The key question is therefore for the D66 Group: what does a private contribution of criminals add if the criminal court can call them to account for material and intangible? That's a pretty simple question. I challenge the members of the cabinet to reflect on that. I don't know what their roles are, but we're gonna see that soon. For the D66 Group, there are four thorny issues on the table with this bill. I shall begin with the trend break of this Minister and Secretary of State. Maybe I'm putting something too big in their shoes, because of course they weren't there at all when this child was born. They are functionally the spiritual fathers of this proposal, and also of the trend break. For years, the principled cabinet position was that a government that imposes a prison sentence on citizens does not ask for or force a financial contribution to that punishment. That is a principle which, if I am correct, is also enshrined in Article 35 of the Code of Criminal Law... (NL) Mr President, I have to pay attention, because I see that the Minister is also non-verbal. He shook no, so I hope he will come back to this very extensively when he replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u5	As long as you do not comment on it, non-verbal movements are not part of the Acts. I do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u6	I am also pleased that the Minister is doing it, because it enlivens the debate. And of course I hope at a time when the Minister shakes no and the Secretary of State nods yes, because then we really have a lot of fun with each other. Maybe that's what's gonna happen. And for the Acts, I'm getting a plume from the chairman. That's always great. Mr. Chairman. What exactly is the need for the cabinet to throw the principle overboard without blushing or blushing, to cast out the pole and to clean up EUR 65 million? And why does out of the 65 million that this bill is supposed to yield net, but 5 million go to victim care? Isn't that a little short? It is an exchange of principles for unintended money, and that gives thought to the leitmotiv in this proposal. What is the black hole in the budget that is intended to cover the rulers with this? I'll put another question to that right away. Is finding money, so the 65 million prospected, the motive to do this? Is money a motive or is the principle the motive? If the principle is the motive, then what were the arguments to deviate from the previously anchored 2008 principle? What happened to the conclusions of PvdA Secretary of State Albayrak in 2008 that there is no sufficient justification for introducing the own contribution? In 2008 it was also said and written that it is very unusual internationally to allow detainees to contribute to the costs of detention. The then Secretary of State also warned about the negative experiences with own contribution schemes. She pointed to Denmark, where prisoners build debts during detention, which subsequently hindered their re-socialisation. Why does the cabinet now return to its own warnings? Was there any talk of nonsense then, or are there new, brilliant, scientifically-based insights? Would the cabinet share that with the D66 group? The second thorny issue in this dossier is the reliability of the cost-and-benefit picture. The own contribution should amount to 65 million, but what exactly are all the costs involved? A cell does not cost €16, but more than €250 per day, for TBs even €528, and for young people €606. The costs of the criminal proceedings are also many times higher than the lump sum proposed by the cabinet. Are they not mainly symbolic measures? They are contributions for which society must establish a comprehensive system to collect that money. If Minister Van der Steur were still MP Van der Steur, he would call the system that has now been devised a socialist system. I'll put a bottle of piklimonade on that. The system has all kinds of complicated arrangements, exceptions and everything. It is becoming a bureaucratic whole, which my group thinks is: do you have to make that effort and do you get that money? Where have the liberal ideas gone to impose as little rules as possible on this society? The expectation is that perhaps 22% of prisoners and perhaps half of those convicted can be collected. Significant's impact analysis shows that this is the type of percentage. Those are gross estimates and not certainties. Do the rulers agree with me? We are about to proceed with a legislative proposal in which we work with very coarse estimates and in which we have no certainty about the actual numbers that are hidden below. Who's gonna actually pay later? There are more exceptions to the scheme than those covered by the rule. That looks like an outdated tax system. If you make so many exceptions to a main rule, you're a little weird. It is up to the cabinet to explain at once why this is not weird, why this is not weird. You can ask for an individual payment scheme, appeal and debt relief. There's remission, conviction without penalty, where you don't have to pay anything, and young people pay only detention and not the criminal trial. Then both target groups also contain a lot of bald chickens. This has already been discussed in the written procedure. The average criminal is not exactly active or popular in the labour market. What is the assumption, the hypothesis or even the certainty that a bald chicken is going to pay back? My group does not yet see that. In reply to questions in this Chamber, the cabinet refers to a thesis, an investigation by the Utrecht University of Applied Sciences, "Incarcerated in Debt." In the introduction, I believe, three pages are devoted to this. The thesis should prove that debts do not lead to crime. I find that very remarkable in such an interesting case. That's what those three pages of introduction are about. But people who have known about this for years, for example at probation, who work daily with just people on behalf of the government, say something else. P.O.D. says that one of the most important predictors of recidivism is the financial situation of the convicted person. Debting creates a prominent risk for relapse. Does the Cabinet acknowledge these findings, these work conclusions of the probation? And how does it reconcile that with that research so much praised by the Utrecht University of Applied Sciences by the Cabinet itself? I think that investigation was about something quite different than the cabinet claims, but I'll leave that for you. That will be the subject of the continuing exchange of views. That's not consistent. In my view, the state of science is such that a bad financial situation of a convicted person is a major predictor of recidivism. It can therefore be concluded that the government should not give extra impetus to put someone in an even worse financial situation, because then the turbo goes on the recidivism. Then we're washing the kid away with the bathwater.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u7	I have the explanatory statement here. Mr Schouw began by making a logical statement, namely that he began by quoting a quote that it should not be taken for granted that society should bear all the costs caused by criminals and convicted persons themselves. Does he think so, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u8	Sure. That is what I said in the introduction. I have also appointed the instruments that can be used. But now we're talking about the effectiveness of the measure that allows prisoners to pay a certain amount. Does that help? Or is it just helping us get off the ground? There is also the business side; that will appeal to the VVD more. Are the costs and revenues related? I am particularly concerned about the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u9	I understand the latter. That is why I find the answers to the questions put by Mr Schouw interesting. However, I would like to point out that the explanatory memorandum also states that 87% of former detainees have an income after a few months. I want to admit right away that this may not be the most flourishing income, but it is income. If I consider that couple to Mr Scheze's first own assessment, namely that it does not have to be taken for granted that society should pay for costs incurred as a result of choices made by inmates themselves, then if someone has income and it is possible to pay, you could expect a contribution. Or does Mr Schouw think otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u10	You have to look very closely at the effects of the system. I can go a long way with the principle. You just have to organize it in such a way that it has an effect and you achieve a goal. I think it is an important objective to reduce repeated crime, which I believe is the whole of the Chamber, and not to encourage recidivism. I am afraid, and with me many groups, I think that this is a driving force to increase the number of repeats. Then it's a stupid measure, because then it'll cost a lot more than it gets. We have to discuss this with each other, because no one is in favour of doing anything that costs a lot more than it brings. Aren't we hitting the rain in the drip? In any case, that is a metaphor that could characterize this bill. How real is it that an ex-con with behavioral and addiction problems finds a job? Will his benefit be withheld if it doesn't work? It still comes from the wallet of society, doesn't it? What happens if the costs of criminal proceedings and residence in a cell continue to increase over the next few years? Will they then be passed on and the contribution still remain within the limits of the impact analysis, or will the whole building and the whole assumptions be shifted? The collection of the contribution requires income data through the Tax Administration, UWV and SVB. So the Minister and the Secretary of State cannot possibly know who will or will not be covered by an exception. All the provisions on this are really wet fingering and speculations. So they do not charge themselves too much and too early? What will it mean for the budget if the 65 million is not reached? The third problem is the burden on the municipalities. Mrs Jorritsma rightly warns about the negative effects of this bill on debt, poverty policy, debt relief and reintegration. These are all areas of responsibility not for the cabinet but for the municipalities. To put it simply, at best, you may have a earning effect at national level, but it can be a huge cost at local level. This cost will exceed the earning effect at national level many times. What is the cabinet going to do to get the VNG to join this proposal? Will the municipalities be reassured by indicating that the costs resulting from the drafting of the law would be compensated if this proposal were to take effect? The municipal point is very heavy for my group. In fact, it seems to me that very little account has been taken of this in the entire preparation of this bill. The fourth point is the packaging. After all, the cabinet presents its own contribution as an administrative measure. Their own contribution would not be intended as punishment, but a criminal sees it as an additional punishment. The contribution is because he or she has been convicted: no contribution of his or her own without conviction or without imprisonment. The own contribution could amount to a debt of several thousand euros. What will prevent judges from considering their own contribution to the imposition of penalties, for example by imposing a lower fine or a shorter prison sentence? My group does not consider this scenario to be entirely inconceivable. But then we get two more systems running together. What you earn with the new system is destroyed by the existing system. I assume that the cabinet does not have the means or means to prevent judges from taking this into account, in the sense that they are pro-actively and anticipating a shorter prison sentence or lower fines. Can the cabinet explain again why it was not chosen to have the contribution passed through the courts, as is the case in Germany? Costs for procedural acts or remedies are rightly not reflected in the cabinet's proposal. Would the intervention of the judge not have exactly the effect that the contribution will be punitive and thus play a role in the criminal proceedings? For the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, no contribution has yet been made. Of the four serious reservations, however, the rulers are entitled to deduce a direction. I think that the cabinet should come from a very good house if it is to seduce the D66 Group in the first place with all the, probably very good, intentions of this bill, because my group has not yet been able to discover them. The sting is not yet out of the four thorny issues, namely the fundamental trend break, the reliability of the cost and benefit picture, the burden on the municipality and the packaging as an administrative measure. We also note that in the advisory bodies, among the people who have all been consulted on this matter, from the Council of State until I know it all, there is hardly any support for this own contribution scheme. The scheme is not recommended. She is also perceived as counterproductive. Moreover, this scheme has undesirable effects on recurrent events and costs for society. The cabinet has not yet been able to convince in this respect either. Nevertheless, as always hopefully, confidently and courageously, we await the response of the cabinet in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'll deal with the bill separately. First of all, I will deal with the legislative proposal on the contribution of convicted persons to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care. Then I will go into the bill for the contribution of detainees to the stay in a prison or TBs clinic. I'm going into the first bill now. No one will be surprised that the PVV has always believed that convicted persons should contribute to the costs of a criminal trial. My party has already tabled several motions on this matter. I'd like to mention a few. In 2012 and 2013, motions were tabled on the payment of an own contribution for probation work. In 2012 a motion was also tabled to increase the own contribution to an addition by 150%. This is about criminal matters. And as early as 2007, my colleague De Roon tabled a motion to address the ability of criminals sentenced to detention to compensate for the costs of detention. That motion has been passed. Unfortunately, the proposal ended up in the fridge. Anyway, the bill that's gonna settle this is about to come up, so I'm gonna come back to that. My group is keen to see the law on the contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care. Better late than never, let's just say. The PVV wants to give the Minister the tip, I can't help but admit that PVV's ideas are quite good and not always getting behind the facts by taking them over in a somewhat slacker variant only two years later. Today's Minister, I see some non-verbal communication, I'm sure forgive me for saying this with some sense of irony. We have a common history in Rutte I and the position of my group will therefore appear well known to him. The VVD itself did not see anything in our proposals. She voted against the two motions on her own contribution to the parole work. The former Secretary of State has always rejected the cost of detention with the justification that it would cost more than it would yield. Anyway, under financial pressure, everything seems to become liquid, just like in campaign time. After these funny remarks I couldn't leave, I'm going to the content. Because unfortunately, as I mentioned, PVV ideas are always taken over in a somewhat slacker version. This is also the case with this bill. The bill provides for the costs of the criminal proceedings to be recovered from the perpetrators where possible. Only those convicted of a criminal offence will have to pay part of the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care. Persons who have been acquitted or dismissed from all legal proceedings do not have to pay any contribution to the costs. That is absolutely right. A person who has not been proved by legal and convincing evidence in proceedings that he or she has committed the criminal offence charged may also not be required to pay a contribution to the costs of the trial. As stated in the bill, the basis for charging an own contribution lies in the fact that someone has broken the law and thereby provoked a reaction. But what is our surprise? The proposed contribution decision states that, where a person has been convicted but no penalty or measure is imposed, the contribution charged is €0. I would like to see an explanation of that, because they have indeed been convicted. In this context, I would also like to receive an explanation of the proposed Article 592e of the Code of Criminal Procedure, more specifically paragraph 1 (c). It states that the Minister may waive recovery or further claim if the contributor "has not made any payments for five years and it is unlikely that he will make them at any time'. This may mean that a contribution of €0 will be charged in this situation as well. And what is meant by the "free amount"? Is this the attachment-free foot that is also mentioned in Article 475d of the Code of Civil Procedure? If the criterion is that there is no payment, then I note that this does not apply to the "ordinary" citizen either. Just take a look at the actuality. The Public Prosecutor's Office will simply file a hostage request, regardless of whether the debtor can pay or not. In the legislative proposal, the costs incurred are those incurred by the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Netherlands Forensic Institute, the Netherlands Institute for Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology and the probation, in the context of the investigation and prosecution. It also includes the costs of trial, more specifically the costs of the case-law and the summoning of any witnesses and experts. The contribution obligation therefore does not include the costs actually incurred or certain procedural acts. It is a fixed lump sum fixed by General Measure of Management. The amount may also vary according to the court which delivered the judgment. The PVV partly agrees with this, because unfortunately there is no exception for wealthy criminals in the sense that they are required to make a higher contribution. This does not seem to mean that the strongest shoulders should bear the most heavy loads. I'd like to get a reaction to that. So it will not surprise anyone either, after all, I have already said that the PVV can agree to this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u12	"The strongest shoulders must bear the heaviest loads." That is, of course, a credo that I feel very much at home with, but Mrs Helder makes it so quietly: she asks for a reaction from the cabinet. Does she not think that the bill should simply be amended on that point? It seems logical that people who have a lot of money pay the full pound for a day in prison and not a tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u13	I have not yet announced a motion for a resolution on this, because an amendment is, of course, more appropriate in this case. However, this bill came fairly quickly on the plenary agenda and, due to the pressure of time, I have not managed to make an amendment on it. You can always do that. So I'm sure I'm prepared to think about that. So I don't turn it on gently. I just want a response and I left it in the middle whether I am going to table a motion or an amendment on it, but it could just happen. If Mr Schouw wants to contribute or says it sounds good to him, then perhaps we can do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u14	That's an invitation, but I'm trying to find out something with my question, of course. Mrs Helder actually claims this bill by saying: we have invented it; we have the original; only they have made it into a lame broth. I'm actually trying to figure out what two or three points we can get back to the original. Or is a weak broth sufficient for the PVV group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u15	Better than nothing. That is why I have already made an advance by saying here that my group can agree, but I was of course not quite at the end of my speech. My group believes, indeed, that the strongest should bear the heavy burden. I had just come to a point that Mr Schouw might also address, because I was just going to say that the PVV can agree to this legislative proposal, but not without an attempt to bring it back a little more in the original state, i.e. closer to the PVV idea. I'll get back to that. For example, the bill also stipulates that a person convicted in the same procedure for multiple offences will only have to pay the contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings once. There is only one procedure in place, but the costs of police and NFI, for example, have been identified separately for each case or, if you like. The contribution to be paid by the convicted party must therefore be cumulative as far as the PVV is concerned. So here is the second point. The costs of trial are indeed almost the same, but the costs of detection are indeed higher. The Minister's explanation in the note on the report did not change our mind either, because the collection procedure is not complicated by the fact that the basic principle of the Minister himself calls this'responsibility for his own action'. What is even more important is that it does not fit in with the objective which the government claims to pursue with the legislative proposal. Indeed, the legislative proposal states quite literally that "it is desirable to combat the high costs of detecting, prosecuting and prosecuting criminal offences and the care of victims of those offences, in order to ensure that the perpetrators of criminal offences contribute to the costs of criminal proceedings'. The answer that a comprehensive analysis of the court judgment is needed to determine whether a conviction has been pronounced for one or more of the facts is nonsense, because at the end of each judgment it is clear which facts are covered by the conviction and for which acquittal has been followed. I will not leave aside the fact that my group is considering a motion on this point. Well, then it's obvious. Furthermore, young people, i.e. both minors and adolescents, are excluded from the obligation to pay their own contribution. My group does not agree with this and believes that provision should be made for parental contributions. We have not received a satisfactory response to this point in the note on the basis of the report. The Minister simply repeats what is stated in the explanatory statement and my group does not think that this is enough. It is very good that a young person finds out that his behaviour is costing society and it may be an incentive for parents to raise children more tightly. Parents are legally simply responsible for their underage children. The adolescents are the ones from 18 to 23 years of age. Why are they excluded from the contribution obligation? They are allowed to vote, to obtain a driving licence, etc., but are not referred to their responsibility in the context of this legislative proposal. They too should not provoke a criminal response. My group does not fully understand the Minister's point. So we would like to know more about that. On this point, too, my group is considering a motion. I would also like to point out that, despite an attempt by the PVV to move in 2007, escape is still not punishable. Unfortunately, we hear with some regularity that a tbser is running away. It also costs money to detect it, and it cannot be charged because there is no new criminal trial, since escape is not a criminal offence. My group would therefore like to see a criminal offence against prisoners and tbs. Does the Minister agree and, if so, is he prepared to do so? The government has rightly been reminded by the Dutch Order of Lawyers and the Council of the Court of Justice that when imposing the penalty, the criminal court may consider that the sentenced person will be liable for his own contribution, thus giving the possibility that a lower fine will be imposed in cases where a fine is imposed as a penalty. The Minister states that this is not the intention, but the point is that he is not about it; that is what the judge determines in an individual case. So if the Minister thinks that this is not desirable, he will have to amend the law on this point. I am therefore considering retableing an old motion from my group. That motion requests that circumstances which are unrelated to the offence and fall under the responsibility of the offender should not be taken into account in the circumstances of the case, in that they cannot therefore lead to a lesser penalty. Then I'll get to the other bill. I say this with some irony, without involving the news about the minister who was in the AD last Saturday. "I'd rather steal good than make up bad ideas," the former Secretary of State must have thought. The proposal to allow prisoners to pay their own contribution is a proposal that my group tabled in 2007, at least my group tabled a motion to settle it. If the PVV in debates in recent years asked for the implementation of that motion, we were always told: there is a lot of sympathy for it, but we are not going to do it. Rutte II's coalition agreement says so. Anyway, better something than nothing. My group has always said that it is free of charge and accommodation. The hard-working citizen, who simply abides by the law and pays his bill properly on time, gets nothing for free. Apparently, the Secretary of State now agrees with the PVV, given the bill we're discussing today. Again, I cannot suppress any irony. It is sometimes said that the PVV never has solutions. So here we do have one, which is recognized once. The only point of criticism is that unfortunately it is also a weaker variant of our solution. Let me explain this in more detail. First of all, my group wonders why the compensation is not collected until the prison sentence has been served in full. No doubt inmates will try to buy time or get out of it. The draft law therefore provides for a wide range of legal deferment and adjustment options for detainees. As far as my group is concerned, it is not only an ex-post examination but a preliminary examination of the asset position of a prisoner, so that, as for people who are not in prison, the costs can be collected monthly, if there is any capital. If these prisoners are not wealthy, they can, as far as my group is concerned, learn to work in prison to pay their bills, just like people who have not been put in prison, because the sun is rising for nothing. In addition, prisoners are being prepared for life after prison, because then too, as a rule, there is a need to work to provide for the cost of living. When a detainee does work in prison, there is also some income. Article 2 (3) of the Workers' Wage Detention Scheme provides that the payment for the penitentiary work performed is to be made on a weekly basis. That money could spend inmates on private business at the prison store. Then why can't part of the own contribution be paid immediately? An inmate now earns up to €0.76 per hour with his work in prison. That's what's so beautiful in the Labour Wage Inmates Scheme, more specifically in Article 2 (2). A quick calculation teaches us that with an average working week of twenty hours per week, a little more than €15 per week can be earned. It is therefore very possible to include a few euros, for example €7, without completely destroying the possibility of private purchases in the prison shop. In order to be able to pay up to your own contribution with earned labour and also to have something left, you could of course increase the hourly wage. After all, my group understands that working must pay off. What does the Secretary of State think about this? The answers to the written questions did not make that clear. In addition, prisoners may also save during their detention, as they may receive a contribution from third parties from outside. You can read this on various websites of penitentiary institutions. Inmates may hold up to €500 during their detention. All the money they receive on top of this amount is kept neatly for them until they have served their time in prison. At the end of the prison sentence, the excess amount, i.e. above that €500, will be transferred to the account of the ex-convict. The PVV wants this amount to be collected directly from its own contribution and the remainder to be transferred. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. My group regrets that the legislative proposal has chosen to limit its own contribution to €16 per day. As a decisive argument, the State Secretary indicated that, given the limited financial position of the target group, he sees no reason for a higher contribution. That is somewhat understandable, but of course there are also convicts who have a lot more. I call a Danny K. and a Willem Holleeder. They'll laugh at that €16 a day. In that case, we are not talking about delicate souls who are difficult to make ends meet. According to the figures of the WODC, about 70% of prisoners are in debt, but the remaining 30% do not. As far as my group is concerned, the Secretary of State is ignoring that. That's somewhat naive. That €16 is not more than a few crumbs for a bit of a wealthy criminal, so why is there no differentiation in that respect? On the question of the obligation to contribute to lifelong sentences when the collection of the contribution takes place only after the detention, the disappointing answer came that it is not in line with the expectation that they will pay their contribution. You don't have to be a genius for that. Anyone can think of that. That is why we asked that question. Why isn't there any further thought? Why is there no misunderstanding about this group, which has, as a rule, seriously shocked the rule of law, because otherwise you will not get a lifetime, no exception? That is all the more strange because the government always says it is in front of the victims and because the bill is somewhat motivated by the austerity drive. There had to be pennies. I would like a substantive answer to this question. The specific question is why the contribution is not collected per month or over a certain period of time for this group, and why should it be collected afterwards? Because then you're pretty sure they're not gonna pay the money because they're in prison for life. Then there is the question I have just asked about the other legislative proposal. The letter of amendment states in the proposed Article 7c (1) (c) that the Minister may refrain from collecting the contribution if the contributor has not made a payment for five years and is not likely to make it at any time. That's a quote. This may mean that a contribution of EUR zero will also be paid in this situation, i.e. nothing. Here again the question of what is meant by the amount to be kept free. In this respect, I refer again to Article 475d of the Code of Civil Procedure, which refers to the attachment-free base. In conclusion, my group wonders why no further action is being taken, now that the decision has been taken that prisoners should pay a contribution to the cost of staying in a prison or TBs clinic. As far as my group is concerned, the taxpayer should contribute as little as possible to the residence of convicted criminals. The beginning is there, but it can be improved on the parts I just mentioned. My group believes that convicted criminals have already taken away enough from their victims in particular and from society in general. People who are not in prison should also pay rent or mortgage. Inmates shouldn't be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u16	Mr. Chairman. Those who do not stay at home can simply delete a number of standard cost items in their household booklet. Think of food, gas, water and light. Those costs are made elsewhere, but on whose account? For many Dutch people, they have to pay their own contribution when they are admitted to a nursing home or establishment, or at other costs of care. The levying of an own contribution to prisoners therefore seems logical at first hearing. The same can be said for a contribution to the costs incurred by the criminal justice chain in the case and conviction of an offender. But unfortunately, sometimes the world is a little more complicated. That's why I have a lot of questions for both rulers today. Because why do we have prisons in the Netherlands? Is that just to lock people up for a while and then send them home with a receipt? I don't think so. Detention indeed and first of all serves as retribution, but also has a rehabilitating effect if it is good. In this country we are happy with these two words, so that a convicted person can make a fresh start after his detention, with the hope that there will be no repetition. At this very point, I have great concerns. My second important point concerns the feasibility of the whole plan, including the administrative burden. Mr Schouw has already asked a lot of questions about it. I agree with that. I shall begin with the basis of this proposal. The rulers have indicated that this is an administrative and not a penal sanction. But the costs may amount to €14,000. My question is twofold. Is the judge gonna take this into account in the sentence? If so, will it shorten the penalties? How do you feel about that? What consequences does this have for people who can't pay their fine and therefore end up in jail? Do they not receive an unequal punishment compared to richer colleagues convicted of the same type of crime? What is the real purpose of this measure? Anyone who looks at the prison population has to admit that there is a difference. I distinguish three groups and I ask the rulers to respond to each of these groups. How will the proposal for these groups work out? Firstly, it concerns people who have shown criminal behavior in order to be financially better. Of this group of people there is a tendency to say that they can indeed pay their own contribution. You can say, "Just get paid." I ask the rulers to respond to this, because many of them have already been taken into account in the judge's ruling. There is already a great deal of criminal property that can be taken away from them by means of the picking-up legislation. That can be taken into account in the penalty. Can the rulers explain why this is not an additional sanction, but an administrative measure? Moreover, I ask them to clarify what this post-tax does with the return to society. In fact, I find the scientific evidence of the absence of repeated crime rather lean. Then the second group: those who commit crimes because of their addiction or because of other psychological problems exhibit extreme criminal behaviour. It must be said from this group that it is crucial for aid to be given to the problem of addiction. It is a social interest that they are treated and can be given a place in society under supervision. Can the directors make it clear what amount is to be paid in regular health care institutions for their own contribution and how this relates to the contribution requested in a judicial institution? Do they ensure that their own contribution does not adversely affect the prevention of recurrence? Then to the third group, the group of people who see no other way to provide for their sustenance, either because they are used by others, or because they are always caught with their intellectual limitations. Let us be honest: there is also a group of prisoners who lived on the outskirts of society before the conviction and who are vulnerable. Also for this group, paying a contribution to detention is an almost impossible task. Often this will mean that additional creditors will be present and that they will join in the back of the line. I ask the rulers how big this group is. What are the burdens and concerns for them before a special arrangement is introduced or the claim is waived? I want to clarify better which group of inmates do not stand in the way of this bill's reintegration into society. I would also like to make it clear to the vulnerable prisoners how this relates to the own contribution scheme in ggz and addiction care. Can the rulers give an overview of this? Moreover, I fear that the proposal will ultimately have little relevance in practice. Because you can't pick from a bald chicken. A significant number of prisoners have a major debt problem. They simply cannot pay their own contribution. Can the rulers take us into their consideration to opt for a lump sum as their own contribution? Why not look at income or wealth? I also have a question about the role of the municipalities, which is not entirely clear to me. They are responsible for the friendly debt trajectories, but they use two criteria, namely the condition that debts are incurred in good faith and that there is a fixed income. Both criteria cannot be met by prisoners. How does this relate to the role of municipalities in this process? Another point is the international context. There are indeed examples in England and Germany. The rulers referred to this in the written preparation. Anyone who reads the note on the basis of the report will then see very often that a deeper comparison is actually difficult to make. I find it strange that the international argument is so easily waved. Where, according to the rulers, does their own contribution work successfully now? What are these success factors there? I'm missing a clear analysis. What does seem to work are concepts applied abroad, such as the Norwegian prison island of Bastøy and the Apac prison in Brazil. There, prisoners get much more responsibility for their own lives. In the Netherlands there is a light version in the form of a pilot in Heerhugowaard. There are also the Exodus houses. The Secretary of State mentioned earlier, in response to questions from Mrs Kooiman, that he would present a proposal this spring on the continuation and possible extension of these pilots. How does this proposal relate to the proposal before us? I find it very difficult to deal with these two matters completely separately. They have a lot to do with each other. I believe that this legislative proposal will be much stronger if we link these two issues together. There are more innovative concepts abroad that mean a lot more to reducing repeated crime. Let's put our time and our energy into that. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. I would also like to have a response to the findings of a scientific school that points to the senselessness and counter-productiveness of this proposal for prisoners. I call the expert Professor Martin Moerings, who has a lot of knowledge in this area and warns about this. Why does the Secretary of State see enough of this to launch such warnings? Many concerns have also been expressed about the increase in administrative burdens. Mr Schouw has asked questions about this, and I am happy to endorse that. I also miss an analysis of what this claim does with the income position of families who are lagging behind. That position is getting even worse. The income and position of the prisoner, father or mother, falls away and additional costs are added. What are the consequences for those who are left behind? What are the consequences for, for example, a call for assistance? Does this mean that a family will pay even more for the missteps of one of the roommates? Is there any knowledge of the consequences of this? It has been stressed that the bill will prevent parents of young prisoners from visiting their children at least once more. Does this contribution look at a similar contribution in the youth ggz? Has the Secretary of State been in contact with his colleague from VWS and has he asked what the problems are at present? I would also like to ask what the consequences are for the young person's return to his own homeland. Madam President, I started my speech with the logic of making my own contribution, but you will notice that there are a lot of questions to ask. They are about perspectives for the prisoner, about preventing recidivism and about other possibilities, which have a better result. Not so long ago, in 2008, there was a secretary of state who rejected the whole idea well-founded. I quote at the end of my speech from the press release of the then Secretary of State of the PvdA House. She wrote this. "There is no adequate justification for introducing an own contribution for detainees to the costs of detention. As a starting point, the law stipulates that the costs of detention will be borne by the State. In the cabinet's view, it is disproportionate to introduce, in addition to the termination of the benefit, an own contribution scheme for inmates. It has also been found that it is very unusual internationally for prisoners to contribute to the costs of detention." Furthermore, the 2008 press release states: "In addition, there are practical concerns including the generally weak financial position of detainees and the high collection costs. Capital from criminal activities is being skimmed as much as possible through the picking-them legislation, which the Cabinet has already announced earlier that opportunities are being stepped up." That was in 2008. This calls for a strong reply from the rulers in 2015, at least a stronger reply than what we have seen in the documents. I look forward to that reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u17	Mr Segers also begins and ends his contribution with a logical conclusion, namely that it does not sound so crazy in itself to allow certain costs not to be borne by society, but to be borne by the person who caused the costs. However, Mr Segers listed a number of groups on which he was concerned. I understand these concerns very well and I am also curious about the reaction of the cabinet to them. But there's probably a group left in the end. We do not know yet how big this group is, but let's assume for a moment that the size of that group is substantial. Does Mr Segers fully share the premise that prisoners who can contribute actually contribute to the costs of what they themselves have caused as a result of their own choices? Does he share the principle that this contribution may be required from at least the remaining group, but perhaps also from the other groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u18	I have said that the logic of this is compelling, but there are very pressing questions to ask. Look, for example, at the property or income of such a prisoner. It's not gonna be done. I also asked how the administrative penalty relates to its punitive nature. Those two things need to be clearly distinguished. It shouldn't be an extra sentence, because we can take criminal money from another route. That route is much more beneficial than this route. I just heard Mr Helder say: people like Willem Holleeder, with a lot of money, we can make a contribution of our own. But I think people like that are laughing at their own contribution. We have other means to take those people's criminal money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u19	That's obvious. Mr Segers now addresses other questions from his contribution, including the punctual nature or the administrative side of it. There are a few target groups of prisoners and convicts that Mr Segers is concerned about. Maybe there's still a part of it left. Hence my more fundamental question: does Mr Segers share the general principle that you should ask what kind of group he does not know how big he is? After all, they caused it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u20	You did not hear me say no in principle, because we are asking for our own contribution in all sectors and for all kinds of provisions. But it must be proportional and it must not be extra punitive, because we can apply it in a different way. The questions I asked remain valid, but I did not say no in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u21	Mr. Chairman. Today I have the honour to be able to debate with these new rulers for the first time. I just congratulated the Minister on his wonderful new target group. I want to do the same with the Secretary of State and with his incredibly beautiful job. Both rulers are given fantastic staff, such as the prison staff. The Minister already knows all about this, because in his previous position he visited many prisons. Furthermore, I am thinking of the hardworking and driven probation workers. But these people have also suffered a great deal: closure of prisons, considerably reduced probation surveillance and so on. When I saw the meeting schedule on Friday, I thought: let's hope these new rulers come up with all kinds of new, smart plans. I was secretly a little disappointed when I saw these two laws on the agenda. Not because I don't want to stand here, I love to do so, but I had hoped that these laws would have had a different form. I'll explain why. The SP always says: fighting crime is preventing victims. But what these laws do is increase it again and create victims. The SP stands for a safe society, for which it is necessary that criminals no longer take up their old profession. These laws almost push people back into crime. I think that's stupid and unwise. What exactly are we dealing with today? Two laws in one. Mrs Helder has explained this very well. The first law deals with the personal contribution of detainees and the second on the personal contribution of convicted persons to criminal proceedings and victim care. I'll start with the first law. Mr Van Oosten will be pleased if I say that I find the proposal in itself sympathetic and perhaps very tough. Because in itself, the SP is not against its own contribution to detention, but not in this way. As most people know the SP, we have an alternative in the form of our own proposal. I'll get to that. However, let me first explain to the Secretary of State why this proposal is not good. There has been a lot of research into why people choose the criminal path or why prisoners again go wrong after detention. All these investigations show that having a debt is one of the biggest criminal factors. Even the cabinet, after all these stacks of reports, which we have all submitted to the cabinet, can only admit that having a debt is a risk to socialisation and that there is a link between having debt and recidivism. The question before us today is therefore why the government chooses to push these people even deeper into the blame, thereby increasing the risk of unsafe situations and more victims. Indeed, 73% of all prisoners already have a problematic debt at the start of detention. Of that group of inmates in debt, 30% to 35% have debts greater than €10,000. For people with addiction, the problem is even greater, namely an average of €23,000 for 14 different creditors. Now the government wants the prisoner to participate in his stay in detention. I can tell you that an inmate's hourly wage is €0.76 an hour. That is on average €15.20 per week. The government has decided that its own contribution to detention will be €16.00 per day. Inmates do not even earn that a week, if prisoners are allowed to work from this cabinet, because there is a good chance that the prisoner will not even make money in detention. The previous Secretary of State had in the electronic detention bill thought that prisoners did not have to work and that they were allowed to stay on their cells. Then I said, "What kind of VVD Secretary of State?" Bad guys don't even have to work; they can just sit on their cells. Those plans were therefore in the head of the State Secretary and were dealt with in the Lower House, after which they were shot down in the Upper Chamber. I am very pleased with that, but I hope, of course, that this Secretary of State will say that this was indeed not such a good plan and that prisoners will simply work in detention. In total, this own contribution can thus amount to €11,860. Make a simple calculation and add to it the debt that a prisoner already had and the costs that a prisoner holds, such as rent, gas, water, light of the home he or she left behind, but also the school costs of children, for example. What does the Secretary of State think an ex-con does when he has the choice between paying off the debt from the minimum income, the welfare.... if he tries to support his family, although he doesn't know if he can get any more bread on the shelf at all... and make quick money to actually feed his family? What will the prisoner choose? I can immediately ask this Secretary of State if he would like to play the following card directly to every prisoner: Congratulations, you are not going to start, you are going to go straight to prison. I assume that the Secretary of State has read the report of the round table, in which all experts have indicated that this bill is a threat to socialisation and increases the risk of recurrence. What message does the Secretary of State have for these experts? How does he respond to the fact that, in particular, the judges have indicated that they will be more lenient, because their own contribution and contribution to the costs of the proceedings are already more severe? How does he respond to the fact that it not only punishes the prisoner, but especially the family that is left behind? What does the Secretary of State say to the children who cannot help the fact that their parents are in detention? The parent made a mistake, because the child is the victim of it. What does the Secretary of State think of a partner who has to contribute to the debt if he is married in the community of goods? This one didn't do anything wrong, did it? Then why should the partner be punished? I'd like to get a response from the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u22	I am very curious about what the SP Group would say to victims, who have not asked for anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u23	I'll come to my proposal later. I agree that you can ask for your own contribution. I also agree that you can ask for a little bit of victim care. However, I find it very strange that you should punish a child for the actions of a parent. I don't think that's right. I would ask the Secretary of State and the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u24	Then I'd like to wait for the SP's proposal. Mrs Kooiman rightly says that it is not right for a child to be punished more or less for the parent's behaviour. My group would say, however, that if the parent had complied with the law, it would not have affected the child either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u25	I don't think that's exactly right. I'm a former family guardian and a former youth counselor and I've seen how much suffering a child sometimes has to experience. This is annoying. A child hasn't chosen his parent to be in detention. He didn't do that deed himself. I agree that a crook should be punished, but a child should not be punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u26	I still have one comment to make in proportion. It's in the law on detention care about €16 a day, to say "I'm saying it out of my head" €240 in social costs. The maximum amount of the penalty charge under the criminal procedure is €2,500. That's a lot of money, of course, for the person in question. However, how does Mrs Kooiman appreciate this in view of the possibility of a payment system and, if necessary, a waiver and in comparison with what Mrs Helder rightly claims, namely the suffering caused to the victims? And it's got to be funded from something, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u27	Look what prisoners have to live by after detention, if they also pay off their debt: 55% of them are on welfare benefits. The VVD chooses to continue collecting its own public money, but I don't think that's a good idea. I'd be much more for something else. I can tell Mr van Oosten that he has to wait for my proposal, but I can give him a hint of the veil. I think that prisoners should simply have pay so that they can deal with their own finances and actually pay their money, for example as a contribution to detention costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u28	I would like to go back to the origins of this bill: society should not bear that cost. That principle is shared by Mrs Kooiman. It appears, as I have just read from the explanatory memorandum, that the correct figures are those that more than 80% of prisoners have a job at any time after prison. Let us follow that assumption; it may also be a lower percentage as far as I am concerned. When you get income, you get to pay for that, don't you? What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u29	That income is public money. On page 11 of the explanatory statement, it is stated that 55% of ex-convicts receive welfare benefits six months after the end of detention. The VVD simply wants to continue collecting public money at the expense of security. The SP doesn't choose that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u30	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u31	I don't get it either. Let me throw it over that bow, too. Already in 2008, an investigation by the then cabinet, by PvdA Secretary of State Albayrak, showed that a personal contribution of detainees was not a viable map. Colleagues before me have already said this. This had to do with the criminogenic effect and high implementation costs. State Secretary Albayrak informed that the collection costs per case would be €1.570. With an expected number of 29,000 cases per year, the cost to the public authorities will therefore amount to at least EUR 45 million. High implementation costs combined with a high risk of recurrence therefore call into question the expected return of EUR 60 million. Can the Secretary of State explain why he didn't even look at this old investigation? After all, as Mr Schouw said earlier, you cannot pick feathers from a bare chicken. It is also too expensive to pick from a bare chicken feathers. There is in fact no comparable own contribution scheme for the residence of prisoners abroad. In Germany it is possible to charge the cost of staying in an establishment, but only at sufficient capacity. In practice it is hardly used, as I understand it, because it would stand in the way of re-socialization. Can the Secretary of State answer that? I know that the Secretary of State will say: that is not a problem, because there will be a payment arrangement. I have heard that from Mr Van Oosten. Now the SP has been taking action for years to ensure a normal payment arrangement at the CJIB, so I was already a bit hesitant when I saw the payment arrangement in the response by the directors. These are people who are willing to pay but unable to pay, and yet are held hostage if they cannot pay a traffic ticket. What exactly is this gonna look like? For example, when does someone have too little income or ability to qualify? Is existing debts also being taken into account? And is the Secretary of State prepared not to levy a contribution of his own on, for example, prisoners with a very large debt or a debt from the partner? In answering the questions of the SP Group, the cabinet states that ex-convicts, after receiving an even greater debt from the State, must go to the municipality for possible debt relief or debt restructuring. Is the Secretary of State going to ensure that people with an addiction can claim the route of debt restructuring? Unfortunately, a large part of the ex-con is also addicted or falls back into that pattern. People often say in debt restructuring: sorry, but addiction is a counter-indication for debt restructuring, so we don't hire you. I understand that, too, because it's up to the municipalities to let people in or not. The Secretary of State may refer to this himself, but municipalities are actually about it. Many municipalities also try to help other people, such as zzp'ers and homeowners, because they often have a hard time at the moment. The number of debtors is increasing rapidly and with this bill, the municipality will have another target group on its plate. Municipalities want to, but sometimes the rack is just out and they have to refuse people for debt relief. If the Secretary of State increases debts, is he prepared to finance the costs of debt relief? Has the Secretary of State had any contact with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs? It aims to reduce the number of people in debt. It's a bit of asking about the familiar road, but I'm gonna do it anyway. What does the Secretary of State think? Does this legislative proposal contribute to this objective? I don't think so, but I'd like to get a response from these regiments. This cabinet is simply carrying this out, without knowing what effect this has on municipalities, which are already barely able to sustain debt relief and which are being cut year in, year out. They will be given a huge task. Can the Secretary of State at least calculate the burden of this? As I said at the beginning of my speech, the SP is not necessarily opposed to collecting its own contribution to detention. The SP also has its own proposal for this. Make sure that prisoners can work in detention and receive a normal wage for that; so not that €0.76 per hour, because that is not a normal wage. Of course, I would prefer that prisoners, like everyone else in this society, should receive minimum income, but it would be a great deal if the Secretary of State, for example, were to look at France. There they have a more real picture of what an income should be. Of this wage, a prisoner must do three things. He has to pay his own contribution to the detention, he has to pay the fine to the victim and he has to pay off or save his debt. That's how you fight back. This creates a situation for the prisoner that is similar to the situation when he or she will be outside the facility. The victim is also in the first place and is working on paying off his debts. This reduces the risk of recidivism and leaves us with a safe society. I even want to think along, because it's very difficult to create a profitable business in detention. That's what the Secretary of State's gonna say. I have also thought about that. Currently, establishments have to deal with a whole procurement circus to enable labour in detention at all. This costs a lot, but there are also many companies in the region that would very much like to do business with the establishments. That is very difficult now, as I understand from the establishments. Can the Secretary of State see how this can be made as much as possible? I think everyone in my colleagues has been to work in an institution. So everyone knows that prisoners make a lot of beautiful things: sofas, chairs and tables. I was in Heerhugowaard last week. They had very nice barbecues there. I once tried to order something that I knew inmates made and that was incredibly beautiful. But it just can't be done. As a consumer, you can't order such a thing. It's a missed opportunity for the VVD that the SP should tell her how to broaden the market. It's a good tip. The same goes for making stuff by the government. The government buys hundreds of millions of products. Why can't she have a particle produced by the prisons themselves? I think that would care a lot of marketing costs and overhead. As you can see, Mr. Chairman, that's the way it can be. I would like to hear what the Secretary of State and the Minister will do with these good proposals from the SP. Then I come to another part of the law. I promised. Convicts, whether they are subject to prison or probation supervision, are also deemed to pay part of the criminal costs. These are the costs of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the NFI, the NIFP and the probation advice to the judge. Then you might think that's nice, because it benefits the organizations. There is nothing less true, because there is only savings. The public prosecutor cuts 134 million to 2018, 424 million to 2019 in the police, 9.6 million to 2018 and 21 million to parole. The case law is already in the red and the cuts go on to 92 million in 2018. That is pure austerity, so this law will only damage the rule of law. The rule of law is severely affected by this law. Everyone in the Netherlands is innocent until proven guilty and everyone is entitled to a fair trial. But that's where it's crunching into this law. Since a suspect is required to contribute to the costs of the proceedings, a suspect may feel hindered from summoning a witness or expert. How does the Secretary of State justify this? Is there still a fair trial in this way? Finally, I come to the cabinet's proposal to ask for its own contribution to victim care. It sounds very sympathetic and if the Secretary of State and the Minister have paid attention, they have heard that this is also part of my proposal. However, this bill, as it stands, is not well thought out. As prisoners already have to make a substantial contribution to their own trial costs and also make their own contribution to detention, they will no longer have the money to pay for those costs for victim care. I want this Secretary of State and the Minister to take real care of the victims and at least to have these costs paid first by the inmate. If you have to pay your own contributions for the trial and detention and then pay for the victim care, the victim is at the end of the journey. I want the victim to stand first. Well, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u32	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u33	That was a very long speech, but it is two very bad laws, which forced my group to explain this properly and also to come forward with proposals to combat the repeated crime, because the victims have been prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u34	Mr. Chairman. I am afraid that I will have to encourage Mrs Kooiman, because good proposals are supported by the CDA Group and bad ones are rejected. And just to get right to the point, the legislative proposals before us fall into the last category as far as the CDA Group is concerned. It's our firm belief that you can't pick from a bald chicken. Of course you can try, but then the chicken has to get feathers again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u35	Mr Oskam, and with him his entire CDA group, does it therefore quite normal that society should be burdened with costs caused by convicts and detainees, who have themselves chosen to set aside our rules and be imprisoned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u36	I should read the Acts back, but I don't think I said that. I will explain in a moment what I think of the plans, but the main thing is that we do not think it is a realistic plan. It has also been said by previous speakers: it is irrecoverable, it costs more than it brings and it is on the wrong side of the line in terms of re-socialization. That is why we are against it. I will also say that we are sympathetic to the idea and that it has also been discussed in previous cabinet formations. On balance, however, the plan as it stands is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u37	That's what I was secretly on my way to. Mr Oskam started by pointing out that these are bad legislative proposals. That also made me think that he thinks the starting point is completely wrong. The starting point, as laid down in both laws, is that society should not necessarily bear the costs as a whole because prisoners and convicts who cause them themselves, is therefore borne by the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u38	When people start asking questions after three seconds, of course I don't get to my story. In my second paragraph I would have liked to say that the polluter pays, that this is also the idea of the CDA, and that this also applies to these people. However, if you consider the plans in their context, it becomes a different story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u39	Normally I let a colleague speak first to hear what could then be improved, but after five seconds I couldn't resist either, because I heard the famous spell passing by that you can't pick from a bare chicken. However, my group has often said that a bald chicken does not always remain a bare chicken. We just had Easter and stay a little bit in the chicken mood. When I was a lawyer, I used to do this. If you were confronted with a claim and an assigning sentence for your client, but the other party didn't offer a story, then you wrote a note: we will collect that claim one day. After five years, just before the deadline expired that the claim would expire, you wrote another note to stop that statute of limitations. The core of the story is that if there ever is income or wealth, you can actually start to tell a part of it. Does that make the CDA's story any different? As I understand it, the core of her accusation is that you can't pick a bald chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u40	It doesn't make the story any different. In this kind of business, you have to be realistic. It's about people with problems. It's people in debt who commit crimes and end up in prison. Mr Van Oosten has already said that they may get a job or benefit, but they can only live a small life. They get bailiff after bailiff at the door. You can put people in such a tight spot that they'll never get out again. So you're just gonna get in more trouble. I think Mr Schouw has said it quite clearly: it costs a lot and is relatively low, probably less than it costs. Of course, you're already in the wrong place. In addition, we put people in prison first to discipline, so to have them punished, and secondly to re-socialize. I'm okay with people working in prison and if they make enough money to pay the costs. I'm fine with that, but it's not right now. I shall come back to that in a moment when I will give the calculation. So I don't think the plans that are there right now are a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u41	Here too, the core of the story is always that there are only people in debt in prison. 30% of the prisoners have no debts. I have already said that in my own contribution. For those people, the story that Mr Oskam just gave in answer to my question is not going to go away. I find this disappointing from the CDA Group. Why doesn't the CDA Group stand up for people in debt who are good with a job, maybe even a poorly paid job, trying to pay their debts and keep to the law? They are the ones who have to pay with their tax dollars for those who commit and have been convicted of a criminal offence. They knew exactly what they were doing, so they just have to contribute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u42	Mrs. Helder is well-known for wanting to be tough on criminals. So does the CDA, but my group believes that this can be done in a different way. If people commit criminal acts that make them wiser, you have to skim the profits. You have to pick them and make sure they get a compensation measure. There are plenty of methods in the current system to be tough on people. Then it is not appropriate to charge €16 per night with a certain maximum. I don't think that's gonna make any sense. Let us take a good look at the main lines and not at six figures behind the decimal point, because in the end we are not doing very much good. I will continue with my speech. In concrete terms, this means that prisoners must be allowed more than they are now to work in prison. That's what they learn, and that's how they come out better. If they're out of detention, they might be able to find a job to pay off their debts. However, the current practice in the Netherlands is that 60% to 70% of prisoners work up to half a day, at an average weekly wage of €15.20. I will ask some questions about this later, also in relation to the situation abroad. Now comes my answer to Mr Van Oosten's question. In the first instance, the legislative proposals and the passage in the coalition agreement seem sympathetic and logical. Those who commit and are convicted of a criminal offence should also contribute to the costs of criminal proceedings. Those who stay in prison or in a TBs clinic must pay a contribution, just like for a guest house. Of course, the CDA fully supports the polluter pays principle, but I am thinking of other examples. In this way, offenders of the court may be subject to a compensation measure. Furthermore, the criminal property of a convicted person can be picked and crime victims can be compensated for damage suffered. But this bill does not take into account the influence of the judge, because there is some kind of administrative burden imposed, with the sole aim of covering budget gaps. The Minister is known to love history. We would therefore like to look back at the way things have been arranged in parliamentary history. Since 1896 there has been a contribution scheme for certain costs of criminal proceedings. This raises the question of why no one has come up with the idea of extending this contribution scheme until the Rutte II cabinet. Mr Schouw said that in 2008, at the time, Secretary of State Albayrak of the Labour Party investigated the further calculation of the costs in the establishment. The cabinet didn't want that at the time. Why does this cabinet choose to charge an amount of up to almost €12,000 for a stay in an establishment and also €1,400 to a maximum of €2,800 for a conviction with the criminal court? The CDA Group notes that the idea behind these proposals is not even punitive in nature. Because then there could be an interesting debate. Mr Segers has just made a bit of a move. I think the big reason is a lot simpler and also killer. It's really about budget cuts. Both legislative proposals are designed to achieve a total cut of 65 million. The contribution to the costs of the criminal proceedings should amount to 53 million. The net proceeds of the victim care contribution should be 5 million. The other bill for the contribution of detainees should yield 7 million. The unfortunate thing is that only a small proportion, 8.4% of the proceeds, is to the benefit of the victim care contribution. You might be able to get it out of the picking money, which is now just going to the Treasury Department. The CDA Group asks the Minister to address the significant start-up losses in the first three years as a result of his legislative proposal. The total start-up loss is 34 million in the first three years; 28 million in the first year, 5 million in the second and 1 million in the third. Is it true that in the first few years this bill will only lead to losses rather than profits? And can the Minister indicate how these costs are covered within the total budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice? The Minister has indicated that he is fully aware that the financial position of the part of the detainees affected by the bill is limited. The big question is why he is taking this risk, also in view of the opinions of the experts who were also heard in the hearing on the indirect consequences for recurrent and re-socialisation. I'd like to receive a response to that. For the sake of clarity, I should like to say that the next questions are for the Secretary of State. In the end, I'll ask the Minister some more questions. The Secretary of State's proposals are worth studying. It is about the sympathetic idea that people should actually pay for this in society and those with costs. The question is whether it is realistic. The Secretary of State has opted for its own contribution of €16 per day in an establishment. The rate of collection associated with it is of course all analysed in advance. So only a small part of it can be collected. The Secretary of State himself states that this is actually a very low percentage. Nor does he consider it unrealistic that it will be so low in practice. If it is only such a small percentage, the CDA Group can only ask the Secretary of State what the added value of this contribution measure is. Very interesting in this respect is the question to what extent a convicted person will be able to work during his detention and thereby pay off debts imposed by the government. I come to Mr Van Oosten's point. If people can work hard in prison and they earn a substantial sum there, it would be only right that they should contribute to their pension, so to speak. But it's not right now. The Secretary of State states that an inmate earns an average of €15.20 per week. With a maximum surcharge this can amount to double, or €30.40 per week. However, as Mrs Helder said, external contributions may increase this amount, up to a maximum of €500 per month. In 2014, the CDA Group was quite critical of the amount that prisoners can receive and spend on a monthly basis. However, the CDA Group is not in favour of taking back the money they receive through labour and can earn. In fact, the Secretary of State's proposals put these people even more into debt after detention. They have to pay more per day than they can earn on average per week. If that is not the reverse world, I ask the Secretary of State. Furthermore, the CDA Group notes that the Secretary of State has not carried out a comparative legal investigation into the way in which other countries contribute to the costs of staying in an establishment. The Minister for Security and Justice discussed the situation in other countries very extensively in his bill, but this was omitted from the Secretary of State's bill. Why, that's my question, because it just stands out. The Secretary of State states that there is less known about this arrangement in other countries. But isn't it true that this method of passing through simply doesn't exist in many EU Member States? It is true that, among other things, a contribution to the criminal trial is requested in France, Germany and England. However, the figures also show that prisoners in these countries are much more able than in the Netherlands to work for their money during their detention. Those figures are outlined in the note following the report. In England, the maximum wage is £40. That has been converted €54. That is more than the triple of the maximum wage in the Netherlands. In France there is an hourly wage of up to €4,32. Four hours of work is therefore equal to about one week's salary in the Netherlands. So these are big differences. In Germany, convicted persons earn around 9% of the average income set at €34.020 for 2015. Converted means a week's salary of €70 per convict. So that's five times as much as in the Netherlands. What conclusions does the Secretary of State draw from these different employment opportunities in Europe with regard to the legislative proposals before us? It seems clear to the CDA Group: of course you can ask for compensation from prisoners, but they must be able to earn and pay back reasonably. The way in which it has been designed is precisely how prisoners are burdened with debt, and that does not mean that it is motivating. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. The CDA Group also wants to know what the announced wage scheme will look like in practice. Do these amounts come close to the amount of accommodation costs that are lost per day? That might make the situation different. The CDA Group asks the Secretary of State to indicate in percentage terms to what extent lifelong punishments can contribute to the estimated savings of 7 million. After all, he himself states that it is not in line with the expectation that lifelong punishments will pay their contribution, because it is only after the end of detention that the maximum amount of €11,680 will be payable, as Mrs Helder has already said. The CDA Group also wants to know what impact both proposals have on the austerity, now that no contribution will be required from those sentenced to whom no penalty has been imposed. I'll come back to the maximum amount. The Secretary of State states that 1,313 of the 3,521 persons who were in detention in 2013 were in prison for two years or more. 37% of the prisoners are therefore subject to a debt of €11,680 after detention. Both the Minister and the State Secretary state that it is not possible to say in advance whether the legislative proposals result in additional pressure on the special assistance or municipal debt relief. Anyway, we all have a glass ball and we think we do. The UNG has, of course, already warned against this. It seems extremely naive when you say that you don't know if it will lead to extra pressure. After all, it is almost impossible for people who go out of prison and do not get proof of good behavior to come to work and will therefore still rely on the municipality. Add to that that approximately one third of the prison population already had welfare benefits at the start of detention. That is in the monitoring aftercare of the WODC and also appeared during the hearing in December. Well, that's a good thing to think about. In addition, 70% of prisoners are already in debt at the start of detention and 30% to 35% are in debt above €10,000. How does the Secretary of State see the implementation of his legislative proposals in the future on top of this current practice? Finally, I have a point for the Secretary of State. The Minister of Security and Justice writes that it is not real to expect prisoners to be able to pay the contribution during detention as a whole. The CDA Group would like a response from the Secretary of State. Does he accept, as a ruler who is responsible for the prison system, that the present proposals have the effect of encouraging prisoners to leave prison with debt? Can he include the information that shows that 60% of the contributors will be subject to a payment scheme and that debt pay-off will therefore remain a concern for the ex-convicts for many years, and also for the State Secretary who cannot raise that money and who must obtain his budget? I also have a number of questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u43	If I have followed it all correctly, I have not heard Mr Oskam speak about the possible burden on wealthy criminals. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u44	I did not talk about this, but as far as I am concerned it is in the polluter-pays principle. If people can pay, I'm fine with them contributing to society for what they get. So if you have enough money, you can pay for that boarding house you get in jail. If people do not have that money, then it will lead to problems if they return to society and problems for the administrators who put it in their budget but do not bring that money in, which also leads to problems for us and for the entire Justice budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u45	I indicated in my first term that, as far as my group is concerned, wealthy criminals would have to pay a little more. At that time I received a justified question from Mr Schouw from the D66 Group. In response, I indicated that I am thinking about a motion or an amendment to try to achieve that. I am now asking my colleague from the CDA Group, in view of the motion tabled at the time by my colleague De Roon, which literally has the title 'to address the assets of convicted criminals for the costs of detention'. The CDA Group was in favour of that motion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u46	Could you just repeat that last one for a second? 'Cause I was thinking about something else for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u47	I said that's what the CDA group was for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u48	No, it was the point that mattered to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u49	The motion has the title "to address the assets of convicted criminals for the costs of detention" and that is what your group was in favour of in 2007.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u50	I don't know about that last one. I have just said that this point has played a significant role in several cabinet formations. The CDA is not in favour of it. That was also the case with Rutte I. At that time it was also on the agenda and these plans were not further developed. That is clear, because under the present cabinet they have been further developed. On behalf of the CDA Group, I believe that wealthy people can contribute to their detention; that is no problem. The only question is whether you should do so through this legislative proposal or whether the Justice Department has sufficient other and much more efficient resources. I am thinking in particular of resources where you can steer more broadly rather than small amounts such as €16 per day. And that's the pick-she-law. We would like to discuss this further with the Minister, in order to give it much more form. A lot is already being picked, but much more can be picked. Then that money comes back to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u51	I'm still chewing on it a little bit. If I go back too far in time, of course you'll correct me, Mr. President. Mr Segers expressed his regret that what is now being proposed is not a punitive sanction...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u52	You mean Mr. Oskam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u53	Yes, I mean Mr. Oskam, excuse me. He said that he regretted that what is now being proposed was not a punitive sanction but an administrative sanction. If, however, Mr Oskam shares the point of view that we have just agreed on, namely that society should not be allowed to fall into that racket again, should he agree with me that what exactly the damage is and how it should be done in the interests of detainees and convicts etc. should not be taken into account by the judge? The mere fact that he has to stay in a prison is, after all, title enough to be able to pronounce.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u54	I didn't say I'm sorry it wasn't punitive. I think it's more convenient if one judge looks at it. I will come to that later in the part of my contribution which is intended for the Minister. What's happening now is this. You're gonna join the criminal court and you're gonna get picked. You're being punished. Then the Minister gets over it with his taxes. Then the Secretary of State gets over it with his taxes. Then you can go back to the board judge for that. But it's not punishment. If it were a punishment, we could have talked about it. What I heard at the hearing was that the President-in-Office of the Council said before the Court of Justice: of course, the judge will soon take this into account. I shall come back to that later in my speech. A lawyer does this, too. He will say to the judge: listen, it's all nice and nice, but soon Minister Van der Steur will come and impose a tax of €2,800 if you condemn this person. Then the judge thinks, "I'm wiggling and weighing how much money he's got and what kind of penance I'm gonna impose." If €2,800 is also imposed, the judge will opt for a lower fine. You don't need a glass ball for that; that's just gonna happen. That's why I think it's a clumsy system. It evokes a lot of administrative things. The board judge needs to look at it again, when he doesn't know the whole thing. So I wonder if this is a good bill. That's what I'm shouting out loud. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u55	The latter is your right, but we remain divided on the basis. I'll look back in the explanatory statement. All kinds of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights are cited. I assume that judges in our country will be somewhat guided by that. The ECHR says that there is a difference between a sentence as such, the sentence and the measures around it. That is why I always point out: if we share the principle that you may charge costs for the duration of your stay, which is a certain amount, then you may want to stay away from having a judge and so on, in the form of such a punitive punishment. Then you have to shape it administratively. But I understood that you didn't pronounce the qualification "too bad." Maybe I should have introduced the question differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u56	We share the polluter pays principle. I agree. So the principle is that if people cause costs or misery, they have to pay for it. The CDA Group shares this point of departure with the VVD Group. Only the bill is, I say it in my own words, a vulgar austerity operation. We can't agree with that. I shall continue with the questions to the Minister, and in particular with regard to the rules governing the individual contribution of the sentenced person to the criminal proceedings themselves and their administrative content. Is it true that it cannot be excluded that the criminal court in its judgment does not declare this administrative action of the government applicable to the convicted person? I ask this because the Minister himself has indicated that due to the possibilities of a payment arrangement there is less need for the criminal court to take account of the contribution due when imposing the penalty. In view of these terms, you might ask yourself whether it is going to happen in practice. Is that right? I think it is true, because at the hearing on 18 December last, the President-in-Office of the Council stated in the case-law that the judge naturally takes account of all the relevant circumstances of the case. In the context of the preceding question, however, I would like to make specific reference to the administrative passing on of the costs of the criminal proceedings under the present legislative proposal 34067. The Minister states that he expects the judiciary to deal with this bill as if it were some sort of registry law. The question is whether this is naïve, given the clear warning given by the President-in-Office of the Council to the Court of Justice at the hearing. The CDA Group explicitly asks the Minister to comment on the following. In view of the scale of the cuts, it is not appropriate that the Minister does not anticipate this before the end of the year or that he makes specific arrangements with the judiciary. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. The CDA Group also asks him to comment on the possibilities of the administrative judge to cancel the contribution. The possibility of remission has been mentioned earlier this evening. Wouldn't it be crazy if the driver is able to do this but the criminal who imposes the underlying sentence doesn't get this opportunity? In his assessment, does the criminal court not take much more account of all the circumstances of the case, including the personal financial situation of the defendant, if he still has to pay the administrative tax? An even worse effect of this bill would be for judges to acquit, dismiss or declare guilty, but without punishment, in order to avoid a contribution. The Minister states that he is not expecting this, but to what extent can he rule it out? How does he intend to prevent this? Has he discussed this, or is he going to do so, with the Council of Justice? Speaking of justice. What exactly are the consequences for the workload? The case-law Council expected the proposals to result in an increase of 1,600 cases per year, which means an increase in the workload, in terms of money, of €300,000. These are substantial amounts in years in which the case law will write red figures, i.e. 11 million in minus, as a result of the government's cuts. The Minister himself has some doubts about these figures. We had an AO case law on this last week, but can he show what the financial workload will be? The Minister also states that, if the Council's estimate is followed, the estimated cost of the procedures is not proportionate to the expected net revenue from the legislative proposals, budgeted at 65 million. That is a special reasoning, because the proceeds of these cuts are for the benefit of the state's finances, or is the case-law, as a result, getting back the extra costs incurred by means of the annual budget? I would like clarity on this and not until November. The implementation costs of the proposals are between 5 and 6 million, as we read in the note following the report. Are they now covered by the budget of V and J, or are the organisations concerned, in particular the case law and the Central Administration Office, supposed to make this financial space themselves in their 2015 budget? They'll get into even more trouble. The contribution scheme has no relation to the actual costs incurred in the individual criminal case. There are, of course, good arguments for this. I understand that, but there are different consequences. This may lead to a situation in which the court finds that certain investigative powers have been wrongly used. The defendant is found guilty despite that, and he is punished. He must then contribute to the costs of the criminal proceedings, including those parts which have not been found to be lawful by the court at all. Isn't that a little weird? Another situation also gives rise to strangeness. Highly wealthy criminals or criminals who are demonstrably financially maintained by their surroundings have lost the same amount of costs for their criminal proceedings as convicted persons who are already on assistance before they enter detention. For example, an addicted revolving door criminal is treated financially in the same way as, for example, a Cees H. Please respond to that from the minister. Then there's the impact analysis. The Minister considers that the impact analysis, after the consultation period has been completed, can best reflect the input from the consultation, as the impact of the changes made following the opinions could be fully reflected in the analysis. You can turn it around. In the consultations, consulted bodies could not include the very defining data, including the collection rates, i.e. I mentioned the 14% rate in the assessment of the legislative proposals. Has the government considered holding a second round of consultations? Has the Minister received any comments from the interested parties or the parties initially consulted after becoming public from the impact analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u57	Mr. Chairman. I have already brought it up a number of times in interruptions: as far as the VVD Group is concerned, it is not self-evident, nor should it be self-evident that society should take full responsibility for the choices of perpetrators of crime and the consequences of violations of our criminal law by convicted persons. It's very simple. We can therefore fully endorse the starting point that is contained in both legislative proposals. The costs of the criminal proceedings, as well as the costs of detention, should be partly passed on to the perpetrators. I honestly do not think it is unreasonable for anyone to pay for the government, all of us, to charge society with very high costs resulting from their generally well-considered choices that do not relate to the rules we have agreed in this country: you do not commit a sex crime, you do not commit murder, you do not break in. They're pretty basic findings. I am pleased to note that most, if not all, share this point of departure. If you don't follow those rules, you'll be locked up or at least convicted. That will cost a great deal of money. Why should we not charge a piece of that? I believe that this responsibility also extends so far that it is certainly reasonable to contribute, at least for a part, to the costs of victim care, which are also paid out of general funds and are therefore borne by the same society again with public money. I am not saying anything new from this place, because I have already said this in an interruption debate with a colleague: I do not think that these costs are being passed on. A day in prison costs €240 and we are talking about €16 per day. I'm just putting it in perspective. In the most extreme case, €11,000 to €12,000 will be charged to an inmate. Most of them will be far from getting there, because they simply will not be in detention for so long. Nor do I find the amounts charged to a convicted person in criminal proceedings to be disproportionate in all honesty. In the most extreme case it will be about €2,500. The amount can be much lower if you're only convicted by the canton judge. It still remains a lot of money, but it is also very easy to avoid being burdened with such costs, namely by just keeping to the rules. I am not blind to the challenges posed by this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u58	The VVD is always talking about the cost to society, but what does Mr Van Oost think of him placing society with an unsafe situation, because having debt is one of the greatest risks of falling back into old behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u59	I have read the pieces well and I have remembered two names well, namely Prof. Tak and Mrs. Jungmann. There is no doubt that the Minister and the Secretary of State will come back to it separately, but both persons have been in charge of extensive studies which do exactly the same research. I was just about to start with the second part of my contribution, because I am not blind to the challenges, but I think it is too easy to say that debt or a complicated financial position should lead to the possibility that a prisoner or a convicted person should not be expected to contribute. Why not? He chooses it, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u60	Mr Oskam and I have already said that judges indicate that they will no longer impose this. They're not gonna put someone in jail anymore, because there's a risk that people will get more debt. Mr Van Oosten was also present at the hearing. If he really wants to make society safer, if he wants to put away thugs every now and then, why does the VVD choose this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u61	I have great doubts that the judges will immediately reduce the administrative burden both for the stay in detention and for the taxation of criminal proceedings and the costs involved. I have just quoted those judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. I don't have any leads on this either. Moreover, I do not think that the amounts we are talking about are such that I think this will happen immediately. All this, apart from the fact that it is essentially a matter of something else: the judges who judge the punishment that relates to what the prospective inmate, or at that time the suspect, has done. The judges are not about administrative costs, if I may put it so mildly, which are linked to them. That basis is different. It can only be related to the fact that you are staying in a prison and for that you are maintained by the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u62	Then Mr Van Oosten did not hear the Council's case-law, because the Council has actually indicated that he considers this to be a criminal offence and that he will take that into account. I myself proposed that inmates should at least receive a normal wage, allowing them to actually pay their debt and any compensation to the victim. Then they can actually contribute to detention. Now they have to pay €16 a day when they don't even earn it a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u63	I have just heard your contribution and I find it interesting to think about it. You also know that as a VVD we always think you should work if you can work, whether you are in captivity or not. But I have also read the answers of the cabinet to the questions raised by my predecessor in the group in this area. I understand and see that it's complicated at the moment to introduce about 40-hour working week, regardless of the amount you make. Let us rethink that. In my view, this is quite separate from the fact that it is certainly reasonable that you should not expect society to pay all these costs, but that prisoners, including those who later have an income, should be able to pay quite a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u64	I hear Mr van Oosten saying that it is not obvious that judges are going to do so. We know the ZSM system, in which a case is often dealt with through the prosecutor, but the next step is to go to the police judge. If a person commits his third theft, he will be fined €250 or €300 or perhaps a suspended prison sentence, but then the Registry Law will be €1,380. Mr Van Oosten has been a lawyer himself. Doesn't he think that attorneys are going to argue to the police judge that he can impose a fine, but that their client of Minister Van der Steur is already getting an account of €1,380?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u65	You have just heard me answer Mrs Kooiman's question. That was a similar question, but supported by a few fewer figures. But no, I don't have that conviction. I know there are some people who do have questions about this; perhaps you are one of them. I don't have those questions. I have just had an interrupting debate with myself on this subject for a very short period of time, which has a different basis, i.e. the transit of criminal proceedings or the length of detention, and not the offence or the conviction and the reason as such. Perhaps the Minister and the Secretary of State could add to this in their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u66	There are different assessments being made here. It is true that we cannot look into a glass ball, but we can see after two years whether this will lead to lower penalties. Do judges indeed decide that they will punish otherwise because there will be a post-tax? We can check whether this is bad for the recurrent figures. We can see if people can come out of their debts. Could such figures, after two years, convince the VVD Group that perhaps we have taken a path that we should not have taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u67	Is your question implicit whether the VVD could support an evaluation or something? I do not know whether this has already been raised by one of my colleagues in the written round. In most cases this has already been done and such a request is generally approached positively by the cabinet. I would not immediately know why to oppose it, because every law we make with each other needs to be able to look at it carefully afterwards. But the starting point, the principles that lie underneath and the arguments for getting there do not lead me to any kind of doubt whether you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u68	I'm hearing assessments, and we don't know how it's gonna work out. What if judges are going to punish lower, something the VVD Group doesn't want? Let's say recidivism rates go up or debt positions are unsustainable. Would that be arguments and reasons for the VVD Group to say: we are going to reconsider this and keep it critically under review? Are these the criteria on which the VVD Group will assess the implementation of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u69	For the record, I would like to emphasise that I was not the one who talked about estimates, assumptions or assumptions. On the contrary, I have mentioned facts. I have said that we have all been able to read that a day in prison costs €240. I have said that I find it unreasonable that these costs should be borne entirely by society. That is what I said, and I pointed out a fact. That's how much it costs a day in prison. At least that's what I'm assuming. Mr Segers then asked what effect this has on socialisation and so on. For that I refer to two investigations in which I have confidence, but I would naturally like to hear the Minister and the Secretary of State discuss this further. The spokesmen have asked a lot of sensible questions about this and I am curious, with them, to hear the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u70	Please continue with your speech. No, it is not, because Mr Schouw has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u71	Sorry, Chairman. I am still not quite clear what the aim of this bill is for the VVD Group. I have a choice menu. Is the objective: the polluter pays? I'm just gonna steal that target from the CDA. Or is it intended to cover a budget deficit of 65 million? Is it about the money or the principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u72	Well, if Mr Schouw has such a choice menu for me and I have to choose between variant a and variant b, then I'll give you the answer I've actually been giving all evening. I have already said it in interruptions of Mr Schouw's speech, but I am also saying it now in my own contribution. I think it is perfectly normal that society should not only bear the cost of the convicts and prisoners themselves. I think it is only natural that society should not just take the fall for that. It is true that this also generates money, which in turn contributes to solving the budgetary problem. However, it begins with the starting principle, which I believe is shared by Mr Schouw. I liked that last one to establish.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u73	I have experience that Mr Van Oosten is a very good listener. There is a great deal of widespread criticism about the way in which this is done. So that criticism is not really about the principle. A large part of the Chamber has serious doubts as to whether the way in which this is going to happen will bring money at all. In fact, a number of large parties in the Chamber think that this is going to cost instead of making money. Will the VVD Group even continue to support this proposal if it costs money, because its main purpose for the VVD Group is to introduce the principle and be laid down in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u74	It's very simple. I share Mr Schouw's observation that the spokesmen of all the parties who have spoken so far say that it will cost money. However, I do not share that observation. I can't trace that from all the contributions I've heard tonight. So I hear Mr Schouw say this and I listen very carefully, but it is not the interpretation that I then give to the contributions as I have listened to them. I have all heard the spokesmen ask very sensible questions. Everyone has asked sensible questions, which are also seen on the execution. I was on my way to ask questions like that myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u75	Please continue with your speech, Mr van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u76	Mr President, may I ask another final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u77	No, we'll do the interruptions in half. That's what happened tonight for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u78	I saw Mrs Kooiman do her interruption in three parts, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u79	Then Mrs. Kooiman just slipped in. That is the exception that confirms the rule. Mr van Oosten continues his speech. Perhaps you will just get an answer to your question, Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u80	At least I do not get an answer to this question, Mr President. So I'm just gonna be here in three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u81	I'm facing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u82	Very effective, all of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u83	I wanted to get to the fact that, of course, the VVD Group is also not blind to the challenges in the implementation of this law. Because, yes, I agree as spokesperson that many of the convicts, prisoners and ex-cons don't have the most flourishing financial position. The resources are sometimes limited or even very limited. I'm not denying that. However, I am in turn opposed to the fact that, unfortunately, this also applies to many other people in this country. These are people who have not chosen to break the rules and who are not obliged to stay in prison as a result of their own choices. But that is why I am extremely happy with the fact that both the Minister and the Secretary of State propose in both legislative proposals a very sympathetic package of measures for the refunds that the prisoner or the convicted person must make. We can be a little laughing about that, but not all the people in this country who suffer from debt because they have signed up or bought something on pay-off or make it up, will be given the possibility that their debt will at some point simply be forgiven. That is what is now included in the letter of amendment. It is possible that the debt may be cancelled in full. I think it's a big deal. Payment arrangements can be made, even on an individual basis. I think it's a decent safety net. Then I come where I left off: there are, of course, challenges. I have heard many wise and interesting questions from colleagues. In part, I can agree, for example, with questions about achieving the expected revenue of 60, 65 million. I would like to hear from the Minister and Secretary of State how they are going to shape this, so that at the end of the journey we have not only worked out that principle, but we can also set aside the results we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u84	I am trying to see whether Mr Van Oosten has understood it as well as I think I understand it. A large number of groups have asked all kinds of questions very politely and neatly, but between the lines you can hear: we are not going to support this. I have heard that from a number of groups. I've also looked forward to the First Chamber. We still have to listen to the SGP, but if I put them together like that, I think there are 30 seats for this bill. In view of these two new rulers and the time we spend together on this, would it not be much wiser to say to the cabinet: go back to finish and make a much better bill that meets the starting point? This bill is probably not going to make it here. The Labour Party is going to support it with pain in the heart. You don't want to do that to two new, fresh VVD executives, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u85	I am very concerned about the fate of this Minister and Secretary of State in this and other matters, including the future. It is also very kind that Mr Schouw wants to take that care on his shoulders, but just for the record: we are here in the House of Representatives. We are dealing here with our decisions. We cannot anticipate what is next to be done in the First Chamber. Here's what I've heard. A number of colleagues have indicated that they are sympathetic to this and that they can share the starting point, Mrs Helder first, but also other colleagues and Mr Schouw himself. I think that's a very good base. I read a lot of confidence in this Minister and Secretary of State to further develop that. Mr Schouw has also heard my contribution. I have critical questions about the execution and so on, but I am not negative in this. And I work in the Lower House. Mr Schouw will have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u86	I know. I also work in the Lower House, but I'm not blind to what happens in other Chambers. I hear what my fellow Members are saying here, and that is what I want to say. Firstly, we share the starting point, but the way it's going to be organised is not effective. The costs are much higher than the benefits. Secondly, the risk of recidivism is enormous, which is why we are not going to vote in favour of this proposal. So I ask my question again: why does the VVD want to wear it to two new rulers to bang their noses in the First Chamber in a week or six or seven? That is a fact. That's just gonna happen. Why do we not now instruct these two rulers to make a new proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u87	I am not going to repeat what makes my group in favour of these two legislative proposals. It is about the commitment of my group. I have heard several Members asking wise and sensible questions; I am very curious about the answers to those questions. But I do not anticipate any consequences, consequences and choices that apply to another part of our States-General.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u88	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the two new rulers. This is for me the first introduction to them in their new position. I wish them every success in a difficult but very grateful ministry. The core of today's legislative changes is that those responsible will contribute to the costs of criminal proceedings and to the costs of staying in a judicial establishment. The PvdA supports the legislative amendments before us tonight. The cost of the criminal process, victim care and detention must be reduced by the state and thus society's costs by allowing the convicts or prisoners to contribute to the costs of the criminal process, victim care and detention. The person responsible shall contribute to the costs incurred. As far as our party is concerned, that principle is a guiding principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u89	I have just reversed the archive, where I came across a contribution from Mrs Bouwmeester from 2008. We all know Mrs Bouwmeester: she was a spokesperson in this area at the time. She said something very interesting about this proposal: we really see payment for detention as a punishment. Mr Teeven................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is not feasible, but we are also simply against it in principle, according to Mrs Bouwmeester of the Labour Party, still Member of Parliament. What happened to that group, that it left that basic trail since 2008?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u90	Mr Schouw referred to a proposal at the time to raise his own contribution, launched by then Secretary of State Albayrak. This was a different way of collecting that own contribution. As far as my party is concerned, the principle of asking for a contribution in what caused the cause is at the moment at issue. In this we see added value in the proposed legislative changes. At that time it was an own contribution of €193, where it was assumed that this was not the case in the neighbouring countries as such. But the polluter pays principle, expressed by a number of other parties, is now on the agenda for my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u91	So do I have to understand that what Mrs Bouwmeester said at the time was not feasible, but we are simply against it as a matter of principle, and we are aware of the amount?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u92	And also in the way in which at that time the implementation of the own contribution was shaped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u93	Please continue with your speech. I see that Mrs Kooiman wants to place another interruption at the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u94	I'd like to get another quote from Mrs. Bouwmeester. At the time, we used to hang out very often. She said in 2008 that making a prisoner contribute with a family carries the risk of disrupting an entire system. I know the Labour Party as a party that has submitted an initiative paper on this issue. It is true: the moment you levy that own contribution, which was also said during the RTC, the child must also make a contribution to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u95	Mrs Kooiman knows that I have reviewed the initiative paper on children of inmate parents and that I have indicated to the previous Secretary of State of V and J and to the Secretary of State of VWS that I have concerns about the care of these children. However, I see that the implementation of the proposals before us takes account of the minimum standard of living. I agree with the parties who say that the child must not become a victim of his parents' actions. I think that, in the implementation as it is now, everything is being done to ensure that the children are not, at least in the financial sense, put at risk. That they are victims of their parents' actions, that's right. This is due to the actions of their parents, not to the way in which the collection of their own contribution is now being implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u96	Of course the child is also the victim. If the majority of prisoners already had an average debt of about €10,000 at the start and if only €11,000 is added when they are released, then the child is of course a victim. A partner is also included in the payment scheme. How can the Labour Party be in favour of this bill? Isn't it contrary to all the other statements she's made before?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u97	It is not at odds with all the other statements that have been made. The way in which the collection is now implemented means that we do not expect any additional problems for the minimum standard of living of the family. I share the concerns about the children and the partners of the inmates. In this respect, I am also curious about the response of both directors to the concerns and questions raised by Mrs Kooiman. I would like to come back to this later and say that I too do not think that should be the case. I see, however, that the way in which the collection is carried out, I refer to the possibility of absolving, postponing payment and the personalised collection strategy, as so beautifully called, cannot actually lead children to suffer financially from what their parents have done. This is without prejudice to the fact that they are affected by the detention of their parents. We share the concerns about this. I also share Mrs Kooiman's concern. I therefore ask the directors to take a good look at this and to have an eye for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u98	The concerns in 2008 were as follows. Is it proportional? What does it do to the family? What about the debt position? And someone should not be punished twice for one offense. Those concerns are still there, I suppose, only the assessment is now: it is proportional or it can all just be. I ask the question I also asked Mr Van Oosten: what are the red lines that cannot be crossed in the implementation of this bill? How do we keep an eye on the fact that, in practice, the concerns that lived there and which are apparently now partly removed or far less alive are not being realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u99	Mr Segers also read that the AMvB, which sets out how the implementation is being implemented, lays down very clear, minimum conditions. These also guarantee families do not sink through the ice. I refer to the Recofa measure and the duty-free foot. This meets his and my fears, but I would also like to hear from both government officials that it is not going to happen because of the ice. There are situations in which there are debts for detention, in addition to any debts accumulated through criminal proceedings and detention. We need to get a good look at them. That particular piece is also mentioned during detention. Both directors, and in particular the Secretary of State, indicate that this should play a role during detention. This can all contribute to ensuring that we do not now have to fear that this will cause families to sink through the ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u100	The concerns of that time still partly live with organisations involved in reintegration and re-socialisation. If the light in the House of Representatives and in the First Chamber goes green for this bill and it starts in practice, how are we going to be there and can we be there when those concerns about those families, for example as regards the debt position and the recurrent figures, are still alive? In other words, how do we keep the finger on the wrist? That is a very serious concern for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u101	The Labour Party shares the concern about at least not having an effect on recidivism and a possible deterioration in the position of families. We would therefore like an early evaluation; not as usual after five years, but earlier. I would also like a response from both directors, because this is a reason for us to look not so much at the principle of both legislative changes as at the way in which they are implemented. I can imagine that particular attention will be paid to the risk groups in order to adjust the collection strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u102	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u103	By allowing the convicts or prisoners to contribute to the costs of criminal proceedings, victim care and their detention, the costs for the State and thus society must be reduced, but again: the principle is governing the Labour Party. In this respect, there are also conditions for the way in which both legislative changes are designed. I share what Mr van Oosten said: there are challenges to these legislative changes. Their own contribution must not be at the expense of the rehabilitation of ex-convicts. Again: not in all cases are the bare chickens mentioned above. There are indeed birds that can be asked for their own contribution. The Labour Party understands the objective and supports the principle, but wants to prevent the risk of re-socialization from decreasing and the recurrent increase. The enforcement of criminal sanctions costs money, most of which involve staying in a judicial institution. These costs are caused by a limited number of individuals and are the result of the offences they have committed. The question is whether these costs should only be borne by society. In particular, the group in detention is a target group that may raise collection-specific problems and requires careful implementation. I am pleased to note that the Secretary of State, who is dealing with this issue, has these concerns too. We are concerned about the awareness in the Cabinet of the possible risks these legislative changes may have for this group. It must be very clear that the short-term effects should not adversely affect the long-term opportunities of this group. The Labour Party is therefore committed to preventing possible adverse effects of the legislative proposals. We therefore have questions on a number of points, like some other parties. No one wants to repeat these prisoners as a result of these legislative proposals. The government doesn't want that either; that's what I'm assuming. Relapse is detrimental to safety and quickly more expensive than the return of the own contribution. However, the note on the report states that there is no direct link between debt and crime at the most, but this indirect link is a risk factor for the success of these legislative changes. Mr Van Oosten of the VVD referred to this earlier. Both legislative proposals have been carefully considered in terms of the feasibility of bringing in €65 million. However, there is no impact analysis of the consequences for debt, the social problems arising from it and its consequences for re-socialisation. Find an apartment, for example. I therefore ask for an explanation from the govern ments. How do they see the indirect consequences for recidivism and the negative effect on socialisation and how do they intend to prevent it? I therefore also want this to be properly monitored, because if there is a negative consequence of both legislative changes, my party wants that usefulness and necessity to be re-examined against the objective. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State, because it concerns in particular its own contribution to detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u104	Is this forecasted revenue of 65 million jobs assigned to the Labour Party? It was so explicitly mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u105	The proposal looked at what could be saved. The figure was 65 million. That's what we're assuming. Once again, in the case of collection rates, for example, perhaps I am going to go against him a little bit now too, the calculations have been based on the old situation. There was also much less eye for that personal collection strategy. I imagine it's not that bad either. In the short term this amount will not be collected, but precisely because of this personal collection strategy the final amount will be higher. This would allow us to make an additional saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u106	I think the letter from the VNG has been read that the sum of direct revenue and indirect costs may also be negative. In other words, isn't the whole calculation there now a form of speculation and wet fingering? Isn't it wise to have a fight to keep arms on the booking of certain amounts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u107	I think there has just been a blow to the arm at the rate of collection. That's deliberately low-level. Once again, I can imagine that with a personal collection strategy there might be higher collections, but I share Mr Schouw's view that we should focus on the impact on resocialisation and the effect on recidivism. Any savings should not be looked at too short-sightedly. So again my question: how do the two rulers view this? How do they prevent possible long-term adverse effects in case of short-term savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u108	I find Mr Schouw's point interesting. Are the 60 million cuts being made? And if the Labour Party chooses to support this law and thereby increase debts, then there will be an additional task for the municipalities. They have to clean up the debts, while the Secretary of State for Social Affairs has said that we must prevent people from getting into debt. How does the Labour Party reconcile this bill with this statement by the Labour Secretary's Party? And how is she going to ensure that the additional costs are met?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u109	Again, there is a rather simple way of preventing those debts from being made. It's been said before. If people make a choice that is detrimental to themselves, their environment, as well as to the State, then it is too fair to look at a way in which some of the costs incurred can be recovered. I share Mrs Kooiman's view that additional debts may increase the risk of recidivism and reduce socialisation. That is why I asked my questions to the two directors. On the other hand, I do not think it should be a reason to say in advance: where there is not even a direct relationship, we do not. Once again, it is important that customisation takes place here, where a contribution of its own can be paid. Maybe it is also good to point out that the figures show that a large part will build up a much smaller amount than the maximum debt. That's what we're seeing here tonight. This amount is also not to be charged for any debt cancellations through the municipalities. In principle, this can be achieved with the six deadlines.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u110	For starters, I'd rather we put in a lot more financial detectives, so we can actually pick crooks. If we ask welfare recipients for their own contribution with this law, 55% of them have a welfare allowance, it's a pocket pocket story. If you also place an extra burden on municipalities by letting them do the debt relief, what will this law do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u111	Some of the ex-convicts will have to pay a social security allowance after the detention. Much of it doesn't have to. Where there is sufficient income, the collection of the own contribution according to capital is real. Part of it won't be able to do that either. There are several possibilities for this: the possibility of delay, payment in instalments and possible remission. These are all nuances that have been applied and which the Labour Party thinks will not contribute to the picking of bare chickens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u112	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u113	It is a good thing that the directors in the letter of amendment have given effect to the personal collection strategy. The Labour Party considers the chosen effect of the collection to be reasonable. The standard payment offered in six instalments is, as far as we are concerned, real. We are satisfied with the proposed possibility of being eligible for an individual payment scheme and the possibility of postponing payment. This also leads to a reduction in recovery costs. We would like to hear from the directors how they are going to monitor that personal collection strategy and how they will inform the Chamber accordingly. The directors also indicate that the personal collection strategy may eventually increase the collection rate. However, the period for which the amounts can be booked increases with this personalised collection strategy. I would like to hear the budgetary implications of this from both heads of government. My party is particularly concerned about the group of systematic repeaters and the clients of Stichting Verslavingsreclassering GGZ. Those are groups with a combination of problems. Thus, in addition to the two years of detention they have, the prisoners who will be included in the ISD measure in particular have a maximum debt. On the contrary, the isd measure is aimed at preventing social unrest and increasing the opportunities of this complex and problematic group. A maximum debt, as agreed with the two-year period, will not help them in particular. Here, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, the adage that you cannot pick from a bare chicken is true. If you can count on the fact that your own contribution to this group will not be collected, isn't it better not to burden them with that, also in the context of the resocialisation process of this group? After all, it doesn't exactly contribute to their rehabilitation. Once you get rid of your addiction and are clean again, one of the objectives of the isd-measure, you know that you get an account from the CAK. I would like to receive a response from the rulers. The addiction rehabilitation also states that its clients are often not eligible for debt relief. Even though the Municipal Debt Assistance Act is based on broad accessibility and has no compelling grounds for exclusion, the signal that this group is difficult to admit must be taken seriously. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. As far as I am concerned, he indicates vaguely that he will consult the municipalities and all the parties involved. We would like to know how this is worked out. We would also like to see a minimum set of appointments. I would also like to know from the Secretary of State whether he does not think it would be much better for the ex-con and society to waive that measure for the group of detainees who already have no prospect of payment in advance, for example if the probation advises him to do so. In such a case you can think of a discretionary power for distressing cases, where an advisory function of the probation could be built in. I would also like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. We are pleased that the recovery has been specified and that payment arrangements can be made. We also like the waiver system, in so far as people are not burdened with debt indefinitely. After five years, the debt can be cancelled, including if it turns out that someone really cannot pay and it is not to be expected that he will be able to do so in the future. It must be avoided that there is an infinite amount of debt, and that is how it is going to be, as far as my group is concerned. Can the directors indicate how many times they think there will be a waiver? To what extent has any negative overall recovery behaviour already been taken into account by the option of forgiveness that has now been built in? I would also like the questions about possible additional taxes on municipal debt relief to be answered by the directors. Mrs Kooiman of the SP and Mr Segers of the Christian Union already indicated that there should be no negative effects on the immediate environment of the contributor, as he is mentioned. We believe that the present impact of the payment system will in any case remove the most unpleasant aspects of a possible heavier debt. But we also see the risks of a sword by Damocles hanging over a family for five years. The previous Secretary of State knows that I have made a particular effort to pay attention to the children of inmates and to the care they need. As far as I am concerned, the children of Chantal, the often cited incarcerated mother, but also of other incarcerated parents, should not suffer from the offences committed by their parents. They must receive as much support as possible and not be hindered by lack of money. I would like to ask the attention of the rulers for this. Finally. There's a lot of doubt. My party is not blind to the doubt either. The PvdA sees the challenges associated with the implementation of the two legislative changes. The adverse consequences for resocialisation and for possible safety due to increased risk of relapse are reason for my party to ask for an evaluation earlier than after the usual five years. I am thinking of a period of two or three years. I'd like to get a reaction to this. This was my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u114	It is good that Mr Schouw has shown that the PvdA is now in principle in agreement with this bill. She thinks the principle is right. There are many challenges, but of course this should not become a symbolic policy. The written contribution of the Secretary of State states that he can collect 14%. Isn't it symbolic policy if you can only collect 14%? What is the Labour Party going to do to improve this percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u115	I do not think 14% is symbolic. The idea is that the causer contributes to the costs. Again, it is a modest contribution to the high costs that society must bear for the choices made by the prisoner. The 14% are based on the old situation where there is not yet a personalised collection strategy. My party believes that it is important to monitor how that 14% is achieved. In addition, my party is aware of the fact that this personalised collection strategy could lead to a higher collection rate. I share Mr Oskam's analysis that the recovery rate should be as high as possible. We believe that the current collection possibilities, the various individual options and the standard measure to collect can contribute to this. This will potentially increase the rates of collection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u116	Of course, it's always good to have customization. But I would remind you that Mrs Kooiman said that 70% of the people going to prison are in debt of €10,000 or more. Add the bill sent by the Minister and Secretary of State. How can you make sure that people pay those bills?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u117	The Secretary of State also indicates that the way in which debt is handled will be used more precisely in detention. Again, the debts incurred for detention should not be leading in collecting their own contribution. But I share Mr Oskam's analysis that the own contribution and the debts that have arisen for detention should not be a reason to allow for the possibility of a high risk of recurrence or a reduced risk of resocialisation. Also, a large part of the ex-con does return to income after detention. We will also have to do everything we can to ensure that the income is collected after detention. Nevertheless, our own contribution to the costs incurred is not lost. It is also a principle to say: you have caused this, we are making costs and we ask you to take part in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u118	Mrs Rebel gave me something that I really can do, namely let prisoners deal with finances in detention. This requires that prisoners receive a slightly more real wage than they currently have. In my own contribution, I have made a number of proposals. I would like a response from the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u119	First of all, I would like to look further at Mrs Kooiman's proposals. On the other hand, the Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to focus on more effective work capacity. Where labour law is now leading, he wants to look at it to give more opportunities to those in prison who want to work. He also indicates that a new wage scheme is in preparation. In our view, both measures could contribute to a higher real wage, and thus to the possibility of working part of money and debt in detention. Again, these legislative changes are aimed at the post-detention period. It would therefore be good to focus on an effective policy on how an inmate deals with debts. As far as we are concerned, a more effective wage system fits in with that. I would ask the Secretary of State to explain this further. Mrs Kooiman's proposal to look at how pay and work can contribute to dealing with debt and I would like to look at money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u120	I am very sorry, then, that we are discussing a law now when the work is still to be done. I hear a lot about impact assessments and about how we can offer prisoners a wage. But why does the Labour Party not say to the Cabinet: I have a number of objections, I would like prisoners to learn how to deal with finance and why don't you come up with that before we proceed with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u121	In my view, the cabinet also comes up with proposals for dealing with debt and money in detention. So that's what's in it. However, my party is of the opinion that any higher wage is not a condition for agreeing to these legislative changes. The principle of an own contribution is therefore a guiding principle. It should not depend on any higher pay for work in detention, also because this is the post-detention period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u122	Madam President. Ministers are, by definition, pickpocketers. I would never say that, but it's a quote from former Secretary of State for Finance Ferdinand Grapperhaus. He said, "They're always trying to roll finance." By this he meant that government officials in relation to rising expenditure in various policy areas are always looking for money for spending in their field. I had to think back because tonight was also asked: do not ordinary cuts also play a role in this bill? On behalf of the SGP, my reaction to this is that instead of automatically opting for a tax increase in the case of rising expenditure, we do not think it would be wrong for us to take a critical look at whether the costs can be reduced and, if this is not possible, whether those costs can be borne more by those who caused them. It is precisely in times of austerity that I find it very obvious and justified to see whether costs can be paid by those who caused them. This principle is also the basis for these legislative proposals and also comes back to many other policy areas. Think of staying in health care institutions and accounts sent in connection with civil or administrative justice in the form of registry rights. But think also of very different matters in the field of justice. For example, if you are required to undergo an information process in the context of an adoption procedure, you will also be charged a fee at home. In short, it is not unique to look at the question now: what about the costs and can those who caused them also contribute to those costs? This is a trend that I see in the whole of public policy and not just in the field of justice. The SGP Group fully understands this. In fact, isn't it strange that it hasn't been the case in this area? I would actually like to turn it around: what is the reason why this was not the case? If it is so obvious, why not ask for a much earlier contribution in the area of justice, for example, for staying in a prison or a judicial establishment or for the cost of the criminal proceedings? That seems to me to be an obvious question. The documents also referred to the fact that the contribution to the costs of the criminal proceedings was abolished in 1896. Mr Oskam also referred to this. At State-General Digitaal we can now look at what the debate on a settlement on judicial fees in criminal matters looked like on 10 March 1896. There was little talk of the principle at the time. In fact, there were a few fewer parties to the debate on this subject than at present, but that aside. The principle was in fact not discussed at all. In summary, the reasoning was also from the cabinet: "the cost story caused an enormous, extensive and unpleasant administration." If this was the reason to abolish it more than a hundred years ago, it is of course an interesting question to what extent this enormous, extensive and unpleasant administration will not come back with these legislative proposals. I also recognized the argument of the bare chicken in the Acts. This argument has also been mentioned many times today, but the bald chicken has only really got into Parliament's debates here since the 1980s. In 1896, however, it was said something else: "In addition, I do not think it should be overlooked that in most cases court fees are still not recovered because the class of persons from which most of the accused arise is generally not much to be recovered." In my view, this is quite purely the argument of the bare chicken which has been put forward repeatedly this evening. In fact, that is also the position of the SGP Group in relation to these legislative proposals. It understands the principle, but doubts the feasibility and feasibility of its own contribution. Do we indeed get a huge, extensive and unpleasant administration back? We believe it is important to ensure that these proposals do not have a negative impact on re-socialisation. There's been a job done for that, too. I've noticed that, too. There are all kinds of exceptions, special provisions and payment arrangements, but the downside of all the efforts being made not to hinder resocialisation is that this terrible, unpleasant, extensive administration comes back to it. Do the burdens still outweigh the benefits? Also the argument of the bare chicken is still a serious point when you see how many of the group of people who end up in prison have no or little income. Many people do not have a job or benefit before they go to prison. After detention, the percentage that has work is only lower. The other speakers have already pointed this out, and the documents contain detailed arguments. The cabinet expects a collection rate of 14. That's a very low percentage. Is it not possible to achieve a higher percentage by making more effort? After all, there are many in detention who have sufficient income or wealth. The own contribution for criminal proceedings and victim care is based on a higher percentage. A percentage of 60% is used here because of the wider target group than only prisoners. Should it indeed be assumed that this will often involve people with a job or benefit? Does less revenue also cause a disadvantage to victims' contributions? Next to the expected net revenue from both proposals, EUR 65 million, of which EUR 7 million is the result of proposing an own contribution to stay in a judicial establishment. In order to obtain these amounts, a substantial investment is needed. In the documents we saw an amount of about 5 million for the cost of implementing both legislative proposals. How real is that $5 million? Given the low rate of collection and the frequently necessary payment arrangements, does it make sense to expect that it will remain with these costs? The prisoners bear part of the costs themselves. On the basis of the amount of €16, we can conclude that this is a very limited own contribution. I would like to have a more detailed explanation of that amount. Is that amount now determined by the money estimated in the coalition agreement? I think it is a rather weak argument for the final amount. The fact that, in the context of austerity, you are also considering the possibility of a contribution of your own is agreed in principle, but when determining the amount you would also expect to look more closely at what is generally a real contribution and less at the gap that needs to be filled exactly. I leave a number of other comments aside, because I notice that many of the concerns mentioned in the Chamber are widely shared by all kinds of groups. These concerns relate to feasibility and feasibility. My group is open in this. Let us have a good debate on this. I look forward to replying to the cabinet. At least it can sleep on it for another night.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u123	Thank you, Mr Van der Staaij, for taking us back into history.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u124	This has put an end to the first term of office. At a time to be specified, both directors will respond to the contributions of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u125	I do need a note from the cabinet to get an indication when the answer can be given. That is in connection with the preparation of possible amendments, because there is a great need for them. That note doesn't have to be there tomorrow, as long as there's a note, so I don't get mugged by the first-term reply from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-07-tweedekamer-29.u126	We will let you know as soon as possible, either by letter or via the Registry.
