ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about strengthening the position of authors in copyright. For the VVD it is important that work should pay. Work has to pay for everyone, including creators. Those cultural entrepreneurs want and must be able to defend their interests. They must be able to just make money from their work. I wish every writer, actor, artist or other creator a good or even excellent income if their work is worth it. A modern copyright is there for the protection of creative performance with its own, original character and a personal stamp of the creator. This is contrary to classical copyright, which was not entirely accidentally referred to by the word "copyright." This right was primarily for the protection against competition from the investment of printers and publishers. That classic copyright was therefore not in balance. This debate, too, is about balancing the interests of creators on the one hand, and the interests of operators on the other. They are unequal parties who have been condemned to one another. Against this background, the VVD is convinced that creators and operators with good will should be able to come out together. This is also apparent from the agreement between PAM and RODAP announced yesterday around the difficult point of video on demand. According to the VVD Group, the agreement illustrates that it is not always up to the legislator to come up with solutions, but that parties can come out together without detailed legislation. Nevertheless, there is a need for a broad legal framework within which the parties covered by this law will have to find each other. The often individual creator depends to a large extent on the efforts of an operator for the successful exploitation of his work. This operator, in turn, is often a professionally organised company for which the conclusion of agreements is daily practice and which has ample financial resources for legal support. The VVD has received positive sounds from both operators and creators about this bill. This suggests that the government has succeeded in achieving a broad framework. However, in view of the various interests and complexity of this law, the VVD is in favour of evaluating, for example, after three or four years, how the present law works out in practice for all stakeholders. I see some concerns for this evaluation. First of all, to what extent can we in practice get rid of both the scope and the definitions of the present law? Secondly, to what extent has the law strengthened the position of authors vis-à-vis producers, CBOs and operators in general? How can the Secretary of State provide for such an evaluation? I would also like to highlight the importance of my colleague Joost Taverne's amendment on open access. The Taverne amendment states that the author has the right to make his scientific manuscript financed by public Dutch funds available free of charge via the Internet in open access after a reasonable period of time. Results of fully or partially publicly funded research should be freely available if the author so wishes. So the ball is with the author. His position is strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u3	Open access, of course, appeals to my group very much. I do have a small question about this. In this context, my colleague from the VVD speaks of a'reasonable period', but its length is zero here. The payback period would then be zero months. That does not sound to me as a reasonable period of time. How does my VVD colleague see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u4	By a reasonable period of time, we mean a period to be agreed between the parties. We give the author the right to agree that period with the operator. It can vary. We certainly do not want that deadline to be set at zero. We just want to say that if the parties say together that it may appear on the Internet immediately after publication, if the author has the right to share his manuscript publicly with third parties, then they can agree and that is agreed with that. However, they can also agree on something else. It is more a question of emphasising the possibility of variation with that phrase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u5	Finally, Mrs Oosenbrug.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u6	I understand that possibility of variation, but wouldn't it be wiser to remove that reasonable period of time from the phrase of zero? Zero doesn't strike me as a reasonable earning period for the publisher. Those publications are very important. We all do. However, it must be possible to reach a reasonable deadline. If you say "zero" in this piece, I think that's a difficult negotiating position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u7	It's a purely theoretical example, and that's all. Only in the event that both parties say that they agree that something should appear immediately after publication, a reasonable period of time is zero. With this clarification I hope to show that it is a purely theoretical example. It's pure theory, and that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u9	Finally, I would like to talk about open access and why this amendment has been tabled. Open access promotes the exchange of knowledge. This contributes to the innovative capacity of the Netherlands. In order to enable the publisher to recoup his investments, this is only allowed after the reasonable period that has just been discussed, which starts after first publication. Parties must decide together what is reasonable. This may vary according to scientific discipline, as the explanatory statement of the amendment states. The amendment fits in well with the strong educational vision of Secretary of State Dekker, who wants to regulate open access through the Higher Education and Scientific Research Act. In the view of the VVD, this amendment contributes to the Netherlands as a knowledge country and to the promotion of an innovation-oriented economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u10	The VVD colleague discusses the deal that was concluded yesterday between two organisations. He talks about the VVD's "open access amendment." Furthermore, he has not raised so many issues, while this law is about much more. I would therefore like to ask at least one question about it. What does the VVD think of the fact that in the film article, for example, this law is limited to only the screenwriters, the lead director and through neighbouring law also to the leading players, but that all other contributors to a film artwork are not covered by this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u11	In itself, that is a legitimate question from D66. I said that is a good point to include in the evaluation. The definitions and scope of this law must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u12	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u13	I understand that, but Mr Van Wijngaarden mentioned an evaluation in three or four years' time. At that time, a lot of contracts are going to be concluded. As a legislator, there's something you can do now. Why has the VVD Group not said anything about this point at all? Indeed, Mr Van Wijngaarden has taken the word 'expansion' in his mouth, but he has not said anything else about this moment. We're dealing with that law right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u14	I'm talking about my own words. I have made it very clear that I want to see the scope included in the evaluation. I have also pointed out that there has been a largely very positive response from stakeholders. In that sense, I have raised this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u15	Mr. Chairman. The aim of the legislative proposal we are discussing today is to strengthen the contractual position of authors and performers vis-à-vis the operators of their works. The legislative proposal therefore provides a framework within which agreements can be made tailor-made. The underlying idea is that tailor-made work for the different sectors should come from the parties concerned. They are referred to as market players. That sounds good, of course, but before I started the text of the bill, I first reviewed the text of the Copyright Act and the Related Rights Act. If you let all the concepts be reviewed, it's starting to dull you like a layman. Let me highlight a few. According to Article 1 of the Copyright Act, copyright is "the exclusive right of the author of a work of literature, science or art, or of his successors, to make it public and to reproduce it, subject to the limitations, laid down by law." And it says: "Keeping evidence of the contrary shall be held for the creator who is designated as such on or in the work, or in the absence of such an indication, who is made known by him who makes it public when the work is made public." That doesn't make it much clearer. Then I looked at Article 1 of the Act on Related Rights. In it the following definition is given of performing artist: "the performer, singer, musician, dancer and any other person performing, singing, or performing in any other way, a work of literature, science or art or an expression of folklore, as well as the artist performing a variety or circus number or a puppet game." Creators and performers are in ordinary Dutch those who are engaged in writing, making music, making art, dancing or doing science. They do not deal with the legal hair-clubbing in the laws that have just been cited. They've got better things to do. All these concepts and provisions in these laws gave me the feeling that the trees no longer see the forest. You can compare it a bit with the situation of the benevolent citizen who fills out the necessary tax returns once a year. He's not a party to the Tax Administration with all his expertise. Today's key question is therefore whether the contractual position of these people is actually strengthened in practice with respect to the operators of their works, who are professionally engaged in doing so. Important changes are proposed in the legislative proposal. Firstly, in addition to being able to transfer the right to publish or to reproduce a work, it is made possible to grant a licence to do so. The granting of a licence must be by deed. Only the powers specified in the Act shall be delegated. In principle, therefore, future powers are not. Secondly, there will be a new chapter in the Copyright Act which regulates the so-called exploitation agreement. This Chapter provides, inter alia, that the creator may claim a fair remuneration from his other party for the granting of that operating power. The creator is entitled to an additional fee if the previously agreed fee is seriously disproportionate in relation to the proceeds of exploitation, the so-called bestseller provision. The creator may also terminate the agreement if the operator fails to operate the work sufficiently. That's what we call the non-usus rule. There will also be a Disputes Commission that can solve problems between creators and operators. Associations of creators may also refer disputes to that Disputes Commission, which is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. These provisions have been applied mutatis mutandis to the Act on Related Rights. So they also apply to performers, or actors, singers, musicians, dancers and so on. Although the PVV broadly agrees with the proposed legislative changes, I have a number of questions and comments. Before mentioning a number of issues which my group believes deserve attention, I am the first to ask the following question. Why is the creation of the Committee on Disputes included in the legislative proposal left to the market, as the purpose of the bill is to improve the protection of creators against professional counterparties, especially given the remark in the explanatory memorandum that creators are afraid to get their rights because of (too) high costs of judicial proceedings? This has been a reason for the government to establish a basis for a dispute settlement committee. But then why isn't they going through with it? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this point. My group still has questions on the following issues. Firstly, creators' organisations have been advocating a so-called "use it or lose it" clause for years. Such a provision aims to enable creators to recover their rights if there is no or insufficient exploitation. For music authors, this has now been settled through various court cases, but that is case law and not legislation. Is the so-called non-usus rule, as proposed in the new Article 25th Copyright Act, to be regarded as the desired "use it or lose it" clause? In my group's view, it is not for the following reason. The proposed non-ususus rule requires the operator to operate. If he fails to do so or fails to do so, the creator may encourage the operator to continue to operate or return the operating right to him, so that the creator can transfer that right back to another operator. So the initiative is here with the maker. The maker must monitor whether exploitation is being carried out and, more importantly, the maker must also take action if the operation is insufficient or even absent. In a "use it or lose it" clause, it appears that the right to operate is void and automatically belongs to the creator. So the question to the Secretary of State is whether this is true. If so, why has it not been incorporated into the law in this way? Secondly, the new rules of the operating agreement apply only to the contractual relationship between the creator and the operator acting as intermediary in making the work available to the public. Rules do not therefore apply to contracts with end-users, such as the user of iTunes software and the website. Contract contracts, for example on the design of a logo or a corporate identity, shall not be subject to that operating agreement. On page 21, the explanatory memorandum describes the so-called kickback scheme. That provision states that a term under which a maker is obliged to pay back, in part, creators' fees received from a collective rights organisation to the client is unreasonablely burdensome. Aren't these two things contradictory? Thirdly, on page 13 of the explanatory statement, it can be read that the Minister of OCW can determine the amount of fair remuneration due to the creator when granting the operating power. The establishment of a fair remuneration should be carried out in such a way as to serve certain interests, such as the preservation of cultural diversity, access to culture, an objective of social policy or consumer interest. However, the Ministry of OCW or the government may also be the client. So if there is not the danger of conflict of interest in such a situation, let me call it a double-hat situation. Fourthly, in the section with special provisions for film works, the current Article 45d of the Copyright Act provides that the authors are to be deemed to have transferred to the producer the right to publish, reproduce, add subtitles from the moment of completion, or as soon as the filmwork is ready for screening, and to synchronize the texts thereof. The bill adds: renting out the filmwork or otherwise making it public. Does this mean that the creators are also supposed to have transferred those rights at those two moments? If so, isn't that a weakening rather than a strengthening of their position? The amended article 45d of the Copyright Act also provides for a proportional remuneration for a number of creators, including actors, directors and screenwriters in the case of broadcasting and cable transmission of films and television programmes. Following the letter of amendment, key actors are also excluded from the presumption of transfer and are entitled to fair remuneration. In the meantime, the letter of amendment also provides that this fee is also payable in the situation of video on demand. Nevertheless, I still have the question as to whether this proposed Article 45d of the Copyright Act is future-proof and thus also strengthens the position of the creators mentioned in that article. In the explanatory memorandum, it is not in vain that the role of operators under the influence of technological developments is constantly changing. New media, such as the Internet, will bring new operators along with new operating opportunities. That's what the Secretary of State himself writes, so I'd like to hear his response to that question. Then I have a very small point. The text on the Ministry's website, dated 9 February last, states that the creators are entitled to a "proportionally fair remuneration." But the bill just says "fair compensation." Is there not a limitation by adding "proportional"? Finally, it is remarkable that the government has not launched a specific examination of the economic impact of the proposed amendments. It is precisely because this is a major change in copyright that my group sees as remarkable. Will books, works of art, films and so on become more expensive for citizens? For my group, measuring is knowing. I would therefore like to hear an answer to that. I'll come to a conclusion. So there are questions about the whole of it, but the legislative proposal is a step in the right direction. The PVV Group is therefore in favour of it, but it awaits its response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u16	Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Helder quite rightly said, this is indeed a very important legislative proposal. It's also quite a complicated bill. It's nice that we can finally deal with it today. The bill has been on hand for quite a long time. There has, of course, been an extensive consultation. In recent weeks, the Court has also consciously waited for the ongoing negotiations between the parties of the final operators, united in RODAP, and the makers, united in PAM. However, it was worth the delay, so we could read yesterday. However, it is a good thing that this bill is being discussed today, so that it can become a reality as soon as possible. Indeed, this bill will strengthen the position of creative makers vis-à-vis those of film producers and end-users, but also broadcasters, for example. That's good. This is indeed done by inserting in the legislative proposal an additional chapter called "operation of contract law." Mrs Helder mentioned this in the fine summary she gave of this bill. I thank her for that. On this basis, creators shall be entitled to a fair remuneration and may be entitled to an additional fair remuneration for the granting of the operating power. In doing so, the exclusive licence shall be treated as a transfer of copyright. This is the same in the economy, but that is also the case in this legislative proposal. This bill is urgently needed. There are unequal relationships between smaller, self-employed, creative and on the other hand professionally organized companies which are an exponent of the music or film industry, while actors, authors and all other people who contribute to the art, who make or shape art, are often dependent on themselves. This proposal protects those self-employed makers from, for example, strangulation contracts and provides them with a fair remuneration for their work. That's what it's all about in the end. That is certainly a step in the right direction. Despite the broad satisfaction that may have been expressed in the consultation, we have taken note of this with great pleasure and reassurance. My group certainly sees a number of points that can be improved. I'm just gonna say that specifically. This brings me to a dilemma that I encountered during the discussion of this bill. If we deal with a legislative proposal in the Chamber, we, as co-legislator, have the instrument of amendment. We can help rewrite the law to make him better. If we do that with a majority of votes, the law will change directly because of what the Chamber has devised. It is used to present the amendments, the proposals for legislative change, prior to the debate with the ruler. In this way, the ruler, in this case the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, can give an opinion or advice on the amendment. On that basis, the Chamber can in turn determine its voting behaviour. Now, as Mrs Helder has already made very clear, this law has not only been complicated but has also been extremely active in the copyright polder, as I would like to mention. And there's not much wrong with that. I am used to it too, because I also have living and economic affairs in my portfolio, and there we also know a housing polder and an industry organisation polder, but in this case it goes beyond just a lobby where every Member of Parliament can take note of things and then just have to make his decision. A covenant was concluded yesterday between two parties and the possible submission of proposals by me as a Member of Parliament could jeopardise that deal. In other words, if I am now proposing an amendment, this means that I might cause problems to the parties that have made a deal, which I very much welcome, while, as a representative of the people, I think that my proposal would be an improvement in the law. That dilemma has led me to prepare a number of amendments but not yet to submit them. I will ask questions about it to the Secretary of State, but if I do not think that the questions are adequately answered, I will ask for a third deadline in order to create the possibility of getting the response of the Secretary of State and not just getting it in writing. I hope that colleagues will be able to agree with that. I'm just going to announce it. I would like to mention a number of points relating to the legislative proposal and the possible improvements. This concerns first of all the scope. In his somewhat brief contribution, Mr Van Wijngaarden also spoke about it. There are three types of agreements that are not covered by the protection provided for by this bill. First of all, these are agreements where exploitation is not the main objective, i.e. all kinds of agreements which do affect exploitation but do not have the main objective. Can the Secretary of State indicate if photos placed on Facebook and other social media are included? If that is the case, the extension of the scope, which is currently not regulated, could protect users from misuse of their photos in advertisements on Facebook. I'd like to get a reaction to this. We are thinking of an amendment on this point. I come to the agreements, the second category to which the Benelux Treaty on intellectual property applies. For example, if a model is designed to order, the client is the orderr and not the designer himself. In the event of an unfair relationship between the client and the designer, this could lead to problems and the extension of the law would give the designer more protection. Can the Secretary of State explain again why this group is excluded? I come to the third category, the fictional creators. The law is limited to natural persons. This excludes companies, including small businesses such as sole proprietorships, from legal protection, while small one-man companies could benefit from additional protection under this law, as they are less strong than larger professional organisations. Question has made it clear that there would be a reflex effect that, if there is any doubt, the judge will ultimately rule on the basis of this law. However, I am asking the Secretary of State why the fictional creators, small businesses, cannot be covered by this law. In this law, the film article, Article 45d, has a key role to play. This confirms once again that there is no change to the so important presumption of transfer. This means that, unless otherwise stated in writing, the creators are deemed to have transferred the right to operate to an other party, who may use it to operate or produce it. Fair remuneration, which is now legally confirmed, is regulated by compulsory collective management, at least in the linear part, except for the non-linear part. Yesterday, two organisations made a good deal of agreement on this through voluntary collective management. That is fine in itself, but with the letter of amendment of July 2014, a change has been made, so that only the screenwriters, directors and the main players through neighbouring law are given proportionate fair remuneration, and the rest are not. In doing so, the Secretary of State seems to forget that there are not only feature films, but also documentaries and animated films, and that a beautiful side role or a second writership can also be an important contribution to a production. I'm not even talking about all kinds of future forms. The PVV also pointed out: how future-proof is this law? Why is this change and, second of all, containment coming? My group has an amendment in place on this point. However, we are not yet submitting this. The story seems to be that the deal between the makers and the operators, PAM (Portal Audiovisual Makers) and RODAP (Rights Consultation for Distribution of Audiovisual Productions), will be put under pressure again if there is a broadening. We do not want this on our consciences, but we do not want it to take us hostage. So I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the possible consequences of such an amendment to the deal that was concluded yesterday, on which the Secretary of State said yesterday in the media that he is so happy with it. Would this broadening mean that CBOs other than NORMA, VEVAM and Lira will also appear, for example the CBO Pictoright? I'd like to get a reaction to this. I am pleased to see that the Secretary of State Mr D66 has discussed this more often in the letter of amendment for the film article, and has looked carefully at previous D66 proposals on the radio model. Although he is not proposing an actual radio model, I know that he is getting as close to that model as possible within the existing directives. It proposes a system of compulsory collective management which reduces transaction costs for the payment of rights fees. In addition, this system enables small rightholders to collectively negotiate a fair remuneration. Unfortunately, we have talked about this in general consultation about two or three months ago, and we cannot fully introduce the radio model, because the licensing issue is not regulated at European level. There are no more total repertoire licences because there is no longer a monopoly for the CBOs online. That has to be solved in Europe. I won't be complaining about that right now. However, in the area of the film article, of the audiovisual part, you could speak of a radio model light. As a positive person, I can only see that for a moment. In addition, the Secretary of State may have been inspired by the Spanish law, which includes a similar system. However, the fair remuneration and the right to it are regulated not only for audiovisual producers as proposed here but also for audio works, i.e. for music. For the exploitation of audiovisual works, as well as for audio exploitation, Spotify is collected collectively in Spain, for example. I would like to point out that there is often a discussion on the distribution of Spotify and the way in which it is paid out. Thomas Acda and Henk Westbroek but also Taylor Swift and Radiohead have complained about this in the past. In addition, the Secretary of State has previously indicated that the category of music is best suited to the radio model. Then why does he come up with a kind of radio model light for the audiovisual part, when he doesn't regulate anything in this law for the audio part, for which it's actually more suitable? I'd like to get a reaction to this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to consider this in the future? I would just like to comment on the practice of collective management organisations. It is clear that D66 is in favour of the idea of collective management, independently of the online restrictions, because it reduces transaction costs and increases the amount of money to the creators. They have an organization behind them that can ensure that they get their earned money. That is why this bill, which protects the position of creators, also chooses to do so through collective management organisations, through compulsory collective management. In itself, that's a logical choice. However, the practice is unbearable, because collective management organisations are still not organisations that everyone is talking about in a very positive and praiseworthy way. This is the case with each organisation; some are also more than 100 years old. Of course, they do a lot of good things, but it is still said that they are not always transparent about the formation of tariffs and their creation. This applies both to the producers in terms of the levels of benefits and to the claims made, for example towards producer organisations. Secondly, the question is whether the contracts used by the CBOs for the transfer of rights are always beneficial to the creators. That is why, years ago, D66 raised the question of whether we should also protect the creators and artists from collective management organisations. We have previously proposed that the supervision of collective management organisations should be transferred to the Authority for Consumer & Market. I would like to say that this proposal has just failed. We are, of course, still looking for ways of strengthening that surveillance. That's what D66 sees fit to do. There are four ways to improve the position of creators vis-à-vis collective management organisations. This can be done first of all by more rigorous supervision, which I have just spoken about, and secondly by increased competition between collective management organisations, which can only be regulated at European level, and in the third place by greater freedom of choice, for example, on the basis of the "video on demand" part, which is subject to voluntary collective management, and in the fourth place by better bundling through the one-stop-shop idea, which has also been discussed for a long time. The last three cases are in one way or another, but they do not always lead to anything. I believe that we should therefore mainly refer to the Supervisory Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2013. On this basis, the supervision of the CBOs has been widened. The new law should lead to greater transparency in the activities of CBOs so that they can be better monitored. For example, the Supervisory Board should agree to a unilateral increase in tariffs, the licensing conditions, discount arrangements, management costs and ancillary functions of directors should be made public and it should be possible to set limits on the management costs of CBOs. Top salaries are dealt with and the college may also impose a penalty charge or administrative penalty. Yet there are still negative signals. Is the Secretary of State therefore prepared to review the supervisory act quickly? In doing so, I would like to aim at the time when the European Collective Rights Management Directive needs to be implemented, namely 10 April 2016. Is he willing to evaluate the Surveillance Act before then? Finally, I have three comments to make. The types of exploitation and the developments in it are moving very quickly. The VVD spoke of an evaluation of this law after three to four years. Is the Secretary of State prepared to review the law in two years' time? I am also asking this question in the context of D66's request to modernise laws and not to adopt laws that are rapidly ageing. Due to the advanced technology, the latter is a serious scenario. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actively ensure that the Disputes Committee is accessible? How's he gonna do that? Finally, I would like to comment on the non-ususus clause. There are concerns among authors whether the case law built up by lawsuits is crossed by aspects of the law that would be less protective than the case law. Can the Secretary of State take care of those concerns? This brings me to the end of my input. I see I've passed ten seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u17	I see it, too. We have purchased a special screen for you, to show exactly how many seconds you have left. It was neat in time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u18	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is pleased that, after many negotiations and adjustments, there is now a bill in front of us that gives writers, composers and performers a stronger legal position to apply for fair compensation for their released work. The PvdA believes that the position of creators is finally improved by the coming of this law. Small entrepreneurs in the cultural world, who try to live off their creations, are thus given more certainty and a better negotiating position towards the operators. My group is convinced that their voice can now be heard better and that this law offers them plenty of opportunities for a healthy future as creative entrepreneurs. The imbalance of power between the large and small negotiating parties is also present in this sector. The difficult process which preceded this plenary debate has shown that there is a great imbalance of power. The PvdA believes that it should be reduced. My group wants the Secretary of State's guarantee that this new law does not undermine the protection of authors and artists on the basis of existing legislation. An unintentional weakening of the legal position of the maker should be avoided. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. In the difficult process of submitting to the Chamber, a number of provisions have been lost, or become less ambitious. Filmmakers, for example, were very disappointed with Article 45 (1) of the Treaty. Until yesterday, compensation was negotiated, but eventually white smoke appeared and an agreement was signed that the creators are satisfied with. It is now important that many creators can do what they are good at making films, and that they can also earn enough money from their creative achievements. The aim of this article, which is to reduce inequality in the negotiating position, is paramount for my group. For the creators, there are still some points that need to be improved. In Article 25, the bill excludes a large group of creators and contracts to the detriment of protection. It concerns 1. agreements which do not have the main purpose of operation, 2. agreements in which Article 3.28 of the Benelux Convention on intellectual property applies and 3. fictitious creators. This last point means that companies in which multiple makers work are excluded. The Labour Party wants to support small entrepreneurs. In the creative sector, this is no different. How will the Secretary of State resolve these shortcomings? Is he going to do this together with the Minister of Economic Affairs in order to provide better protection for small and creative enterprises in particular under this law? Finally, I have a few brief questions. The bill states that the Minister of OCW can set the tariffs negotiated between the organisations of makers and products. In this way, it has become a complex arrangement. Would it not have been simpler and clearer to follow Germany's example and include a right of notification in the law? Can the Secretary of State explain why he didn't do this in the end? Or can the Secretary of State evaluate the impact in two or three years' time and involve the German model in this? Can the same evaluation also look at right holders and fees related to the film article? It is left to the market to create a low-threshold dispute commission on copyright contract law. The imbalance of power between the parties must also be closely monitored here. It should not be the case that the stronger party of power, which may be less interested in such a committee, then shows less enthusiasm for setting up the committee. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure a smooth running of things? What possible leverage does he have? With regard to the non-ususus clause in music, can the Secretary of State align the law with Article 9a of the Act on Related Rights, which already stipulates that if a producer no longer operates after 50 years, the producer rights will be transferred to the performer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u19	The Labour Party is right to ask what is going on with the Disputes Committee. It may well be that a superior party has no desire to harness it properly. What is the answer of the PvdA itself to that? Shouldn't the Secretary of State be very strict about ensuring that this is done properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u20	I think that Mr Van Dijk's question contains the answer. We ask the Secretary of State how he is going to ensure that there is enough pressure so that this does happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u21	There's still some room in that answer. Does Mrs Oosenbrug agree with me that the Secretary of State should simply take the opportunity to appoint such a committee? It's in the law. Shouldn't we just order the Secretary of State to take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u22	In view of the negotiations that have so far taken place between the parties, I would like to assume that the parties themselves will come forward. If they do not come out, we must be able to put pressure on them. That is the question I asked the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u23	The PvdA also fell over the negotiations that took place between the parties in the market. It is true that these negotiations have been partly motivated and accelerated by the fact that there has been political pressure through a law. Mrs Oosenbrug has a fairly short contribution to make on this law. Is it not important that we treat this law very carefully and that we clearly state what we are doing if we are not satisfied with parts of this law? I didn't see any amendment or motion, just a few questions. What will the PvdA do if there is no satisfactory response and we are going to vote on this law next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u24	Let me say first of all that the longest contribution is not always the best. The length of a contribution does not say anything about the content of that contribution. Having said that, I am in a debate with the Chamber and the Secretary of State. I always use the first term myself to ask questions and get a clear answer. If I am not satisfied with that, I will come up with my next comments. I do not have any amendments to the law because my group is satisfied with it. I have put additional questions to the Secretary of State. I'd like to get an answer to that and then we'll move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u25	Fine. As far as the scope is concerned, Mrs Oosenbrug mentioned the same three types of agreements not covered by this law. What's she gonna do when the Secretary of State explains why he's not gonna do that? Is she actually going to take action from the PvdA or is she going to let it go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u26	I'm gonna listen to the Secretary of State's answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u27	I have heard Mr Oosenbrug say that the PvdA is satisfied with the law as it stands. Although a basis has been created for the Disputes Committee, it is not mandatory. Mr Oosenbrug says that the parties themselves have emerged, but the report clearly shows that the makers are not satisfied at all and that they have a weaker position. With the bill, people want to give their hands and feet to this. You can argue whether this is the case with the bill. We are positive about it, but the fact remains that the weaker parties, the creators, have to enforce it. The purpose of the Disputes Committee is precisely to have a lower threshold. If, in the end, the Disputes Committee is not there, what have they achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u28	I mean, isn't this supposed to be a dispute committee? My question to the Secretary of State is exactly what happens when the stronger party says she doesn't think it's necessary. So what are we gonna do? If the Secretary of State replies that he is not going to do anything about it, we will have to think of something else. But it's only the first term. I have asked this question and I have shown in my contribution how important I think it is that smaller-vote parties can also act against larger-vote parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u29	That's a hopeful answer. I await the reaction of the PvdA Group in the second term, after the Secretary of State has replied, because as far as my group is concerned, this dispute committee needs to be established and this legislative proposal is a bit half-hearted. If you want such a dispute committee to be set up, just set it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u30	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u31	Mr. Chairman. The creative sector is of great value to the Netherlands, not only economically but also socially. That is why we welcome the intention of this bill. The law must strengthen the position of creators. The law leads to a fairer relationship between creators and operators, such as publishers and cable companies. The weak negotiating position of creators is strengthened. For example, it was too crazy for words that cable companies for over two years did not pay compensation to filmmakers: reason enough to make a law that regulates fair remuneration. We have to make sure the law gets teeth. It shouldn't be an empty shell. The Chamber has received a petition from the Platform Makers for a reason, entitled "You don't want to break people who make them." The platform has also made a booklet "Makers to the Word." Does the Secretary of State know this book? When he reads the quotes in this, he becomes clear in one fell swoop how distressing the situation is. No one dares to talk about tariffs or rights, there is no negotiation possible, it rarely manages to keep my copyright: the statements speak for themselves. I recommend it to him. What does the Secretary of State think of the proposals of the Platform Makers? Let's start with the Disputes Committee. In principle, that is a good idea, because it prevents unnecessary litigation. However, the law is rather vague about this. Creation and funding are left to the market, so you run the risk of not having that committee. Is that right? Is the Secretary of State prepared to appoint a Disputes Committee? The law allows collectives to negotiate tariffs and royalty rates jointly. That is good, but there is no incentive for the strongest party to actually reach an agreement. How does the Secretary of State view this? Moreover, it is rather complicated for associations to make joint agreements. Will the Secretary of State quickly fix a rate following a request from those concerned? The next point concerns the so-called fictitious creators, companies that have copyright instead of individuals. We are not afraid that large multinationals or publishers will not get their rights, but what about small companies, such as design offices of three artists or a band that creates a vof? How is the Secretary of State going to arrange for all these companies to get their rights if some of them have a position that does not go much further than that of individual makers? I also agree with colleagues who asked questions about the groups outside the scope of the law, for example those who do not have exploitation as their main objective. Under the law, chief director, scriptwriter and leading actor can claim compensation. It may be necessary to define who will receive compensation, but why are these three groups selected specifically? What about artists or actors who play a big side role? In an earlier version of the law, the group was more broadly defined and concerned the essence of the artist's contribution to a film. Why doesn't one hold on to that? Now a group of people is excluded from a fee. A covenant has been drawn up for the on-demand services. We'll wait and see, but the covenant looks good. It is precisely in a sector where the balance of power has always been so unequal that such a covenant is important. I would like to draw attention to the late payment of the cable operators. The change in the law is a major improvement. The amendment improves the rights of creators. Their dominant position vis-à-vis sometimes powerful customers is strengthened. However, the law can be sharper. That is why I ask the Secretary of State what he will do if the rights of creators are compromised. If he stands for creators I have no doubt he should accept my proposals. We would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u32	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u33	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their contribution to this very complicated legislative proposal. It's really complicated. You can be a lawyer, but if you have to study intellectual property, it's a lot of work. There are very few legislative proposals that I look at on a Sunday and then decide on Tuesday evening to look at them again because I don't quite get it yet. This is one of those laws. That's what makes it really hard. I am glad that we can deal with this bill. We are doing this in terms of spokesmen almost in the same composition as the bill on the reporting obligation of data leaks last week. That bill was accepted by the Chamber this afternoon with a voting ratio of 150 to 0. This gives hope that this law can also be properly treated, after which it has the support of almost all or of all groups. I will try to give the answers as clearly as possible. It'll take a while. It's really hard sometimes. Among other things, the legislative proposal will improve the negotiating position of the creators of a work in relation to the operator. That, anyway. The question is whether this applies to all makers and all parts. We shall have that discussion. The maker takes part in the total of the proceeds from the exploitation of his or her creative performance. I proposed a new arrangement of film author's contract law. In advance of the acceptance of the Arrangement, all parties discussed the practical implementation of the Arrangement. Yesterday, it was announced that PAM and RODAP came to an agreement. We can be proud of the fact that the proposed regulation allows for a future-proof solution. The field has really been divided on this subject for years. It is worth a compliment that we have now come out of it. The need for the law is endorsed by all political groups in the Chamber. There's no discussion about that. It has also been looked forward to an early examination of the legislative proposal. I will answer the questions on a subject-by-matter basis, but not after I have paid quite a lot of attention to a question from Mrs Oosenbrug. In the implementation of the Directive on the duration of protection, Article 9a of the Act on Related Rights provides that the rights of a producer shall be transferred to the performer when he successfully invokes the "use it or lose it" provision of the Directive. The question is why I also do not apply that provision to Article 25e of the Copyright Act. The Directive on the duration of protection has a specific "use it of loss it" regime which can only be invoked by the performer after 50 years. The Directive provides that the producer's rights shall lapse when the maker so requests. Mrs Oosenbrug has clearly seen a mistake in the implementation of the directive. It is currently stated in the Related Rights Act that the rights of the phonogram producer are transferred to the performer. That should therefore have been the expiry of the company's rights. I would like to correct this with a second letter of amendment. Article 9a of the Act is amended accordingly. Those rights will cease to exist. With this amendment, we again comply with the Directive 2011/77/EU on the duration of protection. This directive will come back to the discussion of other issues. It follows directly from this Directive that the rights of the producer lapse if the performer can successfully invoke the non-ususus scheme. I will hand over the letter of amendment to the messenger so that the piece can be distributed immediately. Next, the question is what we have done to improve the contractual position of the natural maker, the author and the performer, in relation to the operator of their works. There are, in fact, three major changes to the law; a number of Members have already spoken about this. First of all... The requirements for the granting of an exclusive licence shall be equivalent to the requirements of transfer. As Mrs Helder said, both situations are subject to the requirement of the instrument and only those powers mentioned in the instrument or resulting from the scope of the transfer or licensing are granted. This is stated in Article 2 of the Copyright Act. Second. In order to support the creator in the negotiations with the operator of the work, some seven provisions relating to the operating agreement are incorporated into the Copyright Act. This is set out in Articles 25b to 25h. These include the right to fair remuneration, the bestseller definition and the "use it or lose it" clause. I'm gonna go into this in a minute. Third. In order to ensure that the main filmmakers can share in the proceeds from the exploitation of the film work, the copyright law is amended and the remuneration for certain exploitation methods is now collected directly from the operator by the collective management organisation. This is set out in Article 45d. I shall come back to this in a moment when Mr Verhoeven's questions on the collective management organisation are being answered. Much has been asked why I, as a legislator, restrict the circle of creators. A number of members have asked for this, some of whom, for example Mr Van Dijk, have also mentioned examples, such as animated film artists and documentary makers. Article 2 of the European Directive 2011/77/EU refers to lead directors. The legislator sought membership of that provision. However, this does not mean that people are no longer entitled to fair compensation. That seems to be a misunderstanding in the Chamber. Under Article 45d, everyone, including all the creators, is entitled to fair compensation for those who are not mentioned in so many words in Article 45d (2). However, what not all creators have is entitled to, for example, a turnover-related proportional remuneration. That's an exception. So also animated film cartoons, camera people, documentaries insofar as they are not already an important creator by any other means to qualify and costume designers are entitled to a fair fee. I would also like to say in this explanation of this law that 'fair' in this respect means 'in contribution'. The bigger your share, the higher your fee. In this way, you must read the concept of "fair." There are three creators who have an additional right to a proportional fee. These are the directors, the screenwriters and the leading actors. This proportional remuneration is turnover-related. Why was these three chosen? That is why there has been no clarity for years. I think it is important that there is a clear settlement. What's it based on? We have looked at Article 2 of Directive 2011/77/EU and Article 40 of the Copyright Act. In his contribution, Mr Van Dijk asked why these makers were being blackmailed? This is why. This does not mean that creators who are not listed are not entitled to a fair remuneration, but it does mean that they are not entitled to a turnover-related proportional remuneration. But there are also exceptions to that. I'll say something about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u34	It is good that the Secretary of State clarifies that there is a difference between a fair remuneration and a proportional remuneration that is turnover-related. It is also good that the Secretary of State explains that this is based on Article 40 of the Copyright Act and Article 2 of the Directive. But he was in the old consultation. Or let me put it right, although of course the Chamber also knows the consultation text: it was in an earlier version; let me put it this way. So the Secretary of State can now explain very clearly why he is now saying 'it was not', but I would like to know why it was in an earlier version. So it has obviously been important and it has obviously been necessary to discuss it. That is why I think it is important to hear why that choice was made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u35	First of all, you can say that it did not comply with Article 2 of Directive 2011/77. So that's a legal reason. There is, of course, another reason. The other reason is that some of the creators have united in PAM. People of PAM have therefore negotiated for a long time in the past period. They didn't come out at first, but they finally got out. I've outlined that. A number of people are not members of that organisation, that "professional association'. So these people didn't talk. I have just outlined that a number of people are not entitled to a converted related proportional remuneration, unless they still fall under the main category of Article 45d (2) along the way of the'major creator'. However, a number of people are not included. So they're not in the deal right now. If you put it under an amendment now, you could end up in two situations. Mr Verhoeven asked. It could lead, first and foremost, to a complete re-execution of the negotiations. There has been no negotiation between the parties concerning these makers, who are entitled to a fair remuneration. Secondly, one could say that such an amendment would undermine the rights of other creators. You could say that the cake is not only for the people we are talking about in Article 45d, but that cake must also be for the people who so far are only entitled to fair compensation. However, I could imagine operators saying: we've talked about this for years and now we're finally out of it, so we're not going to make that cake any bigger. Looking at everything, looking at the legal story on the one hand and the actual negotiations that have been conducted on the other, I think we should actually be pleased that we have come where we are now. It would be a shame if you buried that again by doing a bit of tinkering at the back. Mr Verhoeven felt that in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u36	The Secretary of State says it straight forward, and I like it. It's about exactly this. I'm a very practical person. I have listened very carefully and heard that people are satisfied in the field. However, I am a member of the House of Representatives and therefore have my own responsibility when looking at laws. My group is generally reluctant to follow what "the polder" means, in other words, what civil society and the interest groups have come up with. There is a group of people who are not members of such organisations. They do belong to the democracy of the Netherlands. That is why I find it worrying that the Secretary of State should say: it is also true that the negotiating parties have helped to ensure that only a certain part of the group of artists is covered by this law. I will not break it open because of the principle, but frankly I think that is a worrying development. Can the Secretary of State understand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u37	Yeah, I can understand that. Nor do I belong to a political group which, by its very nature, always gives its ear to the polder. The group to which I belong does consider the polder important, but not at any time. So I recognize what Mr Verhoeven is saying. Let me try again. You record certain things in a consultation version. The subsequent consultation should then be used to discuss with the field where it leads. Such a consultation version can also, of course, address the feasibility of the legislative proposal. That's why we do such an internet consultation, and that's why we also say to professional groups: let's talk about this with all of us. Then it is important that this feasibility should also be addressed. If it turns out, also in response to reactions, that the bill does not seem to be feasible, then you must be prepared to say: we are changing that consultation version on the basis of legal arguments and arguments on feasibility. You must certainly be prepared to do so if it involves Directive 2011/77, Article 2 in conjunction with Article 40, but I have already said that three times. So it's not just a matter of: gosh, we can't get out in the polder. That would be a bit of a limited story. So this is actually about feasibility. In addition, we have the main rule on proportional, often turnover-related compensation. For example, a documentary maker is also an important maker. He often comes along the path of screenwriter of such a documentary to still fall under the main rule. I am trying to convince Mr Verhoeven in this way. If I convince him a little bit, I'll be a long way. That's my experience with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u38	Mr Verhoeven looks questionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u39	He's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u40	I'm thinking. I'm the one who's starting the process of thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u41	Very good. I'm gonna answer some specific questions. Maybe we'll come back to it. Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Verhoeven and others have asked whether the cabinet is prepared to quickly evaluate this draft law on copyright contract law. I think the thrust of the bill is that creators are better protected and share in the proceeds of exploitation. I would be happy to consider in an evaluation whether the bill achieves that objective. The agreements were, of course, made by the professions in the context of the currently proposed Article 45d, with a duration of five years. There are currently five-year contracts. I do not think it would be wise to go through those agreements between the parties with an interim evaluation. So let us make a comprehensive assessment when these agreements between the parties take place after five years. But that is without prejudice to what I have heard from the Chamber that I am prepared to share the experience of the parties with this arrangement in the middle, after two and a half years. Then I assume that this bill can be put to the vote in 14 days' time and we can discuss it in the Senate before 1 July. So on 1 January 2018 we will make a stand. As far as I am concerned, this can also relate to the scope, as Mr Verhoeven mentioned it, and to the issues raised by Mr Van Wijngaarden and others. When the law enters into force on 1 July, we can make a final assessment of this law on 1 July 2021. Mrs Helder said... I just meant 1 July 2020. I heard Mr Verhoeven whispering softly in my left ear. He's right. You will be released on July 1, 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u42	I'd get that math test if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u43	I've always had trouble with head math. That's what's causing it. Mrs Helder asked how we could ensure that a dispute committee was set up. Can this be left to the industry? I think that the law already provides an incentive and a basis for setting up that Disputes Committee. A number of Members of Parliament spoke about this. It is up to the parties to come to that Disputes Commission. They are also taking steps to this end at the moment. All the speakers, including Mr Van Dijk, have said that the best possible solution to the dispute is a simple and quick one. Then creators and operators can spend their time and money making new works instead of legal procedures. I see, with a little imagination, everyone in the stands a little noding too. I am also pleased to report that the Platform Creators and the Platform Creative Media Industry are also taking concrete steps to reach that Disputes Committee. They were almost out. People are well on their way. In my opinion, there is no need for further encouragement. My information is they're finishing up. I think you're gonna get the very best dispute settlement committee if people take care of it themselves. They almost got there, too. If we had waited two weeks for the actual treatment, I think there would have been a dispute committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u44	I think that is hopeful, especially that last remark. There's almost a dispute committee. He's not here yet. Is the Secretary of State prepared to step up the mid-term communication on 1 January 2018 if that Disputes Committee is not present?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u45	I'm willing to do that anyway, but I think that's too far away. On the entry into force of these laws, we will try to achieve this much sooner, because that is what the Chamber, I, all of us, consider important. I will make sure, through my staff from the department, from the legislation department and others who are working on it and who have good contacts with the industry, as the letter from the PAM and the RODAP also shows, that the Disputes Commission actually takes shape earlier. I have no reason to doubt that. They're just on their way. They've been able to take step one with this covenant. Step 2 must also be able to work very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u46	Then I just have the question to the Secretary of State: does he still need a vote in the form of a motion or does he think it will be all right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u47	Of course, your Chamber is free to rule on that. I see it as support in the back if that were to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u48	It is striking that Mrs Helder is asking if the Secretary of State needs an address in the Chamber. I think it's up to us. It is very good that the Secretary of State is confident that the industry itself will come out. Still, the question is, what does he do if they don't come out? Can we then assume that he himself will take the initiative, as is also provided for in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u49	We have now introduced an incentive into the law. We will then continue to encourage. If the industry does not come up with it itself, we will still have to shape it. But I also kind of agree with Mrs Helder. Her question is not entirely absurd, because it is a signal to the industry that your Chamber should say in a full majority that it really needs to be there and that it considers it important, and so the government keeps a finger on the wrist. There's nothing against that in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u50	I'll take that as a nice hint. Let me think about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u51	Mrs Helder asked whether the non-usus scheme is equivalent to the "use it or lose it" scheme. Yeah, that indicates the same arrangement. The rule in copyright law builds on the rule in general contract law. Thus, the case law under general contract law remains unchanged. Everything that is now built stays straight and we add this to it. The creator must, of course, invoke this right. "Automatically relapse to the maker" Some members of the House spoke about this. "It is practically impossible to implement." How does the maker know that's the issue? How does the operator know that something automatically falls back to the maker? In practice, this cannot be achieved. Mrs Helder also asked what the maker could do if he thought there was an unreasonable provision in the agreement with an end user. I think she mentioned the kickback clause as an example in her input. If the creator transfers his copyright or licenses it exclusively, he may rely on a provision concerning the unreasonable provisions. This also applies if there is no operating agreement. So we fall back on the normal contract law. Mrs Helder and Mr Van Dijk asked whether the Minister of OCW could establish a fair remuneration. Mrs Helder said that there might be a risk of conflict of interest there. The Minister of OCW sets the rate on the advice of the associations of operators and creators. At that point, there will be a joint opinion. There is therefore no risk of conflict of interest. Mr Van Dijk asked if I would quickly set a rate after a request from creators and operators. It is up to the Ministry of OCW to decide on the rate. It will, of course, do so carefully. Words about the duration of the assessments are really up to the colleague of Education, Culture and Science. OCW's colleague can tell us how long it will take before reaching a verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u52	The tricky thing is, there isn't one. Otherwise, I would have asked him, I believe, to ask the Secretary of State for Dekker. This Secretary of State is now saying that he will see to it. Can I assume he'll pass this on to the Ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u53	Yes, I will discuss this with the Secretary of State, although the Minister, I do not mean "her," but the Minister, of course, does so formally. I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u54	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u55	Mrs Helder asked whether the proportional remuneration is not more limited than the fair remuneration. That question was also raised. Proportional is related to the operating income, i.e. turnover-related. Fair remuneration must be fair. Moreover, in circumstances, fair remuneration could be a turnover-related remuneration. However, that really depends on the factual circumstances that the court can determine and assess. Mrs Helder has asked me whether it will not weaken the filmmaker if there are more rights under the presumption of transfer. No, because in my opinion, creators also want their work to be seen and their work exploited. The transfer of rights so that the operator can operate is also in the interest of the creator, provided that he receives a good remuneration for that. That's what this bill deals with. Mrs Oosenbrug, Mr Verhoeven and others raised the Benelux Treaty on intellectual property, in particular Article 3.28. The question was: why doesn't chapter 1a apply to the creators who design models and drawings, since they are also designers? In short, the Benelux Treaty states that the author of both copyright and design law cannot rely on copyright if he gives a third party permission to deposit a model. As a result, the third party can more easily exploit the design law in the Benelux. If we broaden the scope of the proposal to the cases of the Benelux Treaty on intellectual property, the third party's exploitation is limited. That is contrary to the purpose of the treaty. We are also bound by that treaty. This broadening also makes no sense, because in practice, for example, we are talking about a logo of a consultancy firm. The maker of that logo will be reimbursed for making the logo. If the company makes a profit because it gives good advice, then that is not the result of that logo. Although it's nice that that logo is there, because that might draw people to the company. So there's no reason to let the maker of the logo share in the profits of the consulting firm. Mr Verhoeven, Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Van Dijk asked: why is Chapter 1a not applicable to the fictional creators of Articles 7 and 8 of the Copyright Act; should there not be an arrangement for the small ones or the zzp'er with his little e.g.? Graphic makers are often legal entities. Then it could also be Shell or Philips. These big legal entities can do just fine. They do not want to restrict their freedom of contract through copyright law. Now it is not the case that all small legal entities have a bad negotiating position. There is therefore no good criterion to distinguish between small legal persons in need of protection and small legal persons who do not need protection. A legal system that tries to make that distinction is always arbitrary. It is always about the circumstances of the case, which the judge then has to examine, as I also discussed with Mrs Helder. A small legal entity in which a natural person/maker has deposited his copyrights but which otherwise does not differ from the creator who contracts in person may also invoke reflex action. Mr Verhoeven spoke about this in his speech. You can always do that. The judge is the ideal person to weigh the circumstances when assessing reflex action. If the legislator draws the line, the judge will not be given the opportunity to provide tailor-made services in this particular case. That's why you shouldn't be doing that. That is why I would like to get involved in the delivery of customized work by the judge through that reflex action. Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Oosenbrug have also referred to chapter Ia when it comes to the reuse of photos by Facebook. It depends on the main objective of each agreement. Does the creator grant the right to operate so that the third party can sell his work? That doesn't seem to be the case with Facebook photos. So the answer to both Members' questions is: no. People don't upload their photos on Facebook so Facebook can exploit them. I also note that the College is currently investigating personal data protection. I believe that Mr Verhoeven has also asked me written questions relating to this subject. In fact, I would like to await that investigation before we take a final position on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u56	Just so we're clear, I haven't asked any questions about Facebook right now. I did do that in writing. I want to bring it back to what it's like: I didn't ask questions about Facebook today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u57	I'd still have those written questions in my head. I always read the written questions put by Members. According to Mr Verhoeven, I do not always read these questions correctly, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u58	Mr Verhoeven, was that your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u59	Certainly not, Mr. Chairman. I think the written questions I asked about Facebook have even been answered yesterday, and this time on time. In 35% of cases, the Chamber does not receive an answer in time, but that aside. I'd be happy to wait for the College's personal data protection. That's what looked at it from the privacy angle. We're not talking about privacy here. We're talking about the exploitation of the story. Does the Secretary of State confirm that if Facebook is now operating on the basis of photo placement, this is not covered by this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u60	No, I didn't mean to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u61	So he confirms it won't be covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u62	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u63	And if the College judges protection of personal data, or if we come to the conclusion later that that is a hole that we would have liked to close, how do we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u64	I think it would be wise to await that judgment. If there really is a gap in the legislation, we should first leave it to the judge to resolve it with case law; that seems to me to be so sensible. The judge also takes note of what we exchanged here tonight. If that is not resolved properly, then we are in the end back to business. That is the path we must all take. Mr Verhoeven asked me why not all filmmakers are entitled to proportional remuneration. Why is there a containment? I've gone into that before, so I'm not going to repeat myself. I have already said that the case law is left intact. Mr Verhoeven and Mrs Oosenbrug asked me to do so. In a number of sectors there is already a great deal of case law based on communal contract law. Think, for example, of a non-usus in musical spending contracts. The rules laid down in Article 25e also build on the rules laid down in Community contract law. This question from the groups of D66 and the Labour Party can also be answered in the affirmative. A number of Members have asked about the costs of a Disputes Commission. How are we gonna get it to stay low-threshold? Mr Van Dijk also drew attention to this low threshold. It is well known that access to the dispute committees is charged via complaint money. Reportedly, it would be a couple of tens. That's not a huge amount of money. For example, disputes may be raised with the Disputes Committee on the amount of the licence fee for the re-use of photos or articles. Do we have to see to that? That could still be the question you have to ask yourself. We can see that it's happening, but we'll keep an eye on it. In the interim report as of 1 January 2018, we will report on this. Mr Verhoeven further asked me if I was prepared to start the monitoring review immediately after the implementation of the directive. Yes, I am willing to send a letter to the Chamber in mid-2016 on the evaluation of the 2013 Surveillance Act. That's what we were going to do, by the way. I think I promised Mr Verhoeven once, but I would be happy to do that again. Mr Verhoeven has told me his favourite subject once again. Is there a radio model for movies? In fact, we always have a debate on that. It can't be that crazy or the subject is on the agenda. Unfortunately, I have to say to Mr Verhoeven that there is no radio model in Article 45d. Not a collective management organisation, but the producer authorizes the exploitation of film works. The collective management organisations do play a role in this. They ensure that the creators are fairly rewarded for their contribution. For example, they collect a turnover-related fee from the operator. Collective management organisations therefore share, but that is what it is. Mr Verhoeven also asked me why the radio model does not work for films. What was that again? I believe this was literally his line. Film has a different exploitation model than music. You watch less movies than you listen to music. Music is also heard repeatedly, with a few exceptions that watch movies repeatedly and never listen to music, like me. However, that is only a few in society. The film producer wants to decide how a film is placed on the market. A CBO shouldn't waltz through that. International and national law also allows producers to market their films. Mrs Oosenbrug asked: why do we not include an exception to competition law in the law as is the case in Germany? We want to offer creators as much legal certainty as possible. An exception to the Competition Act which would allow undertakings to make collective price agreements could still be at odds with European competition law. The ACM and the Commission are also obliged to act against this. In order to prevent manufacturers from entering this situation, a solution has been proposed which we are sure will fit within the framework of European competition law. The decisive factor here is that the determination of fair remuneration is a public decision. An exception to competition law is therefore not necessary in order to achieve the objective set. I note that the Germans have arranged it, but they have never used it. That is the actual situation. So it's in there, but they never use it. That also has something to do with the workability. There is also a suspicion that this cannot be the solution to the complex problems we face on this subject. I think I have answered all the questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u65	Thank you. Let me see if Members need a second term. I see that this is the case. I give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u66	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and for the commitment to the planned evaluation. It seems to me that it is a good solution to receive an intermediate position at least after two and a half years and a broader evaluation after five years. I think it is inherent in a complex legislative proposal in which so many interests are at stake, and that is the case with the bill we are discussing today, which leaves questions. It is precisely an in-depth assessment that can clarify how the law works for all parties and on all points. It has been pointed out on several occasions that there has been a long debate on this bill and that it is good to conclude this process now. I also welcome the comments made following Mrs Helder's suggestion on the Disputes Committee. I think this is a good point from Mrs Helder. As I understand it, some preparations will be made for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u67	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to the questions. The same goes for his announcement that there are sometimes legislative proposals that you read on a Sunday afternoon and which you think on a Tuesday night "I'll take it" because that was also the case with me. It has led me to a number of additional questions, which have also been answered by the Secretary of State. So my group is satisfied with that. I didn't ask about the Disputes Committee for nothing. It is very important to us because the aim is a way of settling disputes that is easily accessible. My group therefore believes that this Committee on Disputes should actually be set up. The Secretary of State has almost made a firm commitment on this point. However, since my group would like to see a stick behind the door, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the copyright law bill (33308) provides a basis for the establishment of a Disputes Commission;]] [[noting that the purpose of the Disputes Commission is to provide a low-threshold provision for the settlement of disputes between creators and operators;]] [[points out that such a dispute committee should be established;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that this Disputes Commission actually arrives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33308-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u68	Mr President, can we wait 30 seconds for my motion to be printed out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u69	Yeah, you can. Otherwise, Mr Van Dijk will have additional motions on him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u70	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the speed train with which he gave the answers. They were also of high quality. He made a number of points clear and made a commitment on a number of points. I announced that I am still chewing on a number of points. I will give some thought to whether or not to submit a proposal for broadening to more than one contribution to the main actors, screenwriter and director. I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State. He said he did two things. He has taken the legal frameworks as the starting point: Articles 40 and 2 of Directive 2011/77, if I say so. In addition, he based himself on the fact that the consultation and the deal between a number of parties resulted in these groups. That's when I thought about it. The answer from the Secretary of State went so quickly that I only came to an idea just in time which I thought covered my problem on the one hand and met the words of the Secretary of State on the other. He said: Mr Verhoeven, be sensible, do not put all these amendments in the wrong direction. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is prepared to evaluate after two and a half years. That's faster than for example after four years. In itself, it's also a term I could live with. You need a little time to figure out how it works, but that period shouldn't be too long. Then I wondered why I wasn't quite reassured. This is because we are dealing with the fact that there are interest groups and professional associations with a lot of people, but also a lot not. I would also like the evaluation to look at the interests of those who are not represented in those organisations. That did not happen completely in the consultation and in the deal; hence my concerns. It is now too late to correct that problem, which is perhaps too much to look at, but I have made a motion to deal with that problem. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only a limited number of creators are represented within the agreement made between Portal Audiovisual Makers (PAM) and Rights Consultation for Distribution of Audiovisual Productions (RODAP) on a new remuneration system for film and television exploitations;]] [[calls on the Government to organise the evaluation of the Copyright Contract Law Act in such a way that makers who are not represented are consulted within the agreement between PAM and RODAP,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33308-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u71	The purpose of this motion is therefore to involve the scope, as Mr Van Wijngaarden has asked, in the evaluation in two and a half years' time, which will examine how this is going to work. In doing so, we must also listen and look at the interests of the creators who are not represented in the organised professional organisations. We must also take account of these interests. That's the idea behind this motion. It is a rather subtle motion, but its operation, namely that all makers are sufficiently heard, could reassure me. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the answers about the fictional maker. On the one hand, I find it understandable that the Secretary of State says: Shell is also a legal person, so that kind of legal person feels limited; moreover, a lot of small companies will be able to set themselves up in a good way towards the professional parties. On the other hand, I do think there is still a problem for those fictional makers. However, this also applies: let us use the evaluation in two and a half years' time. In short, I will go along with a number of answers from the Secretary of State. So today, as he hoped, he managed to convince me somewhat. I hope, however, that my motion will ensure that we do not just listen to the parties representing the copyright polder, no matter how good and important, while forgetting all kinds of creators who are not members of those parties. I think we'd be going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u72	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the clear and comprehensive answer to the questions that were still before our group. There were a few tricky points in that too. The answer of the Secretary of State has convinced me to embrace this bill. The question about Article 9a also produced direct results, for which I thank you. I say this particularly to the officials, because I assume that they have done so quickly. The Secretary of State has given an adequate response to all the questions and concerns that we had about the evaluation, so the PvdA can wholeheartedly support this bill after this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u73	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. I have three more points. Firstly, the fixing of tariffs. It is very important for the rights and security of existence of creators. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Copyright Law Act provides for a level to be determined of the fair remuneration of a specific industry following a joint request from an association of creators and an operator;]] [[considers that setting these rates will strengthen the rights and security of existence of creators;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage operators and manufacturers in the various sectors to enter into negotiations as soon as possible with a view to setting tariffs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33308-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u74	Then there's the dispute committee. I think it's very important that there be one. Mrs Helder also thinks that this is very important. She has also tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. I have a motion on it, too, and it's just as different. Mrs Helder says that the government must in any case ensure that this committee is there and I suggest that the Secretary of State should take care of it if necessary. The text reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Copyright Law Act provides for the possibility of the appointment of a Disputes Committee by the Minister of Security and Justice where a dispute can be settled between a creator and his opposite party or a third party;]] [[considers that it is important for creators to be able to obtain their rights in an easily accessible manner;]] [[invites the Government, if necessary, to make use of the possibility to appoint a Disputes Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Oosenbrug, Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33308-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u75	Given the support of the motion, I can already say that the Secretary of State can see it as the support he just asked for. Finally. I had asked if the Secretary of State had taken note of that petition and that beautiful booklet by the creators, which shows how important a creative sector is for a country like the Netherlands, because without it, our country would be cold and cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u76	This brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u77	It's a detail, but I just filed a motion, with text on both sides. The correct text was on the back. It's not a big difference, but I'll change the motion. The thrust of the motion remains that I want the unrepresented makers to be properly heard in the evaluation in two and a half years' time. That's the essence of the motion. It's as simple as that. I'll change it a little bit, but it doesn't change the spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u78	That seems important to me, because then the Secretary of State will know exactly what you mean. Then he can respond to that. The Secretary of State doesn't have all the motions yet. We'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u79	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their second-term comments. I would like to thank Mr Van Wijngaarden and Mrs Oosenbrug for their support. This applies to everyone when it comes to this bill. I would also like to thank Mrs Oosenbrug for her kind words and for saying that at least her group thinks that there has been an adequate response to everything. The same applies to Mr Van Wijngaarden. I think I speak for everyone when I say that the intermediate position as of 1 January 2018 and the final evaluation as of 1 July 2020 are a good summary. I shall now turn to Mr Verhoeven's specific motion. I have failed to make the contribution of the VVD group to the Taverne amendment, because I have not yet spoken about it. I still owe a response to that. I agree with the thrust of this amendment. I leave the final assessment of the amendment to the Chamber, but I agree with it. I would also like to thank Mrs Helder for her support. I agree with her, Mr Verhoeven and others that the Committee on Disputes is extremely important. That is why the basis for this is also laid down in the law. I have already said that we will ensure that the Disputes Committee actually gets there. I see this motion as a policy support. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. Mr Verhoeven made a number of comments. You shouldn't always listen to gepolder, to put it that way, but sometimes poldering leads to good results when you're stuck in an impasse for years. It is not always the worst way to come up with solutions, but it is not always the best way. In this case, it's the best way. I think it goes without saying that we should also allow everyone to speak in order to determine whether it is going well as of 1 January 2018, including those who are not represented in the PAM and the RODAP, such as Mr Verhoeven in his motion on item No. Fourteen have requested. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I see this motion as a policy support. I would also like to insist on this and to put it into practice in this way. I did read the book. I get worn out for culturally barbaric sometimes, but the opposite is true. I totally agree with the book. Although I don't read many books and I don't listen to much music, I watch a lot of movies. That's culture, too. You can watch James Bond 16 times, and he'll still be fun. I just wanted to say that. In his motion in part No. 15 Mr Van Dijk asked the government to encourage operators and manufacturers in different sectors to enter into negotiations as soon as possible. The law provides frameworks for parties to come together in many respects. I also consider this motion to be a support for the policy. As we sit here together, we as legislators outline the frameworks and parties fill them in by making good agreements with appropriate tariffs. In that light, I see this motion, so I await the judgment of the Chamber with confidence. In her motion in part No. 13 Ms Helder asked the Government, if necessary, to make use of the possibility to appoint a Disputes Commission. In view of the way in which people have dealt with each other in this sector recently and the way in which the covenant has been drawn up, I have no problem with this motion. I'm confident that the Disputes Committee will be there. Of course, if necessary, I am prepared to make use of the opportunity to designate such a dispute committee. On this motion, too, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u80	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying and the people who have followed this debate in the public gallery or on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-24.u81	We will be voting on the bill, the amendment and the motions this week.
