ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u1	I would like to welcome you all, both the people in the room and the support and the audience in the gallery and all the others who are watching. I would like to welcome the ruler with his official support. I call Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, for two minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. I was going to table a motion on the Research Council for Security, because my group believes that it is a good idea to look at how it is put together. This must be done in a more transparent way. The Minister has already said in general consultation that he will discuss it. I'm not going to file that motion. However, I would like a firm commitment from the Minister that he will have that discussion in order to promote a more transparent way of composition. I do have another motion on PTSD. You may not be surprised. With the police, PTSS is now legally anchored as an occupational disease. However, we also have other occupational groups on the front line, namely the fire department and the ambulance staff. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that neither the Government nor the Security Council have any insight into the extent and care of PTSS and other occupational diseases of fire and ambulance personnel;]] [[calls on the government to engage in talks with the security regions and ambulance organisations so that good care for occupational diseases in fire and ambulance workers can be regulated (legally),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Berndsen-Jansen and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u3	I have the word 'legal' in brackets, because I am well aware that ambulance services are often private organisations. In particular, it is a question of the Minister talking about promoting this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. Emergency workers are entitled to the best possible support and protection. I am pleased that in early October the Minister asked for attention to be paid to the mental aspects of fire work at the firefighter's conference. Good care for the staff deserves attention. This way you avoid failure and failure of aid workers. I call on the Minister to do his utmost within the limits of his responsibility to increase the safety and employability of aid workers. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality of aftercare for fire and ambulance personnel can be enhanced through cooperation with the care of personnel in Defence and Police;]] [[believes that ambulance and firefighters should be able to rely on the best care and support in mental and physical work, as well as military and police personnel;]] [[calls on the Government to convene a meeting with Fire and Ambulance Employers on the fight against absenteeism and psychotrauma and to call on them to make greater use of the knowledge, structures and experience already in place in the Defence Department and to inform the Chamber about the agreements reached by the end of this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Vermue and Mr Van Wijngaarden. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u5	Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of concerns about PTSD and there is a lot of attention to it; that is right. PTSS is a professional disease that unfortunately also affects firefighters. It is therefore quite right that my colleague from D66, who has always taken the lead in this, has tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. I'm glad I could support that motion. Of course, I also support the motion that has just been tabled by my colleague in the Labour Party. My motion concerns another issue, namely the pension gap that firefighters are dealing with and are running into. Since I have not yet received clear answers and commitments from the Minister, I am helping him a little with this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 2,700 firefighters are currently facing a minimum pension gap of €18,000;]] [[believes that staff who, sometimes at risk for their own lives, should continue to be assured of a fair remuneration for their work;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the trade unions, to find a solution to this problem,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30821-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u6	We wait until the Minister has all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the very constructive way in which we conducted the general consultation on national security. National security is a diffuse subject. During the general consultation we talked about an incredibly wide range of topics. On all these subjects, I have tried the involvement of the Chamber and the individual Members of Parliament, as well as their commitment to doing the right thing on all these subjects. My commitment as a minister is to have said my predecessor, along with the Chamber of Commerce, to act shoulder to shoulder. I am well aware that national security should be in good hands. There's a tricky aspect to it, though. We have organised things very well in so-called security regions. This gives rise to a number of responsibilities for the security regions as such to be accountable to the parliament. It remains complicated that those who answer to the municipal councils and not to the Lower House. I understand very well that interest groups often call on the House of Representatives to make arrangements. The responsibility for many of these aspects lies, remains and should lie with the security regions themselves, while as a minister I alone have a system responsibility and therefore will not engage in any individual activity. However, through the Safety and Justice Inspectorate, I am keeping a close eye on whether all the legal obligations and other existing agreements are met by those security regions. That's why I'm guarding that line. I will do the same in the debate. There are questions that the Chamber asks me, which should not be asked of me, but belong in the municipal councils, which are part of the common rules of the relevant security regions. This is without prejudice to the fact that I am always prepared, if there are signs from the security regions that things are not going well, to discuss this with the Security Council. That's my direct interlocutor. It is not that I will then be burdening that responsibility on me, other than the system responsibility I have. Having said that, I come to the motion in part No. 24 by Mrs Berndsen-Jansen. It says that I need to talk to the security regions and ambulance organisations, so that proper care for occupational diseases can be arranged (legally) by fire and ambulance staff. I note that the responsibility for ambulance organisations lies with the Minister of VWS, not with me. So that is already a difficult aspect in this motion. Mrs Berndsen-Jansen said in the explanatory statement that 'legal' is in brackets, because she also realizes that it may not be necessary. I hope you don't have to. It does, however, want sufficient attention to be paid to these occupational diseases. I visited the Amsterdam-Amstelland fire department today and actually only talked about occupational diseases, including with the firefighters themselves. That was extremely insightful, because there is a sense that occupational diseases pose a serious risk to the fire department. I have less knowledge of ambulances, but I have had good conversations today with the fire department. I also feel that responsibility is being taken by the firefighters. The assessment of the motion is difficult because it gives the impression that I should take up that discussion on my own responsibility. It is said that the government must enter into talks so that good care can be taken care of. That's not our responsibility. We are not responsible for the conversation, let alone for that responsible care. When Mrs Berndsen says that she means, more in line with the Vermue/Van Wijngaarden motion, that we should take the initiative to convene a meeting with the organisations responsible for it with the employers who are directly responsible for it, in order to ensure that they are seriously involved in the discussion, it is quite similar to the motion by Mr Vermue and Mr Van Wijngaarden. Mr. Chairman. I see Mrs Berndsen at the interrupting microphone. Before I speak, I would like to give her the opportunity to speak on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u8	Once you have completed your consideration of the motion, I will give her the opportunity to do so as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u9	I realize I'm on your property, and I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u10	I noticed that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u11	I understand very well that you are strictly holding on to this, but before I give my advice on the motion, perhaps it would be good if Mrs Berndsen could tell us whether she agrees with my exegesis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u12	Mrs Berndsen, is this exegesis of the Minister acceptable to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u13	I'm always sensitive to formal arguments. I think it would be wise for me at least to amend the motion by removing the paramedics. That is indeed not the responsibility of this Minister. Furthermore, it says "to enter into conversation," but it does not say that the Minister should arrange it. He should, as it were, facilitate and stress the importance of the security regions taking care of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u14	Will we summarise it in such a way that the precise wording is still being discussed? There will be an amended motion, with further advice from the executive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u15	I note that Mrs Berndsen is allowed to leave 'ambulance staff' with this explanation. I am quite prepared to enter such a meeting, although I do not wish to have it, and I would like to say quite openly that Mrs Berndsen then appeals to me that the ambulance staff did not come, because that is not my concern. But Mrs Berndsen will not do that; I know her well enough for that. Moreover, I am almost certain that if I provide a good timing for that meeting, there is a good chance that Mrs Berndsen will not be able to appeal to me anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u16	Is this interpretation acceptable to Mrs Berndsen? With that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u17	The exegesis of the motion does lead to the fact that it is actually similar to the Vermue/Van Wijngaarden motion in part No. 25, in which the government is invited to convene a meeting with the employers of fire and ambulances on combating absenteeism and psychotrauma and to call on them to make greater use of the knowledge, structures and experience already in existence in the Defence Department and to inform the Chamber about the agreements made by the end of this year. Those are the agreements that are made within the framework of the employers. It might be a good idea to put these motions together. Then there are four signatories and one motion. But I'll leave that to the Chamber. With Mrs Berndsen's motion as we have just agreed, I can leave it to the House to decide. I am giving the same opinion on the motion by Mr Vermue and Mr Van Wijngaarden, in particular because they emphasise the cooperation with Defence, which is also taking place within the framework of the basis and where further integration is always possible. I also say to Mr Vermue and Mr Van Wijngaarden that I am not responsible for the ambulance staff. However, I would like to play a leading role in this if we agree that I will not be called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u18	The judgment on the Berndsen-Jansen/Kooiman motion in part No. 24 shall be left to the Chamber, taking into account the exegesis of the executive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u19	The Minister says that the first motion and the second motion can be put together, but I do not agree with him, because I think that the comparison with Defence is actually flawed. I would much rather have it looked at how it was organized by the police. Fire department, police and ambulance are all in that security area together, so I'd be much better off looking at the police. So I'm not actually going to amend my motion or merge it with the second motion. Besides, I tried that. I invited both parties to sign my motion. They thought they should come forward with their own motion. So I'm not going to put the motions together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u20	The motion in part No. 24 received an opinion on the Court of Justice, taking into account the Minister's exegesis. That remains unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u21	The Minister suggested that the motions be put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u22	That is correct and we understand that this is not going to happen. The judgment on the motion in part No. 25 is also left to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u23	Yes. The good news, I say to Mrs Berndsen, is that I am not going to deal with the motions. It is entirely up to the Chamber to decide on this, but I shall gladly take up the substance of both motions. Then I come to the Kooiman motion in part No. 26. Mrs. Kooiman already feels it coming. I have just explained the distribution of responsibility. The motion calls on the government to enter into consultation with the trade unions, as if there were consultations between the government and the trade unions on the fire department. There is no such consultation. There can't be. For this reason, the motion is contrary to the way in which it is regulated in the Netherlands and I will have to discourage its adoption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u24	The adoption of the motion for a resolution in part No. 26 is not recommended. That is a reason for Mrs Kooiman to cause an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u25	This is very easy to dismiss, now that the government itself is responsible for the pension gap. As a result of the increase in retirement age, these people are now faced with a huge problem. I therefore find it a little unfortunate that this Minister is throwing away responsibility. Does this Minister really not make any effort to see whether a solution can be found for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u26	That's another question. It is also a question that Mrs Kooiman asked during the general consultation. I replied at that time that I am, of course, prepared to do so in order to discuss with the Security Council, my interlocutor in this matter, the umbrella body of the security regions, in order to inform them that I appreciate that they will ensure that there is a discussion between the Fire Weather Chamber and the National Consultation Fire Weather Specific Working Conditions. That's the platform in which the conversation should take place. I would like to emphasise the importance of this. I already promised. In that sense, this motion is superfluous, I say to Mrs Kooiman. She laughs nicely, I say before the Acts, and I am used to that from her. I am also saying this to the cameras, because today I have been explicitly put on the table by the firefighters of the Amsterdam Amstelland Fire Department. Once again, I have said that I will take action against the Security Council in general consultation, bearing in mind my commitment. It would be a good thing if we really tried to find a good solution together. So I will, but I have to advise against the motion. It is up to Mrs Kooiman to put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u27	We appreciate the fact that the Minister appreciates Mrs Kooiman's smile. Does that lead to the amendment of this motion or its withdrawal, also in view of the commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u28	If this Minister can appreciate the pressure from the Chamber and also move a little, in consultation with the Security Council, I am of course very pleased with that. However, I would also like to know what will come out of that. As the Minister himself has noticed, the despair of firefighters is sometimes great and so is the pension gap. Can the Minister promise that he will inform the Chamber about this? Can he tell me when he'll do that? Then I might be able to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u29	I cannot mention a time limit, because the consultation is not taking place with me or under my responsibility. I will emphasise in my letter to the Security Council that I have been asked by the Chamber to pass on the urgency felt. I will. Of course, once that consultation has been concluded, I will inform the Chamber about it, but knowing Mrs Kooiman, she will know much earlier than I will know that when it has been done. Nevertheless, I will formally confirm to Mrs Kooiman that what she already knows by that time is also true. I would like her to consider not holding that motion, but to withdraw it, but that is entirely up to Mrs Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u30	Anything to keep the pressure on, so I won't withdraw the motion, but I'll hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u31	At the request of Mrs Kooiman, I propose her motion (30821, No. 26). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u32	I should like to conclude by saying that, at least as far as firefighters are concerned, I always have to be reminded that firefighters have a heavy function in which they find themselves in very challenging circumstances. It is very good that the Chamber and I, but certainly also the safety councils, the national consultation and, of course, the fire department are aware of the fact that firefighters are at risk of occupational disease. It would be good, as I say to the people I have been with today, if there was sufficient attention to that. I very much appreciate that the Chamber has that attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-15-tweedekamer-15.u33	I thank you all very much for your input and your commitment, including the ruler and his support. The vote on the motions tabled will take place on the Tuesday following the recess.
