ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-22.u1	We say goodbye to colleague Slob. I would like to welcome his family to the President's Lodge. Mr Slob has sent me a letter which I would like to share with you. "Dear President, dear Anouchka, Stef Bos already sang it: we come and we go. After today, the caravan will continue without me. I have decided that this is the time for me to resign. Not an easy decision, but taken in the knowledge that when it comes to it, we are all passing by for a short or long time in this Parliament. I have been allowed to be a member of the House of Representatives for almost 14 and a half years. So far, I have found that an honor and great privilege. My choice of not being available at new elections has ultimately led to this interim farewell. As the political leader of my party, I must now make way for and give space to my successor, Gert-Jan Segers. As a result, I cannot fully serve my mandate in 2012, but I see no other way in my position than to go. I look back on special years. As a new Member of Parliament, I experienced the last few months of the Kok II cabinet. After that, politically speaking, things have not calmed down. Not only the electorate became more and more driven, but also about politics itself a kind of blanket of unrest fell. Peilings, the great pressure to remain visible and the increased competition among ourselves determine to a large extent our functioning. There is less time and space for reflection and picking up long-term topics. On the other hand, our democracy flourishes like never before. The time when a number of large middle parties were in the service and the smaller parties had checked, seems to be long behind us. It has always been my desire to be of service to society from my Christian belief in life. In doing so, work closely with politicians who have become politically active from another conviction. Many of you have succeeded. It will not surprise anyone that I particularly mention Mr Pechtold and Mr Van der Staaij. But also our former colleagues Hamer and Van Geel. I thank them, all the other colleagues, but also the members of the cabinet for the cooperation I was allowed to have with them. Over the years, I have found out more and more about the impact of the words spoken in this Parliament. Spoken words matter. German Benedictine Father Anselm Grün once wrote about this: "Words can crush us, injure us and ask us about them. However, words can also be founded and encouraged. Words can become a house we live in. Only words that do not judge can become a home in which people feel at home, in which they may be who they are." It has been my sincere desire and commitment to speak words in this Parliament that people could live in. If I have failed to do so in the heat of the debate in recent years, I apologise for that. Finally. I'm leaving the caravan today. My place will be back in Zwolle and the province of Overijssel, where I have been living with great pleasure for almost thirty years and will now work again. You will move on and tomorrow you will receive reinforcements from Eppo Bruins, who will take the open Christian Union seat. I will continue to follow you all at some distance and with due interest. I thank everyone for the good contacts. The clerks, the messengers, the restaurant staff, the guards and other chamber staff for their professional and often very personal care. And, of course,'my' own group and the staff who support us should not remain unnamed here. I've locked them in my heart. I wish them and all of you all the best. Adieu! Arie Slob'
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-22.u2	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that this letter be adopted for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-22.u3	Dear Mr. Slob, dear Arie, The first time we met was at the Jaarbeurs in Utrecht during an election debate on education in 2003. I was an upcoming MP and, I fear, incredibly inexperienced. I was really nervous in that room, and you gave me friendly advice. I remember that well, and also how impressed I was that you were going to stand there and speak in front of that huge hall. Once I was a Member of Parliament, we once went to work together to visit Canada. There was a Sunday in this work visit and we took a trip to the Niagara Falls. It was quite special to sail on that water, underneath those waterfalls, in such a plastic festival rain suit. We also laughed so much on that trip. I really got to know you there as a family man, interested in people, in your colleagues, but also serious and driven. Others, MPs, journalists and fellow party members, call you a modest man. In an interview, you linked that to the fact that your father was a middleman, always incredibly hard at work. He was pulling up sleeves, not making yourself bigger than you are, but not smaller, so you added yourself. That side of you, that pertinent, that intransigent comes from your love of content. That became clear during your maiden speech, which was about educational shortages. You said: 'In the few weeks that I am now a Member of Parliament, I was able to say 'no' three times in this Chamber during a roll-call vote. You understand that the time has come to make a more substantive contribution now." You're not from the oneliners except this one, but more of a comprehensive, substantive underpinning. You must be biting files. It can also be seen when you're standing behind the speaker chair here. You often do it out of your head. On your way to the cathedral, I often only see you pulling a few tickets out of the inside pocket of your jacket. Under your leadership, the Christian Union has become a party that is taken into account in The Hague. The fact that the Christian Union was to migrate in 2007 was one of your highlights. At that time, there were five new people in the group. Vulnerable you thought that, but also very special. Together with André Rouvoet you travelled to Landgoed Lauswolt in Beetsterzwaag for the formation discussions that led to the coalition agreement with the CDA and the Party of Labour. Rouvoet became Deputy Prime Minister, you group chairman. You were very aware that with six seats you had a lot to crumble in the milk. Other highlights in your view are the spring agreement, the autumn agreement and the partial agreements on specific themes. You wanted to contribute, influence, make a difference. The Christian Union came up with concrete results from the negotiations, including the preservation of employment and free textbooks. You were a strong and clear negotiator. You left no doubt about it: anyone could come to the Christian Union. However, you never gave the guarantee in advance that you would open the door. When you entered the Lower House in 2001, that was formally still before the Reformed Political Confederation, the GPV. You were the chairman of the political group and leader of the Christian Union for many years. That wasn't a light job. You also actively and visibly committed yourself to your own region. You found peace in running. "Excitingly relaxed" you called it. You often did this early in the morning for day and dew, for Presidium meetings, for meetings of the Temporary Commission for Infrastructure Projects and for all those debates on education and finance. During the run, ideas arose, for example for the establishment of the national platform Resistance against violence, for the conversation between Minister Van Bijsterveldt and representatives of educational organizations, which you personally arranged to restore the disturbed relations, or for the last motion you submitted together with Mr Klaver, Mr Roemer and Mr Pechtold on 14 October 2015, in which you called on the government never to use austerity as an instrument of foreign policy. Arie, you're not good at saying goodbye, so you said in an interview. I think I speak for the whole Chamber when I say we're sorry you're leaving, too. You're one of the longest serving MPs. With you, a piece of collective memory disappears. You called membership an honor and a privilege, and it is. However, I'm sure you can also give content to what you like in life outside the Binnenhof. After fourteen years of chamber work, fourteen years of top sports, there's time for those other passions of yours. You will be director of the Historical Center Overijssel, a nice job for a historian and for someone who is so attached to his province and to his hometown Zwolle. Maybe you'll show up at the start of a marathon. At least you have one medal or award. His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint you knight in the Order of Orange Nassau. May I ask you to step forward so I can pin down the decorations that are part of this appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-tweedekamer-22.u4	Before the order of business begins, I shall suspend the sitting briefly. You can briefly congratulate Mr Slob in or around the Chamber, but there is a real farewell reception this afternoon.
