ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u1	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, also to the members of this Chamber who have contributed. I would like to address the questions raised by the various groups on the legislative proposal. For a moment I would like to specify a layout in which I would like to answer the questions. First of all, I would like to highlight the reason for the legislative proposal and then clarify the income effects. I have sent a piece on this subject, by intercession of the members of this Chamber. Thirdly, I would like to deal with labour market effects, fourthly with the effects of the transition on people, and fifthly with a number of other questions. The answer is therefore given in five blocks. The proposal is an elaboration of the government agreement, which agreed that the AOW age should be gradually increased to 66 years in 2018 and 67 years in 2021. The AOW age will then be linked to life expectancy from 2022 onwards. Why is this bill needed? Almost all Members have asked questions about this. I have always said, also in the written reply and in the House of Representatives, that the draft law before us makes an important contribution to improving public finances in the medium term and that this is one of the main reasons. In view of the sustainability of public finances, the cabinet has had to balance the urgency of the budgetary problem with the legal certainty of people who are in this case just before their retirement. In short, that is the reason for it. We have already exchanged that the legislative proposal does not have structural effects for the longer term, because for the longer term sustainability of public finances, the CPB's analysis in the report Less concern about ageing shows that the sustainability balance has been reversed from a deficit of 4.5% of gross domestic product to a surplus of 0.4% in 2014. Of course, the increase in the age of AOW has played a major role in this. I listened very carefully to the contributions of the members of this Chamber. Many members have stressed that the increase in the age of AOW in the context of the fact that we as Dutch people live longer than 50 years ago, and, as it now seems, will live even longer, as well as the legislative proposal that was adopted earlier, are very timely. That's what the CPB figures show. The Group of the Party of European Socialists and Mr Nagel have pointed out that savings should be avoided in relation to the CEP action. That is why it is a good thing that we are discussing this bill this afternoon. Asked if there were any alternatives. When the coalition agreement was concluded, of course, a great deal has been reviewed and the legislative proposal before us is part of the broad package of measures. The measures in the coalition agreement are, of course, not only applicable to the elderly or those in need of their AOW, but to all citizens. Of course, there are always alternatives when you make a coalition agreement, but this has been chosen throughout the constellation of the coalition agreement. To put it bluntly, I would point out that, as Mr Reuten suggested, for example, a tax of 50 cents per household in terms of financial savings does not come close to the savings made by this bill. In the Netherlands there are about 7.5 million households. With a tax of 50 cents per household per year, a small 4 million per year is saved. That would really be a lot less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u2	That's also the amount and 9 times 4 is 36, so 3.6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u3	But we are talking about 4 million a year, while this medium-term bill is far more effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u4	400 million a year for nine years! 9 times 4 is 36, so 3.6 billion. That's exactly the amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u5	I think we have a phenomenon. If we have 7.5 million households and we ask for 50 cents a year, it will yield 4 million a year. Not 400 million, but 4 million. I'm sorry, but that's really a different order of magnitude. Mrs De Boer has asked what the money saved is used for. I think it's a logical question and she delivered a nice laundry list for it. I believe that I should be quite right to respond to this, because the savings made by this bill are part of the broad package. The government agreement agreed that public finances should also be settled in the medium term. However, these savings do not represent a one-on-one increase in expenditure on certain budget lines. The savings are part of a wide range of measures to put public finances in order. Mr Beckers of the VVD has asked a question in the same context: what exactly has been decisive in this consideration and who exactly is meant by "this group"? Here too, the assessment has been made that the accelerated increase in the AOW age has been made in a broader perspective. In doing so, a contribution was asked of all citizens of the Netherlands to put public finances in order, including this group of Dutch people. When considering increasing the AOW age, it was also taken into account that certain groups were not able to prepare for this acceleration. This is done with a bridging scheme for people who have already taken up VRS or pre-retirement and who themselves do not have sufficient resources to compensate for the AOW gap. That brings me to the end of the first block and I would like to continue with the income effects of this proposal. At the request of this Chamber, I used the pause to send it in writing in order to clarify matters for the sake of clarity. I hope this will help to streamline this debate further. It is, of course, a question of looking closely at what this means for the people in the Netherlands who belong to this group. The loss of income in euros varies from one person to another. This depends not only on the number of months with which the AOW age is increased, but also on the living situation of people, i.e. whether they are single, married or cohabiting, and on the degree of AOW-building. In addition, the income effects depend on whether someone decides to continue working or has a benefit that extends to the AOW age. This applies, for example, to the WW, the WIA and other benefits. There will not always be a loss of income, because in many cases the higher AOW age will lead to longer working hours. Longer working often means that one receives a higher income than if one had retired. Even after the AOW-age, these people have a higher income, because more supplementary pension is built up and that supplementary pension starts later. For people with a statutory benefit, such as the WW, the WIA and the IOW, it extends to the AOW age. If the maximum duration of WW is reached for the AOW age, entitlement to IOW will be obtained. There will often be no loss of income for this group either. In addition, there are older people who have already completed a pre-pension scheme. The government agreement has decided on a bridging arrangement for the group of people who have already taken up pre-retirement before 2013. The members of the Chamber also addressed this in their term of office. In the House of Representatives, motions have been tabled by members Klaver and Heerma who have led to the extension and extension of the bridging regime. I think that this also offers a great deal of relief for the people involved. In the written reply, I gave a more precise account of the numbers and income effects. I've tried to put that in writing one more time. I can leave it at that as far as the income effects are concerned. On my last point, I would like to address Mrs De Boer's specific question. The comments made by many members of this Chamber on labour market effects also make sense. The accelerated increase in the AOW age does not result in structural displacement, but no one has said that either. I would like to stress that. The long-term demand for labour is determined by the supply of labour. Research carried out by the Central Planning Bureau also shows that changes in the labour market, such as the increase in the age of AOW, which means that older people remain longer on the labour market, do not lead to structural displacement of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u6	What does the Secretary of State mean by structural balance? What unemployment rate is she thinking of?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u7	I listened very carefully to Mr Reuten. He said there are all kinds of different percentages. If it's economical, you have a higher unemployment rate. Mr Reuten said that you would need a number of years to put that right. Of course, I take the concerns about displacement seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u8	I'm not talking about that displacement. In the long run, you say, there is balance. What level of unemployment do you consider to be balanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u9	I said that CPB research shows that changes in the labour market, including the increase in the AOW age,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u10	Yeah, I heard that, but what percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u11	There's not really a percentage where you say there's balance in the labour market. It is clear that we are in economic weather and that the current rate is high. I understand, therefore, that the Chamber is asking for careful consideration to be given to whether measures lead to labour market displacement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u12	Over the past 35 years, we have had an unemployment rate below 4 over three years. That long-term balance is always a longer-term one than it is today. Well, bon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u13	I did not use the word 'balance' as such. I think we all agree that we are looking for the lowest possible unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u14	The Secretary of State is trying to turn a very poignant story into some kind of good news show. If I understand her correctly, people can squeeze their hands, because they get even better with a higher income. Isn't it certain that people get an average of 4.5 or 4.3 months less AOW? That could go up to nine months. And then as a single person, you have an income loss of €9,000. That comes on top of previous holes that have arisen. The Secretary of State has received numerous letters. The trade unions and the committees have shown it. Surely you can't tell them that they're actually getting better? It's deeply sad what's happening to these people. When you hear the circumstances in which they end up, I just don't understand why the Secretary of State can produce such a story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u15	I didn't want to put a good news show here. In fact, I'm not. I think I have said quite equestrianly that this bill also carries in it that the rich budget will be put in order. I have stressed that the income effects vary greatly from one individual to another. If people continue to work up to the age of AOW, they will hardly change anything. In fact, you could say that they stay in income at level. If they did go with AOW, they would be adjusted downwards accordingly. I have also said that I am well aware that some people are already with early retirement or pre-retirement. A bridging arrangement has been designed for a reason. We all see this, not only the cabinet, but also the Second Chamber of the States General. I have also listened carefully to the First Chamber and to the social partners. They have all underlined that this bridging scheme is essential for people who have been or are retired and who have a low pension. We have taken this very seriously for a reason. I will come back to the labour market effects of the bill. I take the concerns about repression seriously, as far as it is concerned. I also understand these concerns, because it makes sense for people to worry about displacement at all levels at a time of high unemployment. This risk of displacement is particularly common to the group of older beneficiaries. The cabinet is therefore taking a large number of concrete measures to strengthen the labour market position of this group. I would like to mention short-term issues such as the premium discount, the no-risk policy, the pilot placement and the sectoral plans. We also reduced the action plan '55-plus works' by five years to '50-plus works'. Last summer, the SZW Minister adapted the subsidy scheme to make better use of it. For this, an additional 34 million has been allocated. In short, the action plan "50-plus works" has an effect. Des Pudels Kern of this morning's debate was that there was a lot of zooming in on the question of exactly how the leaking is going. Expenditure on social security schemes up to the AOW age, such as the WW and the WIA, is increasing, as benefits go through to the increased AOW age. This gap has been taken into account in the calculations and in the budgetary tables that we have included in the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal. The savings on the AOW, the AIO and the income support AOW amount to 4.5 billion cumulatively and the gap is 1.7 billion cumulatively. Of course, this brings us to 2.9 billion at the end of the journey that this saving will bring. In addition, tax and premium revenues increase by 770 million cumulatively over this period. Mr Reuten and Mr Backer, but actually everyone, have asked about the benefits in the context of the Participation Act. They wonder whether municipalities should be included as welfare benefits and thus provide longer assistance to municipalities. We are not talking about the general distribution of the Municipal Fund. Let me make that clear, because that was the subject of this morning's debate. We are talking about the income part of the assistance, the I part. On the contrary, we did not want to embed that part in the general benefit, even in the case of decentralisation. The I part remains a separate phenomenon. This is reflected every year in the number of benefits granted on the basis of the year t-1. The number of welfare benefits has grown considerably in recent years due to the fact that the economy was on the lower shore. As a result, municipalities have had a larger I-part. That part is always taken into account in the national budget. This doesn't mean that municipalities are getting any lower ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u16	This is not at all the essence of the matter. The Secretary of State has indeed booked that 1.6 billion, but that is not the point. The point is that the Secretary of State has said that most elderly people will continue to work up to the higher AOW age. Indeed, if most older people work up to the higher AOW age, you will be forced to reduce potential employment for the unemployed and municipalities will be faced with additional welfare benefits compared to the current situation. That's the point! These additional benefits are involved. They were not included in the estimate of the costs and benefits of the legislative proposal. That is the crux of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u17	Just as we make every year in the context of other legislative proposals, we also look at how much assistance has been provided every year in the context of this legislative proposal. If the still unconfirmable premise is that people, young people, stay longer in the assistance because other people work longer, then municipalities must be given sufficient resources for the I part every year to be able to provide assistance. People who call for assistance and are entitled to it will always receive that assistance. The Empire ensures that there is enough I-part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u18	Mr. Reuten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u19	I repeat what the Secretary of State says. Most elderly people will continue to work up to the increased AOW age. A small proportion of the elderly will be in a different benefit situation for longer. Each older person who continues to work means an additional social assistance allowance for the municipalities. It's not in the estimate. If the Secretary of State's claim is correct that most will continue to work, 50% of the benefits of the bill will lapse. In this respect, the Secretary of State has misrepresented matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u20	You will understand that I absolutely disagree with that. It is not for nothing that we have made it cumulatively clear that the resources needed to ensure that all kinds of benefits are passed on together amount to 1.7 billion. That's why we deducted them. This seems very clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u21	There are a few things that are mixed up, namely the debate on displacement and the debate on what effects it will have on who. In the first term, but also in connection with a debate with Mr Reuten, I raised the question of how this happened in the municipalities. Now I've had some time in between to check if we're using the right terminology. The Secretary of State says it's the Municipal Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u22	No, the "I" part, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u23	Yeah, I know. There are three flows: the general benefit per social share fund with WMO and the like and the I benefit for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u24	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u25	Secretary of State says it's t-1. That's the system. So it's been a year. Relevant is the key in that I part if there is indeed an increased call on assistance. Of course, that only becomes clear a year later. How big that is, we can't say. Nor can I judge whether it is a wrong sum, whether it is a budgetary or a macro-economic sum, but that is actually less relevant to me. Can it be taken into account in any other way in the key? I see all kinds of research being carried out into a possible revision of the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u26	I am glad that Mr Backer is breaking things up so clearly. Let me do that, too. There is a general payment from the Municipal Fund. Furthermore, of course, you have specific benefits. Within the general benefit is the I part, which only covers the income part of the assistance, and what we now call the social part. This is really about the I-part. A distribution model was created for this last year. On the basis of that distribution model, the I-money is distributed among all 393 municipalities. I am currently completing the distribution model together with the VNG and a number of municipalities. In addition, we look closely at the dimensions for the I-part. Mr Backer is now saying: Imagine that this bill will allow more people to call on the assistance or people to call on it for longer. I would like to stress once again that this is an option. So it's really in the lap of the future. If I imagine something like this, it remains that, even if for other reasons there are more beneficiaries of assistance, one year later we will examine with the municipalities whether the assistance budget should be upgraded or downgraded. We've been acting with this system for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u27	Following on from Mr Reuten, I would like to see a different distinction clarified. When we talk about "leakage" to welfare, we're actually talking about two groups of people. The first group consists of people who are longer on welfare because they are themselves dealing with delayed AOW. I believe that this "defect" has been included in the calculations made for this bill. Is that right? Will the Secretary of State correct me if he doesn't? The second group consists of the people I think Mr Reuten is talking about: the welfare recipients who come in because of the employment of people who work longer because of the deferred AOW age. Quite apart from the question of how large this group is, on which I disagree with Mr Reuten, the question is whether it is true that these spill-over effects were not included in the calculation of the disposal effects in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u28	We have all the leaking effects, it is a word of the various benefits taken into account in the 1.7 billion cumulatively, so both the leaking effects of those already in the assistance and thus remain in it for longer as otherwise. This brings me back to what I just said to Mr Backer. Of course, every year you review the exact budget you need for the welfare benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u29	I read the numbers differently. Maybe the Secretary of State can check this out before the second term. I just saw civil servants running away real fast. I don't know if they're gonna calculate or search things now. I read it in such a way that the road leaks in the explanatory memorandum concern only those who are already in the assistance themselves or who use it for longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u30	In the second term, I will further adjudicate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u31	Perhaps it would be good to take a completely different perspective in that analysis. I ask the colleagues what we are actually talking about when we talk about repression. In Dutch society, we make so much effort to increase employment rates in the labour market, including among older people. If an older person gets up and wants to get back to work, is there always displacement? Is there gonna be a job taken? Can you translate this one-on-one into road leak effects and assistance? It just doesn't work that way. There are so many factors that affect unemployment rates. It has to do with the participation rate, with the construction of society and, of course, with the state of the economy. So you can't say one-on-one that an extension, for example an extension of one month in 2016, and an accelerated increase in the AOW age, will lead to a proportional increase in youth unemployment, which can then be passed on into a road leakage effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u32	Is this a question for the Secretary of State or for your colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u33	It is an appeal on my part to include this side of the matter in the analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u34	Of course, you have to take that into account, but in the current unemployment situation you cannot expect it to have any effect on the prospects of the rest if an older person continues to work longer. I'll come back to the numbers. The Secretary of State has included in its estimate amounts of a top year and a low year. In 2016, there is 13 million assistance. This is not in proportion to the table contained in the note following the report and distributed today. For example, it states that 16% of those concerned are currently employed. If the 16% continues to work, jobs for others will be replaced. That number can therefore be translated directly into additional welfare benefits for municipalities. The Secretary of State simply did not take that into account in her budget, in her estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u35	I don't think this is a one-on-one issue at all. I also think that, in the broad debate on employment rates, we should welcome the fact that the employment rate of the group of 55 to 64-year-olds has increased by 17 percentage points in ten years. In 2000, the average Dutchman retired with 60.8 years. In 2014 that is 64.1 years. So we're all working longer than before. Of course, that means a lot of things for the labour market, but you can't do that one-on-one on welfare. That would be very simple. I think we have said enough about it in that context. Again, we have not booked the full 4.5 billion for nothing. We really felt that we should deduct 1.7 billion, because we see that people are in benefits up to retirement age. I have already answered Mr Backer's question on the Municipal Fund. Then I come to the third block, the preparation time and the transitional right. It is extremely important for people to be able to prepare for what is happening around their AOW-right age. The cabinet has weighed up the urgency of the budgetary problem and legal certainty for people just before their retirement. The cabinet has, of course, also been aware of the temporary bridging problems that can be caused by this for people who have little preparation time and few opportunities to compensate for the loss. I have already said that the bridging arrangement was designed for this purpose. Thanks to the two motions in the Lower House, this bridging arrangement has also been extended. That's excellent. We've made about 54 million available for that. Then I come to the question of why the bill is now pending. I underlined this once again in the House of Representatives. Following the conclusion of the coalition agreement, there was a full legislative agenda in all areas and certainly also in the field of SZW. The accelerated increase will start on 1 January 2016. So we didn't have to pick that up immediately. In the House of Representatives I made it clear that it is important that there was support for the proposed acceleration. As a result, this bill is now in the First Chamber. The intention is to adopt and publish the law at the end of June 2015 in the Official Journal, if your Chamber can agree. The law will enter into force the day after the date of publication in the Official Journal. Then the SVB has sufficient time to pay attention to the communication to the elderly when promoting the application for the AOW benefit. The Council of State, of course, has also looked closely at this, as I believe Mr Hoekstra underlined, and has issued a blank opinion. About six months before reaching the AOW pensionable age, the SVB approaches the elderly. So we have enough time to approach everyone in an orderly manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u36	I indicated in my contribution that you met certain requirements with that period of more than six months, but I do not think that the Secretary of State meets the standard she has mentioned earlier. That is also reflected in the legislation. Think of a five-year period for increases of three months. I note that the government may have made the unfortunate choice not to start working with this legislation immediately after the coalition agreement. If that had happened, we would have come a long way towards that five years of preparation. We would have had it a lot easier in this Chamber with each other and with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u37	I'm equestrian in that. Mr Postema has a point. If you could have come up with this bill immediately after the coalition agreement, you would have been formally informed. Materially of course it has been known for a long time. People have started to count on the coalition agreement and have looked at what this would mean to them. I know that from practice, because I also received letters and e-mails. Mr Postema does indeed have a point. I'm equestrian in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u38	Mr. Reuten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u39	Secretary of State says they made a mistake. Mr Postema says that a mistake has been made. Mr Hoekstra says that a mistake has been made. Others say this too, but in the meantime this problem is now on the board of the 65-plussers concerned. They have to knit together what the government has done wrong. Now we say, "Let it happen." We all recognise that we should have warned them sooner and that they have not been able to prepare, but they have to solve the problem themselves. I don't think that's good governance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u40	I am very keen to say that I did not say anything: we made a mistake. I simply said: to Mr Hoekstra's question, I would like to say that, of course, if you can complete your legislation earlier, it is formally clearer to the average Dutchman what the state of affairs is. I don't think I'm saying anything new about that, and it doesn't mean we made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u41	There is still a difference between a mistake and something that appears politically unhappy and not confidence-building on the part of the citizen. The Secretary of State says she's equestrian in that. I listened to her answer. The subject had not yet been discussed in her speech, but now it is again the subject of interruption. I find it just isn't pretty. You can draw a political conclusion to that: do you want it to go away? I've been interrupted about that in the first term. That is ultimately up to my group. But it's just not pretty, and that's okay to say, although that's not a question. Perhaps the question is: doesn't the Secretary of State himself agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u42	Mr Hoekstra, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u43	The following is, I think, very much in line with what Mr Backer said. A Chinese proverb says: if you bend, bend deeply. I think it is crystal clear to all of us that many in this house and many outside this house would have needed this bill to be seen in the Chamber at a much earlier stage. I think it's okay if the Secretary of State just admits it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u44	Not for nothing, I also say to Mr Hoekstra, I would have liked to present all the legislation from the coalition agreement very quickly. This law, too; really. Because I believe with the members of the Chamber that the sooner you, even formally, give clarity to citizens, the better. I think I can shake Mr Hoekstra's hand with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u45	Mr Reuten, very briefly, if it is on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u46	Yeah, at this point. Now it's about the adjective. Between "not pretty" and "unacceptable" there is a whole zipper. I don't want to talk about that right now. However, I would like to talk about the fact that what is 'not acceptable to and from' ends up with the 1.5 million over 65s. The question is whether that is acceptable. Something's gone wrong, not nice. That's what we're saying. Too bad for you, but that's how it's gonna happen. The question is whether we should want to do so, knowing that it was 'not nice to and so on'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u47	This is really going a little too far in the other direction, because nothing went wrong. If we could have presented this legislation here earlier, it would have been better, but nothing has gone wrong. I have said, together with Mr Hoekstra, for a reason: if you look at what is always going on in the broad context of this type of introduction period, then the Council of State has not made any comments on this either. So formally, I'd almost say, we're right in the loop. But it would have been even nicer there I would have been very honest and open if the bill had been able to pass this Chamber before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u48	I cannot speak on behalf of my fellow Members, of course, but I suspect that the annoyance of the Chamber lies in the fact that it is a bill consisting of only six pages and that it is a repetition exercise of the 2012 bill. That's why there's a big gap between expectation and reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u49	Yes, and from that I have said, once again in all equestrianism, that it is not so much in the scope of the bill as in the political constellation of the contemporary situation. That is what I have said in the House of Representatives and I am doing it again here. Yeah, that's me again. I come to my last block with a number of different questions from the various spokesmen. Mrs De Boer would like to confirm that the financial effects for people with benefits are not so bad because the benefit is continuing. As part of the first increase in the AOW age in 2013, all social security schemes have been adapted. Since then, all schemes have referred to the age of AOW as defined in the General Old Age Law. With this dynamic reference, all these schemes always refer to the right AOW age. In the event of a change in age, therefore, there is no need to change the arrangements. All social security schemes thus continue until the new, increased AOW age. Mr. Backer of D66 asked a question about the government as an employer, which is of course also a stakeholder. This has also been cut in the Lower House, as it is called. As an employer, the government is often party to redundancy schemes. I understand Mr Backer's question in such a way that he sees a role for the public authorities in the so-called FLO arrangements. In many public sectors, FLO schemes have already been replaced by schemes which make use of life-long leave and old-age pensions based on freedom of choice and individual agreements. In the Empire, negotiations are still ongoing for a number of clusters, for example in the prison system. A new scheme has now been agreed, with the duration of the benefit depending on age. People can then decide for themselves when it enters, so that they can prevent an AOW hole. The problem of the AOW-hole also plays a role in the defense. These include both civilian and military personnel. The power stations and Defense as employers are in agreement with each other. They consider it a joint responsibility to provide for these groups within the total working conditions-related budgets. That provision will be implemented by 1 October 2015 at the latest. Furthermore there are the firefighters and the ambulance staff; I'm going to finish it all for a while, because I think this is good for the Acts to color again. It is important for them that the FLO schemes for people born after 1949 were abolished on 1 January 2006. They have been replaced by arrangements whereby people use life-long leave on the basis of freedom of choice. The adaptation of all these arrangements, in the Empire, as in the Defence Department, and in municipalities, is the subject of collective bargaining between employers and employees. So it comes on the table every time, but it is very good that Mr Backer has paid attention to it. Moreover, for government employees, the bridging regime can of course apply if they are active in the lowest wage scales. Mr Backer asked another question, namely: how are the starting dates? The entry into force does not require a separate decision on entry into force after acceptance by the Upper Chamber. If the First Chamber can agree, the signature by the King and the publication will take place as soon as possible. Mrs De Boer van GroenLinks has asked a very specific question, if I may say so. They involved someone with a small pension who is married to a non-earning partner. Can it then, in my words, be that those who, through the income adjustment of the bridging scheme, have little benefit from that scheme? Ms De Boer asked for the limit for single and married persons to be set at €1,131, so that the married person with a non-income partner could be helped. I would not accept that proposal. However, I think that Mrs De Boer is right to draw attention to this very specific group. If the two of us had to live from €800 in the month, that would of course be far below the limit of what we think is normal here in the Netherlands. The partner could then join the municipality for a benefit. If the person in question applies for the AOW, I think that the SVB should also really pay attention to the fact that the partner has no income and that the person applying for the AOW then falls under the income limit. It should therefore be informed by the SVB that the partner can go to the municipality for additional resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u50	That's what it's like now. Of course, these people can apply under the Participation Act because they are below the minimum. I am referring more to the person who was in retirement or pre-retirement and was not subject to the Participation Act because that person was just at the minimum and the person with an AOW plus a very small pension who was also just at that minimum. For the period of the income gap, people should then be entitled to the Participation Act. I think the idea of this bridging arrangement is that we want to prevent it. We want to prevent people from falling into an income gap where they have to temporarily go to welfare. Apart from the fact that this is practically all a fuss, it also affects people's sense of honour, namely that after a very active life for the last few months before their retirement, they have to go to welfare. It doesn't make any difference for the public authorities whether it's a municipality or a government or whether that benefit is paid out of that bridging scheme or from the assistance. So my appeal would be: make sure that people who, under this law, would have to go to welfare for the period between their retirement or pre-retirement and their AOW because the border is being shifted, do not have to go to assistance and find a solution for these people through the bridging scheme. I mentioned a suggestion for it. It doesn't have to be the solution, but actually my appeal to the Secretary of State is: find a solution for those people so that they don't have to go to welfare. I think we can do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u51	This is a sympathetic appeal to the people concerned. Edoch, within the bridging arrangement, I don't see the solution there immediately. I use my second term to zoom in on that, but my hand-out is already that I think it is very important that when people apply for the bridging arrangement at SVB, they get a clear insight from the SVB into what might be related matters. That is not the case now. I think this is very important to those people. That would be my hand to Mrs. De Boer. Mr Beckers of the VVD has asked a question about the six-month preparatory period. I think I've said enough about that. Mr Beckers also asked a question about the variabilisation of supplementary pensions. I understand by now that he actually means the flexibilisation of the AOW. The Minister for Social Affairs has recently sent a letter to the Chamber on this matter. I will see to it that Mr Beckers receives that letter. If that letter is not known to the First Chamber, then that letter will of course come here as well. The purpose of that letter is that the cabinet does not currently opt for the flexibility of the AOW. Mr Nagel and Mr Postema made an appeal to the cabinet not to come up with new plans around the AOW age after this bill on speeding up the increase in the AOW age. It is not the intention of the cabinet to come up with new plans around this bill and around the AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u52	We now have the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u53	Mr President, I need a few minutes' suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u54	Then I shall suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. If we cross the battlefield, there are three things we think we should mark. Firstly, when you listen to the debate, there seems to be relatively broad support for the main line of the bill. Secondly, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the additional information she has made available. Moreover, the question remains how big this group is. This is partly reparable, but partly not anymore. That's how honest we have to be. That's why that's by definition not pretty. And that, by definition, means a scratch on this proposal. Everyone will have to take that into account in the final weighing-up of this proposal. Thirdly, I would like to highlight a striking element of the debate, namely the fact that Mr Reuten said that the Secretary of State informed the Chamber incompletely and thus wrongly. We all know that the "State Secretary's Manual, Chapter 1" states that this is a political mortal sin. I think that this should apply: who claims, proves. The farther the artillery is that you bet, the bigger the burden you load on yourself to prove it and to make it substantial. This is not only relevant for Mr Reuten himself and for the SP Group, but that is also particularly relevant for the Chamber as a whole. After all, if this were the case, it would be a matter for all of us. I would therefore like to invite Mr Reuten either to be sufficiently substantial in the second term or to withdraw his qualification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u56	Mr. Chairman. I will do what Mr Hoekstra asks at the end. The point is whether some of the benefits of the bill are lost by additional benefits from municipalities, by displacement. The Secretary of State denies that. I am tabling a motion on this point which should not be a point for the Secretary of State if she is right. I have not had time to pass my motion, but I assume there will be support, at least for its submission. The President shall: The following motion was tabled by Mr Reuten: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not excluded that the present legislative proposal will lead to the elimination of potential employment for the unemployed and that such displacement will lead to additional welfare payments by municipalities;]] [[asks the government to compensate the municipalities in so far as this displacement occurs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34083-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u57	I dispute the urgency of the bill. I turned that in this morning. I note that a large number of spokesmen have indicated that the situation is not 'fine'. You can give them even stronger qualifications. Nevertheless, the problems are placed on the board of the 1.5 million people with no income for x-months. My group does not think that this is acceptable. It could have been acceptable if they had known in good time. But they don't know it in time, so we're rolling the problem into that group while, when I look at the economic situation, the urgency is definitely not there that was there three, two and a year ago. I think you should see the case in this relationship and look at the group in question in this relationship. So far, it seems that a majority does not wish to do so. Then there is the question of the displacement of work for the current unemployed. I shall now turn to what Mr Hoekstra has asked me to do. I have provided a table for my text this morning, on p. 4. The Secretary of State says that most 65-plussers will have work or find work, and that they will continue to work. If most will continue to work, I'll take her word for her word, and 75% of the benefits of the bill will fade. If that's much less, I'll look at the table that was distributed this morning, and you come up with that 16% with labour alone, among other things, and there's another group with work and retirement, about 35% of the benefits are lost. What I blame the Secretary of State is that she has taken away the benefits of the 65-plussers from the affected group - that is the 1.6 billion that we find over and over again - but that in no way has she taken away the additional benefits resulting from displacement in municipalities. That is why I say that both the Lower House and the Upper House have been misinformed or, if you prefer to hear another word, we were talking about "not nice"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Secretary of State has occasionally indicated in the documents that there will be a certain degree of leakage, but she has never wanted to quantify it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u58	I hear lecturers now use different words. I think this is a credit to him, because we all know what the first use of words means and what a "satisfying information" or "unsatisfying" in a different context means. So thank you for that. What strikes me about the use of words is that Mr Reuten is actually very nuanced in his motion. He then says something like "if it turns out to be the case that the displacement of potential employment occurs" and "if this displacement occurs, we ask the State Secretary to compensate the municipalities for this." I think that a phrase that is actually very closely in line with the answer given by the Secretary of State, namely that displacement as such cannot be ruled out, but that it will not be easy to relate that one-on-one to the increase in the AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u59	I am pleased that the PvdA Group can support my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u60	I too am pleased that Mr Reuten is making some kind of retreating moves. I also think that this would be justified if we were to reject the words which the Secretary of State might have made himself guilty of, in Mr Reuten's view. I believe that the 75% referred to by Mr Reuten is on him. That's an opinion, but not a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u61	This 75% is based on the words of the Secretary of State, namely that most older people will continue to work up to the increased AOW age. Most of them are 51%, but I kept it at 50%. Then 75% of the benefits of the bill disappear. The first column concerns the words of the Secretary of State. In fact, the same applies to the second, but with a slightly different level of benefit. I predict what a prophecy is worth, too, that it will be in the order of 70%. I continue to regret the fact that the Secretary of State has brought in zero euros for this. There is quite a bit of light between zero euros and my expectation that it will be in the order of one and a half billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u62	There's a difference. Mr. Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u63	I was almost at the end of my question to Mr Reuten when he started with his answer as an enthusiastic, not so young dog. That 50% plus 1%, most of them, is indeed the responsibility of the Secretary of State. I believe that the result, the conclusion on that 75%, is indeed borne by Mr Reuten. The profit of this debate is that Mr Reuten has now come up with the term 'find regret' rather than 'informed wrongly'. That seems to me to be an essential distinction which is important to mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u64	I don't think adjectives are so important. We just had a little debate with Senator Backer on what lies between not beautiful and unacceptable. Whether you think that the Secretary of State has informed us moderately, or that it is not nice how she has informed us, or that you find that unacceptable, it is about the matter and not about the adjectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u65	The last thought I would like to share with Mr Reuten is that it is good, in the hypothetical case that there will ever again be a ruler of SP house, to go through with him or her whether it is purely adjectives or whether there must be some charge. But that moment is still hidden in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u66	We'll talk later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u67	That also depends on May 28th. For the assessment of Mr Reuten's motion, I think it is important to know, apart from all adjectives, whether the SP Group considers it essential whether it is 2.9, 2.3 or 1.3. In the end, Mr Reuten does not regard the budgetary yield as decisive, but rather the injustice it is doing. He doesn't think that's appropriate. He did not consider the transitional issue appropriate. Mr Reuten, when I listen to him like that, is not in favour of the proposal. It is interesting for the Acts and statistics to know whether the budget is correct or whether more has been leaked out than we thought. However, is this relevant to the position of the SP? If it were otherwise, would Mr Reuten consider supporting the proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u68	That's an excellent question. I indicated this morning that two groups were affected by the bill, the 65-plussers concerned and the current unemployed. I believe that this Chamber and the government should do everything in their power to support this group, which has been hit hardest by the crisis, more heavily than anyone else. We must do everything we can to get this group of unemployed people to work. This bill does the opposite. In some cases, the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, acknowledges that she has also written that there is repression, but she does not want to quantify it. There are two groups that are severely affected, and that is what is most relevant. The money thing isn't really that... As far as the cents are relevant, and for some of you, those cents are relevant... Well, no, I take that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u69	Short, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u70	Those pennies are relevant to me, too, but they only come in second place. I expect that we will see that the estimated benefits of the legislative proposal will not, to a large extent, be there because of the additional welfare payments to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u71	One more question, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u72	I consider the remark made by the financial spokesman of the SP that the pennies do not matter as a slip of the tongue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u73	No, people come first and then the pennies come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u74	I fully agree with you. Then your answer is that the budgetary relevance of this debate is less decisive or not decisive for the position of the SP, because you think that two groups are being affected and that everything must be put to good use. By the way, I share that view, but the conclusion is probably different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u75	These two groups are affected, while on the other hand there is currently no urgency in government finances. That's the perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u76	Proceed with your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u77	Actually, I'd like to leave it at that, except for one thing. I found it interesting to hear from the Secretary of State that the Council of State had no objection and that it would be okay. Perhaps it would be advisable, at a forthcoming cabinet meeting in which she is present, to tell the other members of the government that the cabinet is taking over what we are doing, otherwise it will take over the opinions of the Council of State. That makes a lot of difference for a number of legislative proposals, I think. I'd like her to respond to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u78	I have a question, including the weighting of the motion tabled by Mr Reuten. In the motion, the government is asked to compensate the municipalities for "insofar as this displacement occurs." How does Mr Reuten propose that this be measured? We have quite a high level of unemployment. Luckily, it's falling down. Maybe she'll drop faster or less quickly. People are joining, people are coming out. Participation is constantly changing in a wide range of target groups. How does Mr Reuten intend to measure this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u79	I think that's a very good question. If this motion is accepted here and the government is going to implement it, then there can be some inventiveness in the municipalities and in the municipal organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u80	Then I'll feel sorry for the congregations. After all, they have to think about it. If a bus driver works a month longer, then you see the employment in that municipality increase slightly and unemployment is somewhat off, but it might have been a month more employment if they... Is this how it's gonna happen in these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u81	You have a point, of course, when you say that this is very difficult to measure, but I am concerned about the principle that the government does not place an existing problem on the board of the municipalities. I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u82	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that this is not a question of structural measures. It is a question of occasionally strengthening the rich budget, and this is not due to an unforeseen increase in life expectancy. Alternatives would have been possible. This cabinet is busy reducing the burden on the workers, not the people who are being affected again. It is an amount in the order of magnitude of the amount that this should now yield. Postponement of one year of such relief could have been an alternative, so that a certain group does not pay for it. The spread over eight years, 400 million, would also have been a possibility, but it is decided to meet a group that has already been hit by an accelerated increase. In fact, in the State Secretary's statement, it says that there are a total of one and a half million people. On top of that, perhaps the Secretary of State can say a few words about this in the second term, which has already been decided to reduce the elderly's discount next year and to abolish the elderly's allowance. To my knowledge, that same group costs €350 or even €700 in box 3, while those people are also affected in terms of the rent and the care allowance. Then they'll be hit for the umpteenth time! Can the Secretary of State consider what half a year's preparation is going to mean? It has not addressed a number of questions that have been put clearly in this Chamber, but also outside. An unreliable government, inappropriate administration. Who's getting hit? These are people who cannot save, people who were worn out, people with low education and poor health. The many letters on poignant cases that have been put forward are ignored. One point that the Secretary of State has completely ignored is that I said that Mrs Klijnsma mentioned it in her election programme as a condition that age increases are not at the expense of people who have long worked for low incomes. The letters show that this will happen. She also said that it would be a condition that it should not be at the expense of people who have become unemployed at a later age and who no longer come to work. It was also said at the time that there should be no gap between AOW age and existing pension rights. That's what's gonna happen. The election programme also stated that people should not get into assistance between the age of 65 and the age of AOW. The election programme states that the AOW may not go to 67 years until 2025. Contrary to this, the Secretary of State, once on the plush, did not reverse the increase in age, but speed it up by two years. And that was when the promise to the voter was not to do so. Does the Secretary of State still wish to comment on that? Does she want to answer the question I'm asking? Can the Secretary of State imagine that the people who voted for her and her party have seen this as a big electoral deception and that they no longer have confidence in the Hague politics? Mr. Chairman. I would now like to announce that I will be requesting a roll-call vote on this bill later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. I too am in need of a brief review of today's debate. When I look back, I see that from various sides and by various spokesmen in this Chamber very hard notes have been cracked. At the same time, I can see that the answers to the very critical points in particular have not been entirely satisfactory. The answers given dealt with matters that were already mentioned in the written explanatory memorandum. The questions raised orally have not been answered or have not been answered. I'm not surprised. It is symptomatic of all the debates we have had on pensions over the last few years. Whether it was about pensions or about the AOW, the critical sounds are always provided with very little response. This does not seem to me to be the way to gain support from the people, not even politicians, for the views expressed by the current government. What are we dealing with? I can only conclude that we are dealing with a cold, hasty and little urgent austerity. The Secretary of State has repeatedly reported that this is a cut. The austerity is deliberately carried out on a very limited group that has already been hard hit in previous stages and will still be hard hit in coming stages. I don't like that. I'd say politics is a matter of making choices. The present cabinet has an incredible talent for making the wrong choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u84	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers given. Some of these answers have actually been obtained through interruptions, but I think that, overall, a number of things have been clarified that could sometimes not or not be fully exchanged in the written preparation. It's also quite complex matter. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for sending the additional documents at the request of Mr Hoekstra. I also found myself in one of the cohorts. I'm going backwards, too. I did the math, and I noticed that it's a pretty substantial amount of money. That does not alter the fact that I agree with the idea and the principle behind the proposals. Mr Postema called on colleagues to look positively at the labour market. I'll repeat that to him. In the debate on repression, we have been very much concerned with the complexity of this issue. The Secretary of State has already pointed out that the increase in employment rates has gone much faster than we thought. I'm positive about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u85	I would like to express my surprise at Mr Backer. I don't think it's much of a choice for him to bring his own situation into the debate. I cannot look in his wallet, but I assume he is not among the Dutch who live at the minimum, who see their perspective disappear on a reasonable old age because of this bill and at the same time are in enormous financial difficulties. I believe that the examples that have gone over the table today are many and that Mr Backer should not take such a position over himself in order to adduce certain things. I think that is wrong and I would like to hear his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u86	That's a little too easy to interrupt. In fact, it is about empathy and empathy and about the debate we are having on the transitional issue, whether it is justified or not. I took a side step because I saw what cohorts it's about. It has nothing to do with it. Let me put it very clearly: what I see about myself must not be decisive for such a decision, and it is not. Perhaps it is a good thing that Mr De Lange asked me about that. It was a sidestep and not a supporting argument for my position. I come to the point made by Mr Reuten, about which we have had a debate, namely labour market displacement and the assumption that it is 75%, 50% or 45%. We don't know. However, I draw a different conclusion from him. In the motion that follows it is based on the idea of displacement. Mr. Postema pointed it out. In the operative part, the government is asked to compensate the municipalities for this. I do not think that the debate was clear on this at first reading, but it has become clear in the answer given by the Secretary of State. The system of the Municipal Fund and the I-part of it ensures that it is finally included in the payments. There's only a year's delay. So it doesn't have to be compensated, because it's already in there. If it's any different, I'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State, because I'd have to re-assess the motion. In the end, there are always problems in the discussions on transitional arrangements. Mrs De Boer has already indicated that one should eventually go to the assistance again. I find that a difficult point too. The Secretary of State said she's doing a hand-picking here, but I didn't quite understand. I felt like it was a pincracker. I would like to know what it means exactly: is it an adjustment of the OBR scheme or an appeal to the special assistance? Or is there another form that might help it to be solved? I conclude with the fact that the greater importance of the proposal means that I will propose to my group that it be positive. We will also have some internal discussion, because the problems of transition and the hardness associated with it have also been on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u87	I would ask Mr Backer to be more explicit about this. What's the greater good? Are the state finances above the groups involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u88	I understand that Mr Reuten is making that contradiction, because it is a very easy point to make, but I would like to take a look back at my first speech. At that time I explained that the great reproach that is being made today, which is caused by the transitions and the harshness problems that people had not expected, was partly due to the fact that we did not start adapting the schemes in time to the ageing population and the changing population structure. Since 2006, my own political party has advocated this. We are now doing what we have always said we want to do, and that is what we think is more important. Yes, there has been a budgetary saving. There was an urgency for that and there's nothing wrong with that. It has led us to a good course of government finances, and it will continue to be so. To ask now what is decisive: the original idea is decisive. We will have to make adjustments in the welfare state in order to maintain prosperity and justice for all in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. In my second term, I would like to address two things. First of all, I would like to comment briefly on the employment aspects, also in response to what Mr Postema said to me. Of course, we should not look at these employment aspects alone and especially not in financial terms alone. It is precisely what the social impact on employment is about. Then the question is what signal do we send by prescribing to people over 65 years of age that they have to work longer. Those people have been counting on stopping while others are desperate for work. I am not talking about numbers, figures or the concept of "replacement," but about the signal we are sending. It's not about forcing people to stop working sooner. We've dealt with a bill here before that makes it possible to work longer, but that's just another story. I am really concerned with the signal we are sending and with the question of whether this is the right signal at this time. I hope Mr Postema understands that. I am pleased that the Secretary of State confirms that the effects will be limited for a large number of people. Some people need to work longer, which can be difficult for people in particularly heavy occupations. People who already have benefits keep that benefit. The effects are the most serious for people who are now in an early retirement or pre-retirement scheme and who have to deal with an income gap. Unlike Mr Nagel, who said that the lowest-paid people in particular are affected, I think that the biggest financial effects lie with the higher-income people who, because they receive more than 300% WML, are not eligible for the bridging scheme. The majority of people with a minimum income will be eligible for this bridging scheme. I'm very happy about that. We are very pleased that this bridging arrangement has now been extended to cover the whole hole. In my contribution I drew attention to a group with a minimum income which I do not think is fully eligible for the bridging scheme, namely the people I have just explained, so I am not going to do that again with a non-earning partner. Those people have to fall back on welfare, which I really don't think is right. I don't think that's the idea either. The Secretary of State said in the first term that the bridging scheme aims to provide provision for those who are already unemployed or pre-retirement and themselves do not have sufficient resources to bridge the income gap as a result of the accelerated increase in the AOW age. Those are these people, and for that we want a bridging arrangement. Mr Backer spoke of a pincrew. I'm happy about that. I look forward to a possible addition in the second term. We think this is so important that, in advance, I would like to table a motion. The President shall: Mr De Boer, Mr Thissen, Mr De Lange, Mr Reuten and Mr Nagel proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas:]] [[the purpose of the bridging scheme is to provide provision for people who are already unemployed or pre-retirement and who themselves have insufficient resources to bridge the income gap resulting from the accelerated increase in the AOW age;]] [[that people who, while having a partner, have an income from retirement or benefit of more than €731,64 gross per month are not eligible for the OBR, even if their partner has no income;]] [[that this means that not everyone with insufficient resources to bridge the income gap can claim the OBR now that two people with a combined income between €731 and €1,132 gross can be expected to bridge their income gap;]] [[that it is undesirable for people to fall back on the Act of Participation to bridge the period between their retirement or pre-retirement;]] [[calls on the government to ensure, by adjusting the OBR or otherwise, that people do not have to rely on the Participation Act to bridge the income gap between VRS or pre-retirement and AOW,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34083-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u90	I think the motion appeals to a broader living feeling. However, I would like to hear from Mrs De Boer exactly how she sees the implementation of the motion. What could that be? I find that complicated. Perhaps we should also put that question to the Secretary of State. But if it is not an existing arrangement and therefore not the assistance, I understand the connotation that Mrs De Boer has outlined very well. What should it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u91	My preference would be to see if you could adjust the bridging arrangement so that this group is included, because then you don't have to shape anything new. That should be possible, because it is essentially an adjustment of the limit of €731.64. If you add a rule to that if "unless the partner has no income," you could change the scheme. It's a breach of the system. I understand that may be annoying, but it's not impossible to adapt it to the bridging arrangement. Otherwise, I would prefer to have a solution run through the SVB, so that people do not have to go to their congregation again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u92	I can imagine that by itself. I do not want to think too much on behalf of the Secretary of State, but I can imagine that this will be relatively expensive and complicated. But it sounds like Mrs De Boer wants to bet on the first. So that's how we need to interpret her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u93	Yeah, that would be my bet. If the Secretary of State wants an arrangement, albeit on a route other than the bridging arrangement, I don't want to rule that out. Hence my broader wording.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u94	Mr. Chairman. The fundamental questions raised in the debate this afternoon were not addressed by the Secretary of State. I would like to mention just one example of many: in the first period I indicated that the relationship with supplementary pensions was completely excluded. The outlook for this is in the most optimistic scenario that, after 30 years of construction, the average figure is 40% of the last wage. In the case of lagging indexation, as has been the case for a decade, this percentage is even lower. The average build-up of those 30 years has also been declining for a longer time. The Flex Act, which has already failed in advance, will certainly not contribute to any form of regular pension building. All this leads to a complete breakdown of the entire pension building. I fear that the Secretary of State will not reply to this in the second term, but I still wanted to say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers we have received. In particular, her explanation of the reasons for this and the considerations she has made between budgetary aspects and legal certainty aspects was clear. Then we got a good financial overview of the various categories. We've talked extensively about displacement. This has also happened in the Lower House. On this subject, we have been repeated, and I regret that. I tried to stay out as much as I could. However, this displacement is an issue and if, after half a day of discussion in the House of Representatives and half a day of discussion in this Chamber, my group is inclined to accept it. I cannot establish a direct relationship between the increase in the AOW age and therefore the longer period of service and the absence of employment. We have a VERY past behind us, and I can remember that the studies have finally shown that the VERY possibility has not been proven to have led to jobs for younger people. The same thing is happening here. We do not seem to be able to make it clear enough that the employer who employs people who continue to work until their 67th year of life may, when they retire, be thinking of entirely different functions, which may already have been filled out, and which no longer fills out the obsolete functions of the 67-year-olds at all. In short, a substantive relationship between employment and unemployment on the one hand and the completion of employment by the "expanded AOW's" on the other is not clear. I would therefore suggest that we accept that ambiguity. I have another question in this term to the Secretary of State. In the first term, I indicated that the VVD Group would like the Secretary of State's undertaking to do everything possible to inform people as quickly as possible about what awaits them at the age of AOW. I'm looking at the SVB. We can estimate the development of life expectancy. The CBS will provide information on this and that information has a certain hardness. However, it seems important to me that the Social Insurance Bank should come to the citizen as soon as possible with information from the CBS on life expectancy and its translation by the CPB and that it should not wait until five years before the AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u96	Thank you very much, Mr Beckers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u97	Mr President, I realise that these are my last words in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u98	No, Mr Beckers, Mr Reuten is going to ask you a few more questions. You will be brief, Mr Reuten!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u99	I always keep it short. In the first term, Mr Beckers had a lot of reservations about the speed, the time that people do not have to prepare, and so on. Do I understand that the Secretary of State has given the VVD Group so much information that she didn't have at first that she doesn't think that point is so important anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u100	I have been briefed by the Secretary of State on the deadlines. I stand by the criticism we expressed in the first term. I think it's a concern. I also realize that there is no other way to go. For this reason, I strongly urge the future to ensure that this information gets to the citizen as soon as possible. The Secretary of State has replied that this occurs in the group which is now being extended for a month. That is the criterion on which the Central Appeals Council once stated that the one-month period is reasonable. Or is that a six-month extension? You can argue whether for an extension of more than one month I gave an example with a four-month extension of a period of one and a half years is sufficient preparation. It remains an emotional and sensitive subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u101	According to Mr Beckers, the group is badly hit. He also says there's no other way. He would be better off voting against the bill, because that would spare this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u102	I will not advise my group on that. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u103	Thank you very much, Mr Beckers. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who can answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u104	Mr. Chairman. I will visit all the spokesmen, starting with Mr Hoekstra. As in his first term, he said in second term to recognize that there is a group of people who will sit in the door with their fingers and where they cannot always be repaired. That is true, but that is why I am all the more pleased with the fact that we have a bridging arrangement that has been extended in the Lower House thanks to the members Heerma and Klaver. I have also taken note of the debate between Mr Hoekstra and Mr Reuten on information to the Chamber. Mr Reuten has tabled a motion. In my first term, I have already said quite a few words about this, but it is good to say in the second term that we have, of course, asked the CPB to look very empirically at whether there is interaction between the fact that older people are working longer and the expectation that as a result more young people would end up in the assistance. The CPB cannot provide that empirical evidence, and that is why we have not, of course, increased it in the 1.7 billion. However, in the first period, I also said something else in reply to Mr Backer's questions. The motion indeed asks the government to compensate municipalities. That's got some ifs and buts. I agree with that, and Mr Postma has underlined this in the event of interruption. Of course, I have said for a reason that the method of the I-part towards municipalities is always based on that. If there are more people in the welfare system, however sad and for whatever reason, then municipalities will always be updated. We have said enough about this in the first period. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u105	After this information from the Secretary of State, I withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u106	As the motion for a resolution (, letter) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u107	I would like to comment on Mr Reuten's appeal to the members of the cabinet to say that the opinions of the Council of State are always worthy of consideration, to say it in my words. This member of the cabinet agrees with Mr Reuten at least. I'm taking the Council of State pretty seriously. Edoch, a man doesn't always have to agree with everything. With this bill, the opinion was blank. Mr Nagel asked me to consider what measures would be envisaged for older people, in the broad sense of the word, including in the context of the budgetary procedure. It will not surprise Mr Nagel that I have to say that this will be dealt with in the context of the budget, including in this Chamber. There's nothing I can add to that or take it off. I would like to point out that not only the members of this Chamber have had letters, but also me, from Dutch citizens who have given insight into what it means for them that the age of AOW is now being accelerated. That is why I think it is so essential that we have this bridging arrangement. This keeps people up to 200% of the minimum wage and cohabitants up to 300% of the minimum wage fortunately out of the wind. I have also listened to Mr De Lange. I understand he's not happy with the answer. He's right to say that making political choices is. Our choices are not synchronised, I have to say. Mr Backer zoomed in on the I part once more. He also supported Mrs De Boer's pincrew. That brings me to Mrs De Boer's motion. At first reading, I said that the thrust of the motion was very sympathetic. I must, however, be careful that we make something on the basis of the motion, in the sense of an adjustment of the bridging arrangement or otherwise. The motion calls on the government to prevent people from having to invoke the Participation Act. I understand very well which group Mrs De Boer is aiming for. I had already put out my pinkie, if not my hand, but I would like it to be well communicated by the Social Insurance Bank on how people can do that. Mrs De Boer takes a step further in her motion and asks that people should not be called upon to provide assistance in this case. If I can read the motion in such a way that I do not have a result obligation but I am committed to making something up, then I would like to come back to this. I cannot guarantee that I will be able to settle anything for this group in the legislation, but I would like to accommodate the Chamber in that. Even if I can't, I'll come back to that, so I can't make a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u108	For the sake of clarity, is it true we're talking about two different things? If I understand correctly, we are talking, on the one hand, about the fact that the Secretary of State agrees with us that there is a need for a clear communication at the point of contact on what the possibilities are and, possibly, that she will take care of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u109	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u110	That is one thing, but the Secretary of State adds something to it, namely the effort that Mrs De Boer's motion aims to make. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u111	Yes, I made it very clear and clear that it is a real commitment. If, as a result, I have to say that this is so complicated within the legislation that we should not want to do so, then it will remain the pinkie, in the sense of the SVB's communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u112	That's clear. I can also imagine that from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u113	Thank you. That is how I would like to deal with Mrs De Boer's motion. I suppose I'll hear from her how she feels about that. Mr Van Strien has called for attention to be paid to the second pillar. I take note of this in this context. I am not going to zoom in on that, because that would take a lot of time. Last but not least, Mr Beckers. He says it is extremely important for the Social Insurance Bank to provide the right information, including in the context of people's life expectancy. We agreed that in 2017 the Social Insurance Bank will tell us very clearly how the flag will be in 2022. That does not alter the fact that views are already outlined on the website of the Social Insurance Bank, without it being poured into concrete, because that cannot be done. If I may translate Mr Beckers' comment in this way, I will go to the Social Insurance Bank with this message.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-eerstekamer-10.u114	I'm here to deal with the bill. A roll-call vote has now been requested on the legislative proposal. Next Tuesday, May 26th, Provincial States must elect the First Chamber. There are some members in this Chamber who are also members of the Provincial States. Moreover, I understand from the Secretary of State that there is no pressing reason to vote next week. I therefore propose that the roll-call vote be taken on Tuesday, 2 June, in 14 days' time. That is the last meeting of this Chamber in this House. That is a special event. Then Mr Beckers will be able to speak one last word.
