ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. We know that the Internet is a blessing for a lot of things, for example through a fast, efficient and easy way of working, but unfortunately there are also examples of fraud and fraud. This also happens a lot easier through the internet, and criminals spin good yarn on it. I mention a false identity to cheat people, the example of today's NOS, and the fake websites where people can't order and also pay products that are then out of the sky and where you don't seem to have purchased a product at all. And then, of course, there is dating fraud, one of the most poignant examples of Internet fraud that I know, which is very damaging to people when faced and dealt with. The problem is known longer. We have raised it several times here in the Chamber from different groups. Still, it hasn't been solved. How is that possible? In my view, there are three solutions: better cooperation, more cooperation and faster cooperation. Does the Minister share this vision and what will he do to speed it up? According to the Fraud Helpdesk, the specialist, the authority, I can say, in the field of the fight against fraud in the Netherlands and helping people who have been victims of all kinds of fraud, the problem is that government and business are still not sufficiently working together. Moreover, companies too often fail to respond to citizens' requests. According to the Fraud Help Desk, therefore, a watchdog is needed to monitor the fight against fraud. I repeat my previous plea: we need a fraud authority with perseverance in this country. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. On this occasion, I would also like to urge the Chamber to say that it wants a fraud authority. Developments are fast, the criminals are good at it, but the citizens are the victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Gesthuizen is right to say that the Internet is a blessing for many people, day in and day out, but it is undeniable that the Internet will now and without doubt prove to be a blessing for all kinds of crime in the future. That is already the case and will certainly be the case in the future. This is something that the police, the judiciary and the public prosecutor are aware of and they are also actively working on in their cooperation. This is the case, among other things, in the review of the National Police, where this is one of the themes. Mrs Gesthuizen rightly says that dating fraud is also a major problem. Yesterday, I discussed this extensively with the whole dating industry, including with the Fraud Help Desk. The Fraud Helpdesk also plays a crucial role in this area, but also in institutions such as the National Intelligence Point Internet scam and, as far as identity fraud is concerned in the case of the NIS, the Central Intelligence Point Identity fraud and errors of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom relations, which also play a role in the personal assistance of victims. Internet fraud in all its forms and forms is something that is being actively pursued. We are very aware that much more work will have to be done in the coming years. I share Mrs Gesthuizen's analysis of the need for better, more and faster cooperation. On this point, I also support the case of the Fraud Help Desk. Mrs Gesthuizen asked if I could just mention when it was resolved, but I have to be realistic on this point. We are only at the beginning of the problem of fraud and crime via the Internet. That is why we have the cybercrime institute. However, we are very aware that we must work hard on it. The cabinet has repeatedly said that it does not think a fraud authority, which Mrs Gesthuizen asked for, is a good idea. That is where we have the Anti-Fraud Commission for which I am the coordinating minister, with which we have already undertaken and will continue to do a great deal of work to tackle fraud in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u3	If it were so beautiful that the ministerial committee could handle all this, we would not be here. It's really not like I got this this morning, when I woke up and switched my phone on, for the first time on my retina. No, this is a problem that we have known for years and which we all think deserves much more priority. That is why there are several initiatives from the Chamber and that is why we ask the Minister every time on this point. If the Minister is working with the sector on fine plans, he also said that he has spoken professionally with the dating agencies, where is the implementation of the plans that the Minister is now drawing up? Who has perseverance in this area now? Is the Minister going to do all this personally? Is the Minister going to tell organizations like this to come and report to him every week? I do not see that happening, because this minister is very busy with the National Police, the collective agreement for agents and many other matters. Knowledge and expertise are available at the Fraud Help Desk, at the Public Prosecutor's Office and at the police. The only thing these organisations indicate is that they need to work much better together. I would love it if we could pool the knowledge and expertise that we do have in this country, relieve the Minister a little of the burden and say: there is simply a good example in the field of cybercrime, where we have the NCSC also a fraud authority with perseverance, which ensures that this does not disappear at the bottom of the pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u4	Much of the work described by Mrs Gesthuizen has, of course, been done by the citizens' initiative 1Government. A week and a half ago I worked on this with Mayor Van der Laan for an entire evening, in combination with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and a lot of representatives of departments. 1Government also asked whether a fraud authority could be set up. Then we said: listen, the best authorities we have in the Netherlands, with perseverance, are the ministers themselves. As a coordinating minister, I have therefore taken on the task, or at least my predecessor has done so to point this out. That is and remains a wise idea. Cooperation between the banks, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office has certainly been stepped up, including in relation to the handling of internal summits. Yesterday's meeting on dating fraud covered that aspect of the banks, but also the aspect of notice and takedown of rogue dating sites that were really only created to abuse gullible people. We are going to take concrete steps in this area together with the industry, precisely because we are well aware that much more is needed to be able to act effectively. Mrs van Gesthuizen can rest assured that I will draw the attention of the banks to their responsibility in this context. By the way, the Ministry of BZK has already actively arrested identity fraud, with a number of apps, but also with the Central Reporting Point Identity fraud and errors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u5	This is a pity, because we see that we have known the problems for some time and that we are not able to solve them well enough. Moreover, wherever you go, at any symposium or meeting with experts, from the field of police and justice, but also from the business community, there is a constant call for them to cooperate better. I sincerely regret that the Minister is not picking up this signal, is not kneeling down and does not recognise that in the Netherlands we simply have to have a sort of Commissioner, a fraud authority, who can ensure that fraud does not go down anymore, but is given real priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u6	I understand Mrs Gesthuizen's impatience very well. I think that's good, too. The Chamber has had that impatience for a long time. That impatience has been good and remains good, because it also gives you an incentive as a ruler to continue to tackle this issue. We do so in a variety of areas. I can give a whole list of all possible ways in which not only internet fraud but also fraud in the relationship between government, vertical fraud and also horizontal fraud are effectively tackled. There is no doubt that even better steps can be taken. Mrs Gesthuizen did not say it, but one of the tricky points is that if people do not come to the Internet Scam Contact Point and report to an individual police station, they think that this is a civil matter and that there is no need to report it. These are typical steps which, as a minister, I think we should go through with strength on these points. I will remind the police that it is essential to press charges. Also to be able to move banks, for example, to close bank accounts and that sort of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-2.u7	Thank you for your answers. You may stay for a while, because the following questions are also addressed to you.
