ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. As leaky as a sieve, that's the extra-security facility in Vught. There are two ironsaws in the soles of a life-threatening prisoner, hundreds of suicide pills in the cell of a life-long punished person, who then, of course, committed suicide with those pills, and people who can enter without ID and without control. Of course, it cannot be true that this kind of stuff is smuggled into the most secure prison in the Netherlands, where there are the most dangerous prisoners and terrorists. Vught can and must not be a smuggling paradise. If these incidents have really occurred, the prison in Vught has a major security problem. Not only does she have a security problem, but there is also unrest among the prison guards in Vught. This morning De Telegraaf headlined: "Staff ebi despair near." There would be a crisis of authority within the establishment and the director would be accused of dictatorial rule. Guardians sit at home sick and they talk about a cover-up culture. All in all, those are ingredients for a toxic cocktail with serious risks to safety. The D66 group wants to know what's going on in the extra-security facility in Vught. What exactly goes wrong with the heavy security and the visitation? I have three questions. Are the facts true? Firstly, I am referring to the smuggling of iron saws by shoe soles, secondly to the smuggling in of pills that allow suicide and thirdly to the crisis of authority between the guards and the management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Schouw commented on a number of newspaper reports on the extra-security facility in Vught. He is right to ask me what this is true. I will go through the points he has mentioned one by one. First of all, he asked if iron saws were smuggled into the Ebi in Vught. During a check, metal plates were found in shoes, as they are very often in shoes. I rarely look into that myself, but checks in prisons do look into it. Those metal plates are rigged with cartels. They weren't used for an escape and couldn't be used for it either. The second incident, as Mr Schouw put it, is the possible smuggling in of pills, which led to Mr Lau G's suicide. First of all, I would like to stress that it is always a defeat when suicide is committed in a penitentiary facility. In this case, it was not the smuggling of pills. This person was on medication and saved it in a long time. Of course there is control to prevent that as much as possible. However, the pills were kept in a medical device for combating apnea, as it is so beautifully called, or snoring. Because this is a fragile device, it cannot be controlled from the inside. That made it possible to collect and take very large amounts of medication in a very long time. That led to the suicide. Finally, I come to the question of the crisis of authority which was written in the newspaper. That message is from such a recent date that it's still under investigation. I cannot give a substantive opinion on this at the moment. A signal about a crisis of authority is serious. I therefore believe that it requires a careful examination.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and to conclude the points that have been raised in the media and which I have also raised here. At the risk that we are going to play a word game here about the first point: metal plates in shoe soles with cartels on, of course, are very similar to a hacksaw, as the media described. Perhaps it is very difficult to see something through with that, but of course you can kill someone else with it, so it is very dangerous. Does the Minister agree with me that a piece of iron with cartels is a lot like a hacksaw? As far as the pills are concerned, I find that the Minister says that they were not smuggled in, but have been saved in secret. It is the most secure facility in the Netherlands. Why wasn't that checked out? The crisis of authority is very recent, but between the time of publication of the newspaper and now sits about seven to eight hours. Also given the history, I assume that this minister is acting quickly and can tell us what is going on. If he can't do that now, could he send the inspection very quickly to check what's going on there and inform this Chamber about it before the end of the week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	Can you see through iron with serrated metal plates from a shoe? As a somewhat experienced do-it-yourselfer, my answer is: no. A metal saw is a completely different instrument. These pictures are also not suitable for fatally wounding someone. Mr Schouw is right in saying that we need to monitor and actually monitor the presence of medicines. I indicated that they are hidden in a medical device that is vulnerable to its nature and does not lend itself to opening and controlling. For that reason, the prisoner could have been smarter than the system, with regrettable outcome. As far as the crisis of authority is concerned, Mr Schouw refers to the speed I wish to use. I hope he will also refer to the care that I exercise in doing so. If there is a serious signal that an authority crisis in a prison is potentially serious, then lawyers would say: audi et alteram partem or hear the other side as well. I don't think you should analyze a crisis in eight hours. You really need to take your time. I assume that the Justice colleague is willing to share the outcome, but I cannot promise on his behalf that this will happen within a week. I really think you should carefully examine such a serious signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	I love a relativizing attitude very much, but sometimes it can skip into a laconic posture, a neglect or ease of mind. I'm tasting that from the Minister's answer. What we actually know is that things have been smuggled into the Netherlands in no matter what the most secure facility in the Netherlands, and that is not the first time. The Minister makes that very small. I find that incomprehensible. The alarm bells should start ringing that something must happen. I don't understand why the Minister is making it small. My group really wants to do so before the end of the week, and I hope that the Minister will be able to do so in a letter about the crisis of authority that is taking place in that heavily guarded prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think it is important that we stick to the facts. These are serious facts. We agree on this, but a hacksaw is really something other than self-adjusted cartels on a piece of metal. Saving medication yourself is serious, but it's not a question of smuggling in. For the purity of the discussion, but also in order to deal with any shortcomings, I think it is important to name exactly what is going on. As far as the crisis of authority is concerned, I would like to make a careful investigation. If that is possible within a week, there is no reason not to report on it within a week. But if that were to be used as a means of violence, I would really advise the Member of the Court of Justice to take a little more time to provide the Chamber with a complete story and possibly related measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	I've had a chance to go to work in the ebi. On the cell door there was a sign with the first letter of the objects present on the cell, for example a "b" for glasses and a "t" for a toothbrush. Those things had to get out of jail through a box before the prisoner got out. So we know now that apparently that didn't work. Mr Schouw has now raised two situations. I miss what is going to happen immediately in the Minister's reply to ensure that this can at least not happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	I have to guess what the "this" is. Providing medication and pills to prisoners will continue to happen. After this lesson, however, checks will undoubtedly take into account the fact that things are hidden, even in medical equipment. The modified iron plates in shoes were also found in an X-ray. This of course leads to extra alertness on the carrying of parts in shoes, although shoes are specifically checked. As far as the crisis of authority is concerned, I have indicated that the Member of the Court of Justice will return to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	The content of this report, as well as the coverage of it, has its effect on the staff. Under difficult circumstances, these personnel must guard a very complex group of prisoners. Will the Minister also pay particular attention to the effect this has on staff? A suicide has an impact on the staff. The inspection should not only focus on the current climate, but also on how events affect staff. Will the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	I agree that the implications for staff should also be stressed. A signal about a 'government crisis', to use that word, I take it seriously, as I have already indicated. That was also the reason why I was holding against Mr Schouw on too fast to act. I believe that all aspects should be taken into account and that the people concerned should be able to speak properly.
