ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u1	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I congratulate the initiators of GeenPeil from this place. I think I'm the first to do that. The rest of the room would have preferred not to see it happen. It is a good result and a good thing that citizens in the Netherlands can finally express their views on the European Union's desire for enlargement and the desirability of the association agreement with Ukraine. An aid package for Ukraine of 11 billion is already in place. That's 11 billion taxpayers' money. The European train is going on and on. In Brussels they want more and more. Brussels wants more Europe, more Member States, more powers, more control, more of our billions and more asylum seekers. However, the citizens of this country are not asked for anything. Many citizens want less. Less Europe. It is high time we whistled back the urophiles in Brussels before it was too late and forgiven our entire country. We can do that with a referendum, and that is a good thing. Every year, the Netherlands can transfer some 8 billion to Brussels. 8 billion a year! What could we have done with this money for our older people, our jobs, our purchasing power and our economy? The European Union is an ordinary redistribution operation. The Netherlands provides billions of wealth to weaker Eastern and Southern European countries. Greece receives more than 5.5 billion each year. Poland is completely bacon-buyer. That gets 12 billion net! The flag was also issued in Romania in 2007 when the country was admitted to the EU. It can add 5.5 billion to its account every year. That's good. You don't have to do anything for it; free money. In fact, these countries do not even have to justify how they spend that money, our money. Soon Ukraine will join us. As if it is not enough, emergency funds are also ready for some extra billions. Greece alone has already received over 300 billion from an emergency fund. We all know that the Greeks can never repay it. Portugal, Spain, Ireland and Cyprus also received billions of emergency aid. It is high time to oppose this transfer union. I'll be on the 2016 Millions Note. It was supposed to be a sunny party budget. After the acid comes sweet, it was adage of the cabinet. However, it was unnecessarily acidic and the sweet tastes bitter. Over the past three years, the cabinet has put too much pressure on the brakes, making the crisis worse rather than lightened. Everything had to be done: pensions, the WW, dismissal rights, care for the elderly, study funding and the housing market. Everything was broken down or shattered in record time. Never washed a good crisis, one must have thought in box K. The fact that 150,000 people lost their jobs and 25,000 companies could close their doors was a pity, but unfortunately. Now that things are getting a little better economically, the cabinet wants to collect the credits. However, housing is not attracted by this cabinet and its reforms, but due to the catch-up demand, the low prices... prices have fallen by 20% thanks to the cabinet..... and the historically low mortgage interest rate. Consumption is attracted by a slight recovery in the housing market. Purchasing power is increasing as we pay lower pension contributions. As a result, we have a little more left in our wallet, but that we pay lower pension contributions, is because the cabinet has severely lost its pension structure. Exports are picking up due to the low euro and business investment is increasing due to higher profit margins due to the low oil price. The economy recovers not thanks to, but despite the cabinet. The Netherlands is slowly recovering from three years of Rutte II, but thanks to external factors such as low interest rates, a weak euro and cheap oil, the economy is recovering. These factors determine economic growth for 75%. 1.5% of this year's 2% economic growth is therefore explained by these external factors. I don't want to spoil the party, though. The cabinet spends a lot of time with gifts, as well-suited to the mischief. However, further analysis shows that many of these gifts are thick cigars from their own box. A tax relief of 5 billion is of course very nice, but the charges were raised by 15 billion earlier. Extra money for daily spending................................................................................................................................................................ The extra money, 16 million, for the child-related budget is beautiful, but rather there is considerable, for almost 1 billion, cut into the child schemes. We are now getting 16 million back, but we have already turned in 1 billion. There's gonna be extra money, 220 million, for child care. Hi ha, calling the PvdA. However, this money is paid out of the enormous fortune of 300 million, which was created by the fact that no one made use of that childcare, which had become priceless for many people. There's gonna be extra money for the rent supplement. Actually, the planned austerity is postponed for a year. There will also be additional money for the care allowance. In fact, the planned reduction is postponed for a year. There will also be an increase in the elderly discount, but not if you have a pension above €35,000. In that case, you will return €83. The increase in the general tax rebate of €27 is, of course, a joke, considering that the tax rebate is being cut to 2 billion and that it will then be reduced to zero, twice as fast as before. Honestly, there'll be extra money. Extra money, hard euros, for abroad; that is the case. Extra millions, 110 million, for emergency aid. Should be possible. EUR 0.5 billion extra for the reception of asylum seekers. That's far too little, it's going to be tenfold, but we'll start with 540 million. There will be extra money, 60 million, for missions like Mali, the hobby of Minister Koenders. And for Brussels, another small billion is ready to pay the expected post-tax. So the cabinet keeps pumping away our hard-earned taxpayers' money. We get a dead sparrow, abroad gets hard euros. Brussels will receive 8 billion, Africa will receive 4 billion, a quarter billion will go to missions, 1.5 billion will be allocated to foreigners and asylum seekers, and last month we would be able to deposit 5 billion in the bottomless point called Greece. We are throwing nearly 20 billion this year abroad. We could have spent the same money for our elderly people in the Netherlands. For the people at home, the minister is Dagobert Duck, but across the border he plays for sintering classroom without a beard. Then there's unemployment. In the past year, government policy has attracted a trail of job-land destruction. In two years, 150,000 people lost their jobs. The balding of care alone resulted in the loss of 65,000 jobs and 20,000 jobs in home care. 270,000 older unemployed have been looking for a job for more than a year in vain. Also next year, more than 600,000 people are still out of work at home. And what does the Cabinet do? It comes with a 5 billion-dollar package of relief. A few extra tens in the wallet are of course welcome, but the CPB expects this package to create 7,000 jobs. That's 7 tons per job. What kind of package is this? How is the Minister going to help the remaining 597,000 people get a job? Next, a few comments on purchasing power. The elderly of the Netherlands are really screwed by the cabinet. In 2016, more than 700,000 pensioners are allowed to surrender purchasing power for the eighth year in a row. It's a gross disgrace. The Netherlands, the elderly with a small pension who need care, make the most of it. Pensioners have therefore received it for their choice thanks to the cabinet. Pensions are not indexed, thanks to the tightening of the rules by the Cabinet. We have just read in the newspaper that pensioners will be able to surrender a further 5% of their purchasing power over the next ten years as a result of the new pension rules. Thank you Jeroen Dijsselbloem. The elderly allowance disappears, so that the rent allowance for some no longer exists. If you have a small pension, the elderly discount will be reduced by €83. Older people's care has been cleaned up. Its own risk is priceless for many people, making it impossible to even leave drugs or skip checks. The compensation for one's own risk has disappeared. The compensation for chronically ill disappeared, the rents skyrocketed and the own contributions for the care purchase to municipalities as well. It is therefore not surprising that 80% of the three million pensioners are in financial difficulties thanks to this anti-elderly cabinet. While the Netherlands will be making a little progress next year, all the pensioners in need are turning in. You will only have a small supplementary pension of €10,000 and need home care. Next year you can turn in €130 per month; you lose 7.2% purchasing power. This group has lost more than 30% of its purchasing power since 2013. But this cabinet is going on and on. Then there is the biggest problem of our time: the asylum influx. Despite all the sweetness of that 5 billion, the future of the Netherlands tastes bitter. The Netherlands is inundated by asylum seekers. With tens of thousands at the same time, they enter our country in search of happiness and a better life. Instead of stopping these people, the cabinet rolls out the red carpet. How much does this cost, I ask the Minister of Finance. How much does this cost for care, benefits, housing, education and care? The Minister replied: money is not a problem. He's promising a blank check. The Prime Minister also said during the general political considerations that the availability of money will never be an obstacle to reception. In other words, even if it costs us billions and billions, even if this influx means the bankruptcy of the Netherlands, everyone gets shelter, a benefit, a home, good care and education. That's guaranteed by this minister. In that respect, he looks a bit like Angela Merkel. The Minister of Finance is the keeper of the treasury and he has to answer. So no blank checks, Minister. Can we have a look at the cost of all this? After all, it is again the taxpayers who can cough this up. The Netherlands guarantees just about everything and everyone. In the meantime, the guarantee has risen to nearly 200 billion. It is remarkable that we guarantee 75%, for 150 billion, for foreign countries and organisations that the Netherlands has no control over. This is a big risk. For example, the Netherlands guarantees 4 billion for Portugal, 3 billion for Ireland, 2 billion for Spain, 20 billion for Greece and 46 billion for the ECB. We cannot accept this and we do not have any influence on the policy. This minister plays Russian roulette with the prosperity of our children. The Minister writes in the Millions Note that he has a no-unless policy for guarantees. That's good, but those guarantees are only going up. And yet we read that he wants to participate in an Asian infrastructure investment fund. Why should the Netherlands participate in an Asian infrastructure investment fund for 1 billion? A ver-of-us-bed fund and then for a region, China, which is full of money. The calimero effect emanates from this minister. Can he explain to me why he wants to be a part of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u2	A quick question. Mr Van Dijck congratulated GeenPeil. I did, too. We also opposed the association agreement with Ukraine. I have read the report of the debate we have had, but Mr Beertema has not said anything about the association agreement with Ukraine. I think it is a little strange that something is being said about it afterwards by Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u3	I do not follow all the debates that Mr Bertema is having, but it is well known that the PVV does not want enlargement. In fact, we want to leave the EU. We certainly do not want enlargement of the EU, and certainly not with Ukraine, let alone with Turkey and all those other countries. I assume that this view of the PVV is well known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u4	I know that the PVV is against it for very different reasons than ours, but then the PVV has not been alert. We discussed the association agreement at some point. Wouldn't it have been more convenient if the PVV had talked about it at the same time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u5	I can repeat the PVV's position, but if anyone is a fierce opponent of an association agreement or of joining Ukraine with the EU, then it is the PVV. Indeed, we are more likely to reach the same end point. Take Greece. You were against support for Greece, because it was not enough for the SP, but we did not want to let a penny go to Greece. I understand that, in some respects, our opinions are a little different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman, hello. I'm falling into the house with the door. The 2016 budget is a missed opportunity: a missed opportunity for jobs, a missed opportunity for growth and a missed chance for stability. Last year around this time, the cabinet sounded so hopeful. When offering the briefcase, the minister mentioned tax reform, ambition and 100,000 jobs. I almost started believing in it. Now we are a year away, but there is not much left: no tax reform, no jobs and no ambition. I have only one qualification for this: fearful politics; despite all the fine words do not dare to do what is necessary. Minister Dijsselbloem is very strict in the euro group, where he holds other countries to the agreements, whether Greece, France or Italy, but apparently this is not the case for the Netherlands. Despite all the recommendations to do something about our established tax system and our outdated pension system and to invest more in education and knowledge, the cabinet comes with an analysis. "Reform as a continuous assignment" is the title of chapter two of the 2016 Millions Note. It is indeed a wonderful analysis. Much remains to be done, in the tax system, in the pension system and in education. We already knew that. The question is, however, what the cabinet is going to do, because there are no proposals. Then "reform as a continuous assignment" sounds very non-binding. How is the cabinet going to complete this assignment? How will Mr Harbers complete this assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr. Harbers is going to ask a question first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u8	How will Mr Koolmees complete this assignment? You have to dare say again that there is no tax review, while it bursting with ambitions. Two coalition parties have stuck their necks out, having the Secretary of State put eight proposals on the table and saying that it is negotiable for all of them. D66 is the party that may have been the longest here for a tax review. She said the word "VAT-slide" before anyone could have thought of it. Such a party should dare to run away first when it can really be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u9	That's right, we did run away. We did, because there was nothing left of that original ambition in Mr Wiebes' letter. The coalition had pulled a trick by handing out a gift first and then requesting support from the opposition for all reforms. That's the trick they pulled. However, all the oil the Secretary of State needed for his tax reform, for those 100,000 jobs, was gone. In fact, the VVD tweeted about this: this is going to happen anyway. In doing so, the coalition has not dared this tax reform.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u10	This is bullshit. The coalition has put these eight proposals on the table. Even after Mr Koolmees walked away from the table in June, the Secretary of State aligned what was in the Chamber in a letter. It was 15 billion in tax reforms, so don't blame us for not being brave. Mr Koolmees cannot blame the cabinet and the coalition partners for this. He can only blame himself, because all the other parties were still at the table. Mr Koolmees was the first to walk away, and he lacked courage. Everyone else would have tried. We had had all summer before. That's the real missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u11	I repeat my words: this is very easy politics. There was an ambitious letter with good proposals, with eight good points, on which many parties, including this Secretary of State, have talked three times to get far. The government's analysis in last year's letter was that 5 billion in lubricant oil is needed to achieve tax reform. I'm about to quote the Secretary of State from that letter, but the coalition's proposals for how it can happen are throwing money out of the street by saying it's going to happen anyway. For other ambitions, such as greening, one has to look at what is possible with other parties, but this money has already been spent by the coalition. As a result, ambition has become de facto impossible. Mr Harbers knows this, the VVD knows how politics works here. It has simply been an idea not to allow the ambition to come to fruition. So I think that's easy politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u12	Contrary to what I am used to from Mr Koolmees, today I have only heard comments about trials from him, for example on letters sent. And then you know how politics works in The Hague, according to Mr Koolmees. I'll just remind you how it went. Before a letter came, the cabinet invited all opposition parties. Then there was a debate in the Chamber and D66 said that the party would not talk to the cabinet before there was a letter with clear proposals. They didn't want to burn themselves. Then that letter came and the debate was over. Then people were invited. We were there with the constructive parties. I was totally into it. GroenLinks was there, as was Mrs Schouten and Mr Dijkgraaf. We've done good business with that before. Mr Pechtold and Mr Koolmees were also present. However, Mr Pechtold immediately walked away, while we had complied with all the procedural forms that D66 required. Now Mr Koolmees says that we could have seen it coming, because it was an unauthorized proposal and because the coalition showed no ambition. This isn't a way to work, is it? Why doesn't D66 just dare to stand in front of the choices that had to be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u13	I'm sure I would. That is why I have also put specific alternatives to the vote in the Chamber. Think of the proposals for 1.5 billion greening, a local tax area and a doubling of the number of jobs, i.e. a different approach for the 5 billion. Mr Nijboer's party, like the VVD, voted against it. This shows once again that the pre-summer note was an attempt to make the tax reform fail. All those fine words about unemployment a year ago as a great social starting point and all those ambitions have been watered down, because the coalition was afraid to choose anymore. The VVD and the Labour Party fundamentally disagree and now blame the opposition, at D66. We have said in the Chamber that the emperor has no clothes on. It turned out that the emperor wasn't wearing any clothes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u14	It's getting a little crazy right now. I have read the D66 counter-budget very carefully and put it very precisely in addition to the cabinet's proposals before the summer. Five of the six proposals were simply in the cabinet letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u15	But why didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u16	There was talk about greening. There was more money for child care. The income-independent combination discount was increased. There was more to the employment discount. All these cases were as far-reaching options in the cabinet letter, exactly one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u17	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u18	That was also very good for employment. Then D66 said she didn't want to talk about it and today D66 asks why we didn't do it. I hope D66 goes a little less into the process and a little more on the content. This would benefit the debate and also the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u19	I'm going to challenge Mr Nijboer now. We're standing right here. We are having the debate now. We have concrete proposals. We are going to table a motion on greening, on the local tax area and on a different interpretation of the 5 billion. I've said that a few times. Then I would like to see Mr Nijboer voting in favour. I'd like to see if those beautiful proposals are embraced by the coalition. I'm very curious about that. That didn't happen last week, I'm just saying. We have followed the same line in the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u20	I am willing to support good proposals, but that requires a majority in the Upper House. That's why we sat together and used this debate. The CDA simply wants to hold the debate and not sit together; that is also known, it has clear starting points. It is very easy to say: as a party we find this, but make sure that you support it and we count on you to do so. It is also looking together where we find a majority in different situations. Mr Koolmees knows that very well; so he can table motions and I will just look at them seriously, but in the end I think the goal should be to achieve things and not just to say what you think, including from a party like D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'll make it more concrete. Two weeks ago at the General Political Reviews, together with ChristenUnion, GroenLinks and D66, we tabled a motion on further greening; together we have 17 seats in the First Chamber. The coalition voted against that motion. Last year, the coalition continued to seek acceptance in this house and across the street, in order to carry out far-reaching reforms. It's always worked. The point is that Mr Nijboer has not dared to do so in the context of the tax reform. He threw it out sweetly and said: we're gonna do that anyway, we're gonna arrest it as a coalition. In doing so, he has made de facto impossible the ambition, the reform of the system. Now he blames me for not sticking around while I just noticed that night: the emperor has no clothes on; this is a scheme, a political trick not to bear any responsibility on behalf of the coalition and just to celebrate. There's no time to sit back. After seven years of crisis, it finally looks a bit sunnier. In recent years, the government has done a great deal to reform the economy, strengthen public finances and eliminate the backlog of maintenance. D66 strongly supported this policy; support was created. Now, however, the cabinet is pulling the brakes, just as the sun is shining again and it is not doing anything about the outdated tax system. The question is: doesn't the cabinet want that? In fact, history threatens to repeat itself, and I am crawling with the Balkening IV feeling. Balkenende IV: the cabinet that first went through the country for 100 days in 2007 and then sat back for three years. The Netherlands would be tired of reform. The mortgage interest rate deduction became the "h" word, the dismissal right was firmly established and the increase in the AOW age was unnegotiable. We have known that in recent years, because a year later, after the arrival of Balkenende IV, the financial crisis broke out. In the middle of the storm we were faced with delayed maintenance. The crisis has taught us an important lesson: take advantage of the good times, otherwise bad times will only get worse. I was surprised when the Minister of Finance warned on Princess Day that we should avoid late maintenance. That is precisely the point left by the cabinet. Let me quote the opinion of the Council of State: 'Due to the missed chance, there is a risk that there will be insufficient buffers to cope with new shocks and delayed maintenance. This can lead to painful measures in the future." It's not my words, it's the words of the Council of State. I sincerely hope that we have learned from the past few years, but I have a hard head when I look at the proposals. That starts with the failed tax reform. Our outdated tax system destroys jobs, stimulates debt and is unnecessarily complex. The system is in need of replacement, and it was possible, because money was available. 5 billion could have been used as a lubricating oil for the reform. I just announced the quote in last year's State Secretary's letter: "A system review without burden reduction is feasible, but reducing charges without a system review is a missed opportunity." You can see this in the assessments of the General Court, the Council of State and the Central Planning Office; they also say that it is indeed a missed opportunity. The cabinet, to be honest: the coalition has chosen the missed opportunity, a reduction in charges without a system review, and with that, the promised 100,000 jobs are far out of sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u22	I share that with Mr Koolmees. Does he share with me that this should also apply to the surcharges? We see that the cabinet with these surcharges gives a big boost to the entire circus of pumping money around in the Netherlands. How does Mr Koolmees feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u23	I very much agree with Mr Van Vliet. I'll have a passage in my input about it as well. In a system review, the cabinet could have dealt with the premium circus, reduced taxes on labour and increased taxes on pollution and waste. But the VVD and the PvdA didn't want reform at all and with a transparent trick they tried to blame the opposition. All this to mask that VVD and PvdA just don't agree anymore and don't have the puff to make anything more of a real tax reform; the rack is out. The absence of tax reform is particularly painful for all those people who are unemployed at home, more than 600,000 people who do not yet notice the growth that is attracting them. In general, the Netherlands is not bad. We are not in the top ten of the happiest countries in the world for nothing, but for a quarter of the Dutch that kite does not go on. The CBS shows how often this is related to unemployment. For those people, a percentage point of purchasing power really doesn't make a difference. A successful job interview, a job, that's what it's all about. Shouldn't the cabinet have realized that when it saw that the counter was stuck at only 35,000 jobs? We have shown in our alternative plan how to create more jobs. We're doubling the number of extra jobs. With our plan, we are offering not 5 billion but 10.5 billion in relief at work. The concrete question to the cabinet and the coalition is: is there room here? In this way, we can make a major impact on the reform of the decentralised tax area. Depending on the content: 15,000 to 30,000 additional jobs. The Minister called this interesting on Princess' Day. It was also in the cabinet letter of 19 June, but two weeks ago it appeared that the cabinet had no support for this even from its own coalition parties. Are you sure you can't do this, or is there still some room in here today? Let me try one more topic: the greening of taxes. As I said, during the General Political Reviews we tabled a motion in favour of fiscal greening. This motion was tabled by ChristenUnion, GroenLinks and D66, representing 17 seats. The Prime Minister advised these parties to try again in the General Financial Reviews. I'd like to give the cabinet a second chance. Our position is well known. We are in favour of taxing pollution instead of labour. The pressure on the environment will only increase. It is irresponsible to allow the greening ambition to be fully celebrated. It is also irresponsible to stick to the energy agreement, the inadequacy of which is becoming increasingly apparent. Is the Cabinet prepared to green the Tax Plan? Then I miss a major issue in the plan, namely simplification. We are pumping around more than 5 billion a year and this affects more than 4 million households. Executing that operation alone costs 80 million euros a year. A large proportion of these households first pay taxes to the Tax Administration and then receive surcharges from the same Tax Administration. I am referring, of course, to the health allowance. When are we gonna stop this pumping around? This can be done, for example, by halving healthcare contributions and by directly financing health insurers to a greater extent. If it is right, there is an investigation into the legal feasibility and the implementation aspects of it. When can this be sent to the Chamber? What is possible in this area and when will the cabinet do something about it? When it comes to simplification, isn't the capital tax going the wrong way? The current capital tax, with a fictitious return of 4%, is unfair. I agree. With several fictitious returns, however, it becomes more complex. The question is whether it will become more just. Take the example of being an entrepreneur and sitting right before your retirement. You saved a few tons for your retirement in a savings account. Then why do you have to pay more taxes on that amount? Why do other countries manage to tax the realised returns, when in the Netherlands this does not seem to be possible? I don't just want to look at the tax system. Much more is needed to get the economy in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u24	I do have a question about the tax system. D66 has ambitious proposals. The party blames the cabinet and the coalition for not making such proposals. That is quite special, because D66 blames the coalition for not being able to create 100,000 jobs, but the party itself is not able to create them. I'm gonna leave that point alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u25	Our proposal provides for a doubling of the number of jobs compared to the government's plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u26	I ask Mr Koolmees, who has chosen not to pass on his proposals, what are the purchasing power effects of the D66 package? What do these measures mean, in particular, for the elderly and beneficiaries of benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u27	The D66 tax plan could not be passed on by the Central Planning Bureau. If you have a counter-budget, you can, but if you have a tax plan, you can't. Let me add this for the Acts. Mr Nijboer is referring in particular to the decentralised tax area, I assume?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u28	Yeah, but I'm also talking about the exchange. There is no tariff cut that would benefit everyone. However, a reduction in working hours has been chosen. So that's what's killing the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u29	No, Mr Nijboer did not read it properly. We have obtained a large part of the money from the second and third discs, with measures in the area of decentralised taxation and greening. We're assuming an additional 1.5 billion. We can significantly increase the employment discount. This makes it very attractive for workers to work more. We have also been able to increase the childcare allowance and we have been able to increase the income-dependent combination discount. However, Mr Nijboer is right to make a point of the decentralised tax area. Depending on the way in which you shape the decentralised tax area and channel money back through lower tax rates, you can thus create jobs with it. In the purchasing power neutral variant, that is 15,000 jobs; then it is purchasing power balanced. In a slightly sharper variant, they are 30,000 jobs. At this point you do have a choice: what do you lock back in what way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u30	D66 actually says that we are doing 20,000 jobs by doubling the ozb; we collect that money from everyone and then we only give it to the people who work. Anyone who has a benefit or is retired simply gets nothing and goes to hell. For example, D66 gets its modeled number of jobs. The CPB did not pass this on, but these are the purchasing power effects. In fact, D66 puts the pensioners and the benefit-holders at a very low level in order to get their jobs. Moreover, these are not 100,000 jobs, whereas Mr Koolmees blames the PvdA for not achieving them. That's not a wise plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u31	Mr Nijboer did not read the plan properly. In the backlock there is indeed an increase in the employment discount, but there is also a reduction in the tax rates in the first and second discs, which mitigates a large part of the purchasing power effects. By the way, with this 5 billion, the cabinet and the coalition opt for the same model to create jobs. In this model, workers are also making more progress than beneficiaries and the elderly. So I find it a bit of a strange reproach from Mr Nijboer to my address.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u32	There is a substantial difference. In fact, we are not going to let the beneficiaries and pensioners go down in any way. In fact, this has been repaired in the cabinet plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u33	For this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u34	That is a real difference. I would be grateful if Mr Koolmees would pass on a question from me to the cabinet, because I cannot now put it to the cabinet myself. Does he want to ask the cabinet what the purchasing power effects of his plan are? Then we can all see them and discuss them openly and honestly. Then we can see how many beneficiaries and pensioners are falling in that plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u35	I'd like to direct that question. For this year, the purchasing power of beneficiaries and elderly people will be offset by the 850 million package, as stated in the Millions Note. The point is that this is a one-time thing. Next year it'll be gone again. Then Mr Nijboer has another problem that he has to solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr Koolmees always refers to his plan and then says: that is proof that we can create 75,000 jobs. For convenience, he then charges 35,000 jobs, so it's actually 40,000 jobs. But I don't see it in the play. So it's not a counter-budget, it's a tax plan. I can't help noticing that, by the way. There are no investments in education, etc. I can only see two bars. The only thing it says is that the effects on employment are based on recent publications by the Central Planning Bureau. So that's the proof? Then there will be at least a list showing how many jobs the various proposals will bring? Then we can base it on something. Otherwise, it's a little out of the blue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u37	If Mr Merkies sets up his glasses and looks at Table 1, he will see that it is in the last column.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u38	For the Acts: Mr Merkies puts on his glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u39	Yeah, I'll do that right away. In the last column there is indeed the number of jobs. That's 53,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u40	And there's two more footnotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u41	So what Mr Koolmees means is that it is based on 'the effectiveness of fiscal participation policies'? So that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u42	No, wait a minute. I'm not done. There is a footnote entitled "The effectiveness of tax participation policies'. From this we have to realise that this will create 40,000 additional jobs. Come with a list! Make clear what measures they are! Then we know whether those measures are hidden somewhere in the CPB report, which are simply disastrous for purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u43	The CPB updated the labour market model a year ago. It then published the publication "The Effectiveness of Tax Participation Policy." That publication contains railway records. It says how many additional jobs a shift from one tax to another. We have done three things in Table 1. Firstly, we have refilled the 5 billion package. On the one hand, it costs jobs, on the other hand, jobs. We have completed it in such a way that it will create more jobs. So that's more effect for the same money. Secondly, we have opted for 1.5 billion more tax relief on labour. We have filled that out along the same CPB railway records and used them to create more jobs. In the publication of the CPB, a wider local tax area was chosen. Three variants have been developed for their design. In Table 1 we have chosen the middle variant. That's 4 billion. It's been filled out in detail. That's where the jobs come from. That is the reason in the table. Mr Merkies is very well aware of how planning bureau models work, how the annexes work with these railway booklets. So he's good at calculating it. It's very transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u44	I think I'm missing an attachment. That's all I expected. I also hope that reference will be made to the relevant passages in those railway booklets. Otherwise, we can't control it, can we? Then Mr Koolmees will be able to create a number of jobs. I therefore hope that there will be references to indicate where it is in the CPB's railway booklet. Then we can see, for example, what that does with purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u45	I just gave you that reference. The planning agency's track record is in that publication. That's what that footnote says. There, Mr Merkies can see how many jobs a change in the rate of the third disc, in the employment discount or in the childcare allowance. That's what we did. Mr Merkies can do that properly. That's very transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u46	I would ask you to continue with your speech. No! I actually say "no" to myself, because I see Mr Harbers wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u47	Just before the historic realization. Mr Koolmees quotes those railway books, but does he remember that a year ago he accused the cabinet of basing those 100,000 jobs in the plans on a railway book, and not on the whole bill? That reasoning is crooked, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u48	A year later you notice that the Central Planning Bureau does not make a full transfer of the Tax Plan. Then you think: what an interesting analysis, I'm going to use it. Mr Harbers must count his blessings!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u49	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u50	I don't just want to look at the tax system. Much more is needed to get the economy in order. Three weeks of reading, the BIS (Bank for International Settlements) warned that the Netherlands, after China, is the most sensitive to shocks in interest rates worldwide. That's because of our high debt burden. The debt of Dutch households is 750 billion euros. That's a lot more than the state debt. The central banks conduct an experimental policy with interest worldwide. It's unclear how this will end. The Dutch economy will be vulnerable if it is not economically viable. This vulnerability is not a natural phenomenon but a direct consequence of policy. Because the paradox is that the Netherlands has a lot of debt but at the same time a lot of capital. Only this capital is in the pension funds. We can't reach it. Anyone who loses his job, who divorces or wants to move to take a job elsewhere, cannot use this ability to relieve his debts. That is why, as we have seen in recent years, the Netherlands is being hit harder than other countries in a recession. This system also creates a distorted distribution across life. After they have paid their pension contributions, housing costs and childcare costs, young people and young families barely have any money left. What a difference with the moment the kids are out of the house and the mortgage is paid off. It is therefore high time to adapt the tax and pension systems so that there is air for young people in the rush hour of life. More freedom of choice, more flexibility and more buffers for when it's inconvenient. This analysis has been in the Millions Note for two years now. They are good analyses, but when will the cabinet actually do something about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u51	Did D66 just distance himself from the loan system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u52	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u53	There is only one major reform that has been implemented in recent years that makes it extremely difficult for 18 to 30-year-olds. That's the fact that if you do an HBO study now, for example the pabo because you want to be a teacher or teacher in primary school, you build up a student debt of €30,000 and no more basic scholarship. If you're stupid enough to fall in love with the person sitting next to you in the school sofas, that's gonna be $60,000. Then you'll have to start buying a house after that. You earn a moral salary at the primary school, in a very honourable profession, but also a profession that you never get rich with. For those people, this coalition, with the support of D66 and GroenLinks, has made it much more difficult. And now D66 says the opposite in one go. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u54	No, what we have done with the social loan system has been set aside billions for investment in the quality of education. At the same time, something has happened in recent years to relieve the rush hour of life. I refer to the adaptation of the White Cow Framework. I am also referring to extra money for childcare and, as far as I am concerned, even more money for childcare. But we cannot ignore the fact that the big elephant in the Chamber is the pension system, where money is indeed stored up, which means that young families are not left with money but at the same time very wealthy. That's the paradox. You have to do something about that. The social loan system is a social system because you have a very long time to repay an investment your own human capital, with a very low pay-off rate. That seems justified to me if it allows you to free 1.2 billion to invest in the quality of higher education, and thus also in the future earning capacity of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u55	D66 indeed takes over that this couple, who just got off the pabo, has €60,000 in debt. These students no longer had a basic grant. In addition, adjustments to the child care allowance are completely inappropriate. Does D66 share the view that she has not paid any attention to young families and now, as mustard after the meal, comes to say that she wants to do something because she shares that analysis at once?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u56	D66, for example, has released 500 million for education in the budget agreements with the Cabinet in recent years, precisely in order to invest in the quality of education for young children. We have earmarked extra money for childcare, for income, for employment discounts, for income-dependent combination discounts. These are all measures to make this possible. The social loan system, as Mr Omtzigt knows, is a very social effect, in which you are indeed building a debt. I am not going to run away from it, which you can repay from my head in 25 or 30 years of 35 years, Mr Omtzigt is helping me. Those aren't the big burdens. The major burden on a family with children is pension contributions and childcare costs. It's the cost of kids at all if you're both working. On the contrary, this D66 plan does a great deal to support these families. What a difference with the moment the kids are out of the house and the mortgage is paid off! I had outlined that in the rush hour of life the income is limited, while there is much more income available later. It is high time to adapt the tax system and the pension system, so that young people get air in the rush hour of life: more freedom of choice, more flexibility and more buffers in the run-up to it. When are we gonna pick this up? I had stayed with the diversity, the competition, in the financial sector. The three largest Dutch banks have a large market share. ING, Rabobank and ABN AMRO together hold 80% of the market. This week it turned out that people have little confidence in the banking sector. The banks score a 2.8, but alternatives are limited. This makes not only the services, but also the Dutch economy vulnerable. If it's against the banks, the credit tap gets clogged. Entrepreneurs will no longer be able to invest. For D66, it is important to increase competition: new entrants to the banks, new forms of crowd landing or credit unions and private equity for pension funds to invest. A diverse financial sector contributes to a robust economy. Competition is good for the rates of mortgages or loans. Thanks to new providers, mortgages in the Netherlands have become much cheaper in the past year. That tastes like more. Unfortunately, it is very difficult in the Netherlands to get a permit or to start a new company. That is why I am making three proposals today to facilitate the accession of new players. Will the Minister make proposals to develop a banking permit light, as in the United Kingdom? I have a report here from the Bank of England and the Financial Conduct Authority. Will the Minister at DNB and at the AFM set up a support point where new companies can consult with their licence application? Will the Minister and the Secretary of State work on equal tax treatment of own funds and debt? Dutch companies now have more debt than equity, because they are tax incentives. This is unhealthy, but it also hinders the start of alternative sources of funding. A lack of equity is an obstacle to credit, especially in SMEs. I'd like to get a response from both regiments. Then I come to the expenditure side of the budget. In general, D66 supports this budget, because many of the commitments we have made in recent years are reflected in this budget. However, we still have major concerns on four points. First of all, these concern the problems in the area of security and justice: the proposals on cuts in access to justice, the proposals on registry rights and those on legal aid are going to die in the Upper Chamber. There are major problems with the police, the prosecutor's office and the Council of Justice. Not only the Ministry, but also the budget is a mess. The question is: why does the Minister of Finance accept this? Why does the VVD accept this? I thought safety was the VVD's stick horse. Two weeks ago, the almost complete opposition led by Mr Roemer asked for additional resources to solve the problems. That is the question the cabinet has put aside the coalition. My only question to the cabinet is: how now? How are things going with the security and justice issues? We also see major problems in appropriate education. Secretary of State Dekker thinks he can solve the problems without extra money. Honestly, I doubt that. There's kids at home. Kids don't come to an appropriate school. The Secretary of State believes that the problem can be solved with more coordination, but 84% of teachers say they do not have enough time to help these children well. They're missing hands in class. In the General Political Reviews we have proposed to make money available for extra class assistants, precisely to get those extra hands in the classroom and to pay for that by hiring fewer consultants and agency staff from the ministries. I still think that's wise. I'd like to get a response. Then I get to a point I'm really surprised about. At a party meeting of the Labour Party, the Finance Minister himself shot a 200 million hole in the budget. According to him, the care allowance that goes into 2018 and is in the books is not going to be paid. The question is: is the Minister going to repeat these words here, and do so by taking them out of the budget? The fourth point on the expenditure side concerns the budget for refugee reception. That's what I'm worried about. Two weeks ago, a motion was passed in the Chamber calling on the government to release additional funds for reception in the region and first-year care. That money should be found outside the current budgets for development cooperation. That's an important addition. Now I am getting signals that this money is being searched for within the development aid budget. I don't think that's the idea. How's the Minister handling this? I am also curious to hear the answer to Mr Omtzigt's question on the expectation for next year on this point. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that 2016 will be a year of missed opportunities in this way. The cabinet signals problems, but moves solutions forward to the future. This spring, when discussing the reform programme, the cabinet was halfway through the journey and had two more years to go. I asked the Minister of Finance: what are the government's priorities for the second half of the cabinet period? He then replied by mentioning three priorities, namely an ambitious tax review, an answer to the question of how to deal with the labour market of the future andzzp'ers, and tackling the outdated pension system. Now we're six months away. I note that the ambitious tax review has not been carried out. The report on thezzp'ers and the future of the labour market has been in a drawer for over a year. Finally, I note that the approach to the pension system is constantly being pushed forward. This approach is announced, it is discussed and written about, including in last year's Millions Note and also in this year's, but there is nothing yet. I can see why that's happening. VVD and the Labour Party fundamentally disagree on this and there are no agreements on these issues in the coalition agreement. So we're out of government agreement and we can't build bridges anymore. The coalition doesn't go beyond handing out, postponing and puffing out. To those of us who are now in trade-K, therefore, the clean task, to show that the cabinet has not been ruled out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u57	Mr President, I am a little late with my interruption, but I would like to return to the D66 plan. I would like to take another step back. I recall that Mr Koolmees has tabled a motion calling for a life-neutral tax system. I believe that this motion was tabled in 2012. The report of the Van Dijkhuizen Committee has emerged from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u58	Yes, the Dijkhuizen Commission was concerned, among other things, with life-form neutrality. Not much has been done about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u59	No, but Mr Koolmees himself was a petitioner asking for it. How does he indicate the vital neutrality of his own proposals? I'm asking because he made such a point at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u60	I can say a few things about that. For example, by increasing the working discount, we want to make this attractive to single-earners. Mrs Schouten has also heard my analysis of the rush hour of life. What are we running into and where is the vulnerability of young families? In 2013, 60% of the mortgages of young families with a merchant house were underwater. That is where you see the problem of a group that is wealthy, although they have a lot of capital in pension funds, but they do have a mortgage that is underwater, which puts people in prison. I also call work and jobs. We now see that the combination of work and care in a family with two working parents is a real bottleneck. Childcare plays a role in this. This bottleneck leads people to withdraw from the labour market. You want to find a solution to that. This is good for the people themselves, because it enables them to work and be economically independent. This is also good for the capacity of public services and it is good for the future. That is why my group has tabled these proposals in this way. By the way, we also have a lot of other proposals, for example on inheritance and gift rights. In addition, we want to anchor this life-form neutrality, or these modern family forms also in the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u61	The co-author of the motion, Mr Dijkgraaf, is standing here next to me at the interrupting microphone. At the time, he gave a really different reading of life-form neutrality. It should not be the taxes that determine what choices are made in the family. Mr Koolmees and I differ on this point. I note, however, that Mr Koolmees' plans have come further away from what was asked for in the motion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u62	In fact, we had the same point of interest at the time from a completely different point of view. There was the angle of the singles and the angle of the singles, so the breadwinners. Mr Dijkgraaf can confirm that. We ensure that the tax system makes it more attractive to work and that it is fair at the same time, more equitable. The SGP and D66 are politically and ideologically something else in this discussion. It is important, therefore, that I started my answer with this, that we, for example, continue to increase the reduction in working hours in our plans, especially for the sole earner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u63	Now Mr Koolmees does it again, now he frames that the SGP is for the breadwinner and D66 for the sole earner, the single with an income. Nonsense. Mr Koolmees does not even look at his own supporters. I will explain in a moment, when my turn comes, that there are more D66s who are breadwinners than SGPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u64	Absolutely or relative?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u65	Absolutely. There are more D66s who are breadwinners than SGPs. What is Mr Koolmees doing in his programme for those breadwinners? Once again, the difference, which has already grown hugely with the plans of this cabinet, between two earners and one earners. Isn't it time for modern politics? We live in the 21st century. Forget that 1966, that was then, all of that is no longer necessary. We have modern women and they just choose what they want. They don't need all these tax incentives. Choose modern politics, choose SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u66	I'm not gonna do the last one anyway. Firstly, I think it is very important that taxes on labour go down, indeed to give people the freedom to choose for themselves. That is why we are broadly reducing tax rates on labour. Secondly, in recent years we have unfortunately found that the employment rate effects of austerity were not as intended. Childcare, for example, was expected to yield a certain amount, but ultimately it was found to cost hundreds of millions more because people withdrew from the labour market. I think this is bad for the acceptance of our collective provision and I think it is bad from the point of view of economic independence. What if it goes wrong? People get divorced, that happens occasionally. If you then become dependent on a welfare allowance, I find that a socially undesirable situation. I also think that the economic independence of people is an end in itself, and there may be a different political weighting from that of Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u67	It's always about paid work, paid work and paid work. That's important, for everyone. It's nice if you can. One more tip from the veil, then. Soon I will explain that three quarters of the householders cannot choose freely at all; impossible. Yes, I see you looking, and you'll be watching later. Three quarters of the householders don't do that voluntarily. Where are they? You aim all instruments at 100% of that group and only 25% are in the luxury position to make that choice. Where do we stand for vulnerable people? Where do we stand for people with disabilities? I'm thinking family care, people over 65, people with a college partner. All these groups are fucked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u68	I immediately agree with Mr Dijkgraaf that there should be a great deal of attention to the question of how we ensure that there is room and freedom of choice in the participatory society, or whatever we call it, to organise your life in a different way. We have seen over the past decades that more and more women have started to work; fortunately. They also went out looking for paid jobs. Once again, this is good for economic independence. It's also good for the economy. You can also see that I find this a problem in Dutch society, that a lot of women still work part-time or in small jobs. If it goes wrong, they will no longer have a luxury position and will no longer be able to choose. Mr Dijkgraaf talks about one side of the coin. I agree with him. That is why we also need to reduce taxes on labour, which means more jobs and more choice. The other side of the coin is economic independence and resilience. I believe that, through the tax system, politics should also pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance came to this Chamber two weeks ago with Lieftinck's briefcase; Mr Nijboer also referred to it. In the foreword of the Millions Note, the Minister writes that it is actually a symbolic gesture. He wants to express a sensible fiscal policy and a renewed prosperity with it, in the spirit of Lieftinck, he says. I've been browsing to see what that Lieftinck has done. I have here a book from the Centre for Parliamentary History. It should almost watch out for the chairman's desk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u70	Is it also available in digital form?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u71	I don't know, Mr. Chairman. I can tell the rulers it's highly recommended. There are really very nice debate descriptions, indeed from the time of Lieftinck. I made it clear that there are some parallels between Lieftinck and this minister and this Secretary of State. For example, Lieftinck was like this minister of the PvdA. I would like to add that Mr Lieftinck has at some point been dropped very badly. He was very disappointed and he canceled his membership. So I'm just gonna warn the minister. Both Lieftinck and the minister have passed important laws in the field of banks. Lieftinck introduced the Banking Act and this minister the Banking Union, whatever we think of it. Both have also been very busy with tax reforms, and I look at the Secretary of State again. There, however, there is a difference, because Lieftinck did bring it to a review. He even managed to introduce a capital increase charge in one go. So it's possible, I'll tell the Secretary of State. An important parallel between the time of Lieftinck and ours is that the challenges are great. That was in those days, in the post-war years, certainly so. We have the unbelievable privilege of leaning on the work that our ancestors have put up in the post-war years to get the country on top of it. They worked for our future as we now have a duty to determine what we want to leave to our next generations. As I said, the challenges are great. We are now seeing the consequences of the major conflicts in this world. Refugees seek and find their way to Europe and also to the Netherlands. Globalisation is no longer merely an economically charged concept. It has also become a geopolitical concept. Conflicts elsewhere have their impact on our lives. Although we hear of the influx of refugees every day, this has not yet been taken into account when drawing up the budget for Security and Justice. I say that with some sense of understatement. The budget for this year and next year is based on an asylum influx of some 26,000 people, but this year we have just heard the figures of the Secretary of State for V and J, 37 000 people have already arrived. The budget is also based on a reduction in the contribution to the COA. Two weeks ago, at the General Political Reviews, here is the motion Slob c.s. adopted (34300, no. 23), in which the Cabinet is called upon to come forward with proposals for structural additional funds for the first-year reception in the Netherlands and in the region in 2016, while avoiding ongoing OS programme lines. How will the cabinet ensure that these additional resources are found? Does it have any idea where these resources should be found? Mr Koolmees said that there are noises that can be found within the OS budget, but that is not in line with the motion. I assume that this will not be the case either. Sustainability is another issue with major challenges. The objectives we have agreed on in this respect are becoming increasingly out of sight, while we are literally talking here about the future of our children. Residents from Groningen even feel what the use of fossil fuels does to our soil and their lives. In the autumn, the cabinet will consider a possible reduction in the 2016 extraction ceiling, but will still assume 33 billion cubic metres in the estimate and budget. At the same time, we can see that the low price of oil is reducing gas revenues. So it seems to me that the time has come to lower the extraction ceiling. The gas stays in the bottom. That is important because the prices are now low, but above all because you offer certainty to the Groningers. Does the Minister recognise that it is wise to bring that back already? Is she willing to do that? Unemployment is still high. The remarkable thing is that this is largely due to increased labour supply. That is what I am saying to Mr Koolmees, who is not here right now. In the short term, therefore, the use of jobs alone will not lead to lower unemployment. Part of it is also due to long-term unemployment. I shall come back to this in the Social Affairs budget. I do have a question about the labour market. We've been waiting for the ibozzp for months. That's the report that deals with all kinds of themes aroundzzp'ers. Soon we will be discussing the Tax Plan, where this subject may be of interest. Is the Minister prepared to send the ibo zzp, which has been in the Ministry for months, to the Chamber before handling the Tax Plan? Then we can take that with us. I come to the 5 billion package. 2016 should have been the year of the big tax reform. The attic was finally to be cleaned up, the Secretary of State said. We have to note that our tax system remains a mess. A missed opportunity. Does the cabinet still want to use the second half of the playing time for a change in the system, or has it really given up? Last Friday, the CPB carried out an excellent study on the possibilities to standardise the tax treatment of capital income and to use it for lower labour costs. How does the cabinet view the CPB's proposals? Does it intend to continue working on the proposals for this cabinet period? The CPB recommends taxing savings and investments on the basis of the actual return. This is particularly topical in the debate on the capital efficiency levy. We are going to talk about this, but it is still not clear to me why it is not technically possible to raise the real rate of return. Countries around us do. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to make another attempt to answer that question. Another point raised by the CPB is the more equal taxation of equity and debt. This is a wish expressed by the Secretary of State in his letter of June last. What does the Secretary of State have to do with this? Surely there are steps to be taken here? Is he willing to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u72	I hear Mrs Schouten asking the Minister whether it is possible to raise real returns. That is a very fair question. It leads me to a question to the Christian Union Group. Suppose it is not possible directly or in the very short term, does the Christian Union see the present proposal as a step in the right direction and will it support it, or does it see it as a proposal that should be referred to the trash?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u73	In a proposal where 3.5 million households improve by paying a lower capital return tax and 350,000 households decline, the balance sheet seems to me to be rather quick. It is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u74	Thank you very much for that answer. I hope you hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u75	You can hold me to that. One of the underlying reports on the tax review was the report of the Van Dijkhuizen Commission. That committee was once set up at the request of the Chamber in order to establish a life-neutral tax system. So when we started thinking about the tax system, the wish was clear at the outset. But what do we end up with? With a system that has put even more pressure on life-form neutrality. The difference between one and two earners has grown even further. During the General Political Reviews, the Prime Minister acknowledged that the difference could increase so far that a single earner pays five times as much tax as two earners on the same salary. The Nibud also concludes that. As far as we're concerned, the Tax Administration doesn't decide which choices families make. A lot of families don't have that choice either. We just heard the example of people with a sick partner. It is also very contradictory that, on the one hand, the cabinet asks society to provide more and more unpaid care, but on the other hand it punishes tax. This inequality must be corrected. This tax plan exudes too much individualism and too little sense of community. Does the government agree that it is no longer a fair tax system if there is such a large difference in the tax burden and does it intend to do something about it? The same applies to the purchasing power of chronically ill and disabled people. The cabinet has said that all groups are improving their purchasing power. Now chronically ill and disabled people are not a separate group in purchasing power, but that does not mean that there are no purchasing power effects. Calculations by the Nibud show that next year, in almost all cases, chronically ill and disabled people will deteriorate. It is precisely at a time when everyone benefits from the attracting economy and the reduction of the burden of the cabinet that we think it is only fair that this group should also benefit. What is the government's view of purchasing power development for chronically ill and disabled people, as expressed in the Nibud figures? Does the cabinet agree with us that we should look at this again? When it comes to greening, there are often fine words. We have just heard it in Mr Nijboer's speech, but unfortunately that is often the case. We still see ways of taking steps in this direction. Even the Council of State questions the level of ambition of the cabinet in relation to the objectives we have set ourselves in terms of, for example, CO reduction. Greening taxes can serve two purposes: contributing to the sustainability statement and using tax revenues for, for example, lower labour costs. Two birds with one stone. However, nothing comes from the cabinet. During the general political considerations, a motion by the Christian Union, D66 and GroenLinks groups was rejected. In our counter-budget, we make various proposals for further greening. Does the cabinet still have ambitions in the field of greening? As far as I am concerned, the proceeds from this may also be used to reduce the burden on labour. My appeal is to show more courage and ambition in this area. The cabinet has the support of our group in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mrs Schouten rightly calls for the Slob c.s motion, which we have also warmly signed. on tax greening. That motion has been rejected. I do not think that was wise on the part of the coalition, because it was a seventeen-seat motion, and that can simply play a role, which was also referred to by the Prime Minister. My question is whether the Christian Union stands firm. Can Mrs Schouten say whether the greening of the tax system is a precondition for reaching agreement at all with the new tax system? If that clarity can be created, at least on behalf of the various authors of the motion, this could be an extremely interesting situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u77	This is the classic what-if question. We have said by what lines we will assess the tax system. Greening is an important theme. We will make our total weighing up in the end. It is too general to speculate now on what will happen next. I want to make every effort to get greening in the tax package, precisely on the basis that it contributes to our sustainability objectives, but also because with the proceeds we can achieve very useful things, for example the reduction of the burden on labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u78	Let's not fool each other. The Christian Union Group has a key role to play in this respect. She can try to get out of the tax plan with the cabinet on two sides. That is a comfortable position, but it also creates responsibility. I very much welcome the position of the Christian Union Group, but if it wishes to fulfil the ambitions of its counter-budget in respect of the 300 million coal tax, the 240 million for housing insulation and the 100 million for exemption from energy taxation for the production of own energy and also to abolish the subsidy on biomass, then I can assume that it is almost a rhetorical question that the Christian Union Group is not going to let itself be fooled. If necessary, we will be happy to assist Mrs Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u79	Let Mr Grashoff be surprised by what we will all try to ensure that the tax plan is moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u80	Please continue. Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u81	I'm about to finish. We have just talked about the resources for asylum in the budget of Security and Justice, but the insufficient resources for the criminal justice chain are even worse. We'll talk about the police, the prosecutor's office and the courts. The Slob/Samsom motion was adopted in the Chamber. In that motion, it is pronounced to preserve the courts. It is really crucial that steps are taken now. This is not a political game, but a serious remark, arising from the importance of criminal law and the criminal justice chain in our rule of law. I hope that the cabinet does not now run on a blind wall, but that it sees for itself what proposals it can come up with. I'm rounding up. I started with Mr Lieftinck and I thought: I have to finish a bit with a VVD. Then everything comes together more. I do that with the words of former VVD'er Oud. He gave a very wise advice to the cabinet of which Mr. Lieftinck was a member in his speeches that the biblical Joseph also gave to his brothers when they went on a journey: go and do not get angry on the way. And that is what I wish these two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr. Chairman. I was reading that Millions note and all of a sudden I thought: suppose the VVD was in the opposition and would read what's here. They would be left, they mean the Labour Party, the classic reproach of pottering. You have a little budget space and before you know it, you're already giving it away instead of using it to reduce, for example, the government deficit. A well-known liberal theme. Suppose the PvdA was in the opposition and read exactly that same Millions note. They would seriously blame the right for not doing anything about unemployment, only paying attention to the reduction of burdens and, above all, according to the classic liberal model 'who has a lot gets a lot and who has almost nothing gets very little'. How wonderful that this coalition of PvdA and VVD has once again managed to connect the worst of both worlds. Because what exactly does this Millions Note do, besides relief? It creates virtually no employment. The inequality in the Netherlands is not reduced and we can discuss it with each other or increase it, because that is more like it. The tax system is not simplified. Do you remember that Secretary of State who said it was a missed opportunity? Last but not least, the urgent issue of our climate and the associated greening of our economy are not being addressed. Meanwhile, the financial situation of the Netherlands is not so bright. That just seems a little bit like that right now. The beautiful figure in the Millions Note, which indicates vulnerability and resilience to shocks in our public finances, speaks volumes. In fact, if you look through your eye hairs, you can say that the massive repressing of euros by the ECB, low oil prices, low interest rates and a pleasantly low euro rate are the reason for our economy. And that could be temporary, and it might well be that what is now being given away in terms of relief should be re-raised in order to keep the budget in order in the shortest possible time. In this respect, it would be logical for the funds currently available to be strategically invested in making our economy more sustainable and creating jobs and preferably in a combination of both. This will enable us to create structural jobs faster and better than the cabinet now does with 5 billion jobs at no more than 35,000; we can limit our dependence on natural gas, now from our own country, but at the expense of a lot of misery in Groningen and soon for sale for a lot of money from our great friend Putin. 35.000 jobs in ten years, however you turn or turn, it's a lousy result, and a fall in unemployment by 0.2% next year. If a cabinet says it takes employment seriously, it must also dare to take measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mrs Schouten's last words were addressed to the cabinet: don't go and get angry. I had a bit of a feeling now that I got an illustration of what is angry or gramstorious, because really all the evil in the world is due to this cabinet and especially to the parties that support it, VVD and PvdA, and everything that is good comes from outside. I would ask Mr Grashoff if he is prepared to give a balanced picture of this. Does he recognise that the measures taken by the cabinet, for example in the financial sector, in the housing market, in the care sector and in all kinds of other areas, which were difficult and painful, have perhaps also contributed to the economic recovery that now seems to flourish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u84	First of all, I want to correct a misunderstanding. I did not say, and I will never do so, that all the calamities of the economic crisis can be attributed to the cabinet. That would be too much honor. However, I would point out that the way in which the crisis has been dealt with has made an important contribution to job creation. When I look at the hard work that needs to be done in health care and home care, I see that there has been cuts in such a way that we would very much like to have those jobs again. As far as I am concerned, we are creating them again rather than going on a completely different course with relief. In the public sector, too, there is a need for work, work that must be done, and Mr Nijboer knows this as well as I do. If we invest in it, it will create direct employment, and that is real jobs. They do not come from the market, but they are real jobs for really necessary work. I call home care, police, childcare and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u85	I share Mr Grashoff's view that employment is the greatest task of our time. I have also spent most of my time on this during my first-term contribution. I also agree with him that public jobs are full-time jobs. I'm glad he admits that not all the trouble comes from the cabinet. It is perhaps too much to ask whether he wants to recognise that difficult measures have been taken, for example for the mortgage interest rate deduction that GroenLinks was in favour of, but also in the financial sector and otherwise, and that these measures provide a good basis. It does not have to be said, but I would like to take into account Mrs Schouten's point that Mr Grashoff is taking this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u86	I am speaking in my speech about the budget before us. This budget has certain effects, and I note that the cabinet in which Mr Nijboer's party participates says that employment is first and foremost, but does not do so in practice. He'll have to take it to heart. The climate ambition is also affected by the fact that while the Cabinet says that it will carry out the Urgendavonnis, many words are not mentioned in the Millions Note, no money is released and no burden shifting is proposed. Nothing! And that while there is a considerable increase in ambition. 15 megatons of extra CO reduction by 2020 is not amiss and time is running out. Not for nothing during the General Political Reviews is the motion-Klaver c.s. adopted that we should start implementing additional measures to reduce CO emissions in 2016. This is an addition to the energy agreement, which cannot therefore remain unchanged. I'd like to get a reaction from the cabinet. It seems logical that, now that we are talking about our financial frameworks, we should lay the foundations for this in 2016. Then you could also take effective measures in 2016. For GroenLinks, greening the tax system is a sine qua non condition. Let me be clear about this: without greening, my group will not be able to agree to the Tax Plan. That is why I would like to propose at least four concrete measures. There is always talk about the extent to which and the precise design, but only once concretely a number of things on the table. It concerns the coal tax, the increase in the energy tax for large consumers and a number of adjustments to the energy tax for small consumers, exemption from energy tax for private individuals and cooperatives for self-generated electricity, and, borrowed entirely from the counter-budget of the Christian Union, the no longer subsidising of biomass. That's a hell of a proposal. I'll start with the coal tax. A quick scan of ECN estimates that if we want to get close to the Urgendavonnis, we really need to shut down coal power stations and at least drastically reduce emissions. Otherwise, we won't make it. This can be done in a very practical and feasible way with coal tax. It was difficult to settle this by law; d The ACM had already told us. If you do this with the coal tax, you collect money that you can reinvest. This means that you also attract investments in renewable energy. For example, you can put it in a revolving energy saving fund, again for the energy and industrial sectors. This could drive the flywheel of energy saving and renewable energy. Here, perhaps, a good combination is possible with Mr Samsom's good proposal to create an innovation fund. There might be something to combine here. The energy tax for large consumers should be increased. Large consumers pay one hundredth share of the energy tax we pay as small consumers in the Netherlands. I will not propose that these rates be aligned. I can't do that, of course. But let's raise that rate gradually over the next few years. In this case, as far as we are concerned, the money does not have to go back to the treasury or be used to reduce the government deficit or other matters. We call for it to be put into that energy saving fund and thus to stimulate such investment. They produce work, which cuts the knife both ways. There's something strange going on with small consumers right now. In the energy tax we tax gas significantly lower than electricity. This hampers energy savings and the transition to sustainable alternatives for the well-known HR gas boiler. This could be corrected by increasing the burden on gas consumption above a certain level. Here too, of course, this must be done carefully and gradually and with the condition that these funds are redirected back to energy saving options in the built-up environment, especially for households. I explicitly ask the Secretary of State to comment on our reasoning about this imbalance in the energy tax between electricity and gas. Is he willing to consider this aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u87	I hear that Mr Grashoff is proposing a substantial increase in the burden on households. Can the GroenLinks Group indicate by what amount the gas tax for a normal household, say for a two-under-one house with energy label B or C, will increase? Mr Grashoff notes that I am not taking the energy label from GroenLinks headquarters, I am simply taking a pleasant energy label.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u88	At the GroenLinks headquarters there are now 80 solar panels, which we can count for the energy label. I think our energy label might not be that bad, but perhaps Mr Omtzigt still has outdated information. It's always nice to be able to notice this. Of course, this leads to a burden increase for households, but if you do it carefully, where the money is initially redirected back to the smaller energy user, this does not have to be a problem. There's a lot of ways to put this back. It can be done via income tax, but it can also be done via the tax rate in the energy tax itself. In this way you can spare the small energy user, the small households that are almost always the people who live in smaller homes or flats and make the purchasing power effects manageable. For the citizen with an average or above average income, this leads to an increase in the burden, but at the same time it is also so important, and that is why I hope that Mr Omtzigt wants to think along in this area. This means that within a few years the same private individual will not spend more, but less on his electricity. That's what we've got to do. It is true that this calls for careful implementation, as you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u89	Can we get some sort of estimate of the amounts for the Tax Plan? It's about higher or lower now. I understand that, but it does matter whether you see your energy bill go up by €5, €50 or €300. We'd like to get an estimate of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u90	I'd like that. You're never allowed to ask counter questions here, so I'm just gonna have to do it rhetorically. I would very much appreciate it if Mr Omtzigt and the CDA would like to consider a responsible introduction and not just use the information to you-baking. If Mr Omtzigt is prepared to think seriously about it, I am prepared to share all the information with him. We have an exemption scheme for self-generated renewable electricity, but it is too tight. There are all kinds of initiatives, but they don't come off the ground. It would be wise if we could. That is why we want to call for a total exemption from energy taxation for households and cooperatives that generate decentralised electricity, of course up to a certain maximum amount and, of course, linked to a certain period of time. However, we do want a generous regulation, which will give a strong boost to decentralised generation. In addition, you should look at that weird zip code rose system at the same time. In fact, this is so painful that all kinds of initiatives are being taken. Of course, you can't open up everything, but a flexibilisation of such a postcode rose system would help a lot of initiatives just across the border, so that they can really get started. Moreover, I have heard the CDA say that this is entrapment and that it is very much for decentralised energy generation. Maybe that's an element to talk about. Then I come to the phasing out of the subsidy for the co-incineration of biomass. It is clear that this does not help the sustainability in any case. We can just stop doing that. This is another source of money for the other measures. I hope that with these proposals I have presented a concrete picture of what GroenLinks wants to make practical and concrete adjustments. I'm gonna stick my neck out with that, too. I understand that there are sensitivities involved, but it is a bit of our style to put things on the table. I should like briefly to comment on a few other issues. At the APB is with our warm support the motion Slob (34300, no. 23), which calls for additional funds for first-year refugee reception. This should not be at the expense of development cooperation pathways. I urge the Minister to tell us how he is going to implement this motion. That is essential. If it doesn't come soon, we're going to have to make amends, but then it's going to be very complicated. With increasing amazement and anger we have been able to see Volkswagen's dirty software scandal and it is possible that one of the consequences is that the Dutch government has missed tax revenue. I ask the Secretary of State to reflect on that and, if he sees that it is so and he agrees with me that that opportunity is ready, to have it examined and to claim to the last penny at Volkswagen if there is anything to be done about it. I really think it is a matter of principle; we do not allow ourselves to be addressed by a fraudulent car industry. During the APB there was also broad criticism of the budget of Security and Justice; the problems at V and J cannot be solved only within the budget of V and J, and with that we are in agreement with what many speakers have said. What picture does the Minister have of that? How does he intend to deal with that? As far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is concerned, keeping seven closed courts open is the top priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr. Chairman. In addition to a few points which I will briefly discuss, I have only one important point: you have already guessed it, and that is: the one-earner. Mr Omtzigt is not surprised. The number of earners has fallen considerably, but there are still a million, including the partner who is not working. To be honest, we have a bit of an image problem, because if you ask it here and there, but also if you listen to the cabinet, everyone seems to think that all of the single-earners are voting SGP and that all of the SGP voters are earners. I asked a colleague in the room what his estimate was of the percentage of the SGPs that is a earner and he said: 100%? That percentage is not entirely correct, but frankly we did not know it either. Two weeks ago, during the General Political Reviews, when we asked the Prime Minister for more attention to the single-earner, he said: I understand the political position of the Christian Union and the SGP in terms of the single-earner very well. The Christian Union is therefore immediately taken into account by him. What is the political position of the SGP? We had Maurice de Dog do research, because the figures of the political choice of a earner weren't there. Turns out what? Mostone-earners don't vote SGP but vote VVD: 450,000. Then comes the PvdA: 250,000 or four seats. The VVD: seven seats. Then there's the PVV with 200,000 votes. I said it in an interruption: there are more earners who vote D66 than earners who vote SGP. 1.1 seat of the D66 Group is taken on behalf of householders. In total, one earners account for over twenty seats. And now the key question, at least for many: what percentage of the SGP voters is a earner? The answer is 20%. 80% is not a breadwinner. And that's a very different picture than that which often prevails. 0.6 seat of ours is represented by householders. That being so, you wonder why the breadwinner is always linked to the SGP. Yeah, that's because we stick up for it a lot. Why are we standing up for it? Because we think it's important. Fortunately, this support is being pushed forward. The last motion we tabled together with the CDA and the Christian Union was supported, among other things, by the PVV and the SP. Interestingly enough, that motion has a majority in the Upper House. I would like to ask the cabinet whether it will now also carry out motions which have a majority in the First Chamber. Or should they be filed separately in the First Chamber? Of course you can. At the General Political Reviews we came up with the example of a single-earner family with an income of €40,000 and a two-earner family with an income of €20,000 plus €20,000. The difference in tax between these families is then €8,000 to the disadvantage of the sole earner family. €8,000, so almost €700 per month, one then has less to spend. All kinds of tax arrangements ensure that the two earners have far more benefits than the sole earners. The Prime Minister then replied: that is a very eccentric example, which almost does not happen for the €20,000 plus €20,000 versus €40,000. Then you start calculating and then you look at other types. And what does it turn out to be? The differences are only getting bigger. I have here a paper on which this has been mentioned, including a table on the percentage ofone earner per party, which I would ask you to share, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u92	I'll have it copied and distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you compare a earner's salary of €60,000 with a two-earner's salary of €40.00 and €20,000 or if you compare a earner's salary of €80,000 with a two-earner's salary of €50,000 and €30,000 in all these cases, the difference is more than €8,000 in taxes paid. For many cases, so my theorem, the difference in taxation has thus become very large. This isn't supposed to happen, is it? With these huge tax incentives, the government is affecting citizens' freedom of choice. The distribution of labour and care tasks is not up to the Tax Administration. Let people choose for themselves. The same research by Maurice de Hond reveals that three quarters of the single-earners are not free to choose at all. A quarter of the single-earners, the breadwinners, have a chronically ill or disabled partner. Do these people have a free choice? A quarter wants to work, but can't find a job. Do these people have a free choice? For a quarter there are other reasons not to be eligible for this variant, such as a student partner or a partner who is already retired. In short, three quarters of the single-earners do not have that free choice or you do not want to give them that free choice. However, we focus these very expensive resources on 100% of the single-earners. A quarter stays at home for the kids. That's beautiful. The conclusion is that a large part of the target group has no choice at all, or you don't want them to choose otherwise. Will the government now finally make its own proposals to reduce the gap between one and two earners? This is a very important point for the SGP, including in the decision-making process on the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u94	This does not include the percentage of earners voting for the Van Vliet group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u95	No, I didn't. The n was too small. That's still gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u96	I have the next question. Mr Omtzigt has used the word "wedding tax" in the past and that is a term that has always remained with me. If you're getting married, you're obliged to become a tax partner. That is an abomination; I think it is quite right that Mr Omtzigt made a point of it. By marrying, you will be put in a worse position than other taxpayers who have a choice regime. What does Mr Dijkgraaf think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u97	We've always supported that. In that example, you can indeed ask questions. Why do you do that? Why are you picking that angle? In any case, we are in favour of achieving a much greater balance between the tax advantages of one- and two-earners. One example is the change in the transferable tax rebate, which is constantly being phased out. You can also try to do something about incredibly raising the income-dependent combination discount of the labor discount. All benefits of the two earner are increased and those of the single earner are reduced over time. You could do something about that. If you go to the splitting system, of course you're all set. That's the most ideal thing. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. In view of his background and his choice of party, he should welcome this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u98	I don't know if we're gonna get as far as the splitting system. I understand from Mr Dijkgraaf's words that the SGP is open to constructive proposals from the Van Vliet Group when dealing with the 2016 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u99	The answer is yes. Research shows that more than half of the carers are in severe financial conditions. Reducing the gap between one and two earners would help them. Many carers are in a single earner's position. The problem, however, is wider, and Mrs Schouten said some nice things about'scouting' because often high costs are incurred. At the General Political Reviews is the motion-Van der Staaij c.s. (34300, No. 29) adopted. It calls on the government to inform the Chamber of the possibilities of providing better financial support for carers. Is the government prepared to map the options and, if there are workable options, actually implement them? Finally, I have three small points. The first point concerns the capital efficiency levy. That is what I said in my interruption to Mr Harbers, among other things. We have serious doubts about this. Should we not seek other solutions? How do we deal with situations where you cannot achieve the expected return or where it is sometimes even legally forbidden to achieve it? How has tax evasion been taken into account? I got a nice introduction. There's been some sort of invention of tax evasion constructions. The second point concerns security and justice. I have also spoken about this in the case of interruption. I agree with those colleagues who ask the government whether it is going well and whether a wider budget is not needed. The third and final point concerns the defence budget. Mr Omtzigt has already announced that the CDA Group will table an amendment. We are co-subscribers of this. We hope to achieve an additional 200 million for the Defense Department. That amount is, of course, covered, as I say to the Minister of Finance, who had a lot of questions last time about the coverage when colleagues made all kinds of proposals. That $200 million extra for the Defense Department is properly covered. We think we need more money at the DOD. It's nice that money comes in, but the hole is really too big for what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u100	Mr. Chairman. Also next year our country is not doing well. There are over 600,000 unemployed. The public debt amounts to 466 billion. The government is still spending more money than it is coming in and has not provided a vision of the long-term costs of the huge influx of asylum seekers to our country. All this has to do with the fact that this cabinet is guided by the spirit of social democracy: levelling, punishing success, living on the puffy life and using collective arrangements. This is left-wing politics in a nutshell, under the leadership of the VVD. Public expenditure is too high and is still increasing. Take, for example, the care that we are now spending 44.6 billion on. The collective sector is a caterpillar-never-enough, a caterpillar with morbid obesity. As far as my group is concerned, it is time for a care diet. Bring down costs by starting to stop the waste and, for example, by taking dietary help and stopping smoking courses out of the basic package. But above all: individualise the care as Singapore has done. Where, unfortunately, the Netherlands does not get any further than place 17 on the World Health Organization rankings, Singapore scores spot 6. In addition, Singapore spends not 12 but only 4% of its national income on care. In Singapore, everyone saves on their own health bill. In addition, there is a government-funded safety net for people with less financial capacity, chronically ill and disabled. It is time for change, and especially time for improvement, but this cabinet sticks to the last century and holds on to rising costs, not only for the State but also for the people in the country who are now paying close to their own risk and the monthly care premium. The cabinet needs to look at Singapore. Look over the dikes, I'd like to say. The care there is better and cheaper, so it is a win-win situation. I'd like to hear a response to this. In addition to the concern, our tax system also breathes left-wing politics. 52% income tax is a punishment for working, progressive taxation is one of the most demotivating factors in our economy. A VAT of 21% is nothing but state-grabbing, gift and inheritance taxes are simply rude and the increased excise duties are not doing our country any good either. The beating heart of our economy is suffering from high taxes, high excise duties, the rigid labour market and the poor government. The State seems to be doing everything it can to bring the engine of employment, the backbone of our country, to a halt. This cabinet led by the VVD makes it difficult for entrepreneurs. Luckily, there's another way. My group has shown that it is possible to give the Netherlands air again, to change the tax environment, to reduce the burden and to increase economic growth. Climate change doesn't always have to be scary. I refer to a flat tax of 23% with a duty-free rate of €7,500 which amounts to €15,000, a uniform VAT rate of 15%, 10% lower corporate tax rates, 10% lower excise duties and the release of the majest mandatory supplementary pension. And that without affecting the budget and properly calculated by the Central Planning Office! Our ideas lead to much more purchasing power, to structurally hundreds of thousands of additional jobs and to much higher economic growth. That is exactly what the Netherlands needs. As is often the case, the answer is not more but less government. Individual freedom presupposes economic freedom for everything. So stop taking and pumping tax money. Put the knife in the supplemental system. I'm gonna finish up. Don't make people with lower incomes dependent on the State, take the marginal pressure, facilitate entrepreneurs and let the Netherlands finally reap the benefits of their labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u101	Thank you very much, Mr Van Klaveren. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Vliet, the last speaker in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. I'm just waiting for the left-wing spokesmen to sit down again. Mr. Chairman. This is today's most important budget. Here's him: "Ex-ante budgetary effects against budget 2016 Party Van Vliet." It doesn't say that at my request, because if you cut it short, you get wrong associations. I am pleased that the government has taken the trouble to draw up a counter-budget on the budget of the Van Vliet Group, which has been passed on by the CPB. Yeah, you know what I mean? It is a pity, however, that the EMU balance remains below 1.4% of GDP, where my group calls for a deficit of 1.2%. My first question to the Minister of Finance is therefore why the cabinet opts for such a substantial deficit and not for further reduction of that deficit. The balancing of public finances is an end in itself, or does the Minister see it differently? In addition to these General Financial Reviews, we will discuss the 2016 Tax Plan with the Secretary of State in four phases in October and November. That will be the stage for me to go into a possible reform of the tax system, which I really do not see any more of this cabinet period. I've said it before. Turning tariff buttons is not a reform. Moreover, the political landscape is too fragmented for a broad-based reform. A real substantive reform and simplification also requires a major operation, which takes several years to set up and implement. In addition, in my opinion, the Tax Administration is not adequately equipped for such an operation. Or does the Secretary of State for Finance consider that the Tax Administration could handle such an operation, a reform of the system, already? I would like to have a comprehensive response on this point. My counter-budget, calculated by the CPB, is based on a multitude of amendments to the cabinet's proposals. The reduction in the standard VAT rate from 21% to 20% is particularly obvious. In my view, this will give a strong boost to domestic consumption. I would like to stress that our prosperity is about 70% dependent on domestic consumption and not on the so famous exports, which in the Dutch situation mainly consists of transit, without very much added value per euro exported. Furthermore, I lower the personal risk in the care again to the level of a time ago, namely €220 per year for everyone. In the perception of many Dutch people, it has greatly increased its own risk in the care an abomination. Mind you, I too dare to cut into the care because otherwise the expenditures will rise out of control. I'm also showing that in my counter-budget. But I do not think that the threshold for getting care is the right way there. Then I come, as a really big relief for everyone in the Netherlands, with a substantial reduction in the rate in the first disk of income tax, which gives a strong boost to the purchasing power of the whole of the Netherlands to really enjoy the recently recalled, reduced VAT rate. I am pleased to see that the cabinet reduces the burden on citizens by EUR 4.3 billion. Although the package refers to EUR 5 billion, there is an increase in expenditure of EUR 700 million through the surcharges. Why in my counter-budget do I completely reverse the burden relief from the cabinet? For three reasons. You will see that I, as a liberal, have taken much more as a starting point for the last election programme of the VVD than the VVD itself. Admittedly, I don't see trapped in an unnatural marriage with the Social Democrats, but that doesn't make it any less fun to see that my liberal counter-budget comes to a lower deficit than that of the Cabinet. My cost reduction is also a further EUR 1.5 billion lower on balance. The three reasons for not following the cabinet plan of these 4.3 billion are these: First of all... The cabinet aims to reduce the burden on the reduction and extension of the second and third disks in income tax and to increase the employment discount. This does not benefit many older people and lower income groups. This must then be compensated by the cabinet, through higher fees and a higher old-age discount, even if this is a one-off. I focus that relief mainly on the first disc, so that almost everyone immediately benefits from it and compensation through surcharges and discounts is simply not necessary. I'd like to get the Minister's reaction as to whether that wouldn't be a better march. Secondly, so the second reason to do it in my own way. The cabinet pays part of its fee relief from the total reduction of the general tax rebate. This is an increase of EUR 2 billion which is particularly bad for employment growth. There he is. In my opinion, the cabinet would achieve much more jobs if it did not reduce the tax rebates. Why don't you check with the CPB? The marginal tax burden increases disproportionately when the tax reductions are reduced. Who's gonna work from four to five days a week? I'd like to get a response from the Minister, how he sees it. Third. Why my own package and not the cabinet package? The cabinet spends almost exactly as much money on lowering tax rates as on increasing and expanding various tax facilities, such as the IACK, the labour discount, the elderly discount and, yes, there they are again: the surcharges. That is a question of giving back to fiscal instrumentalism, which I want to get away from. If you have money available for load relief, as Mr Koolmees said, then you have the chance to use this as a bribe to reduce that instrumental function. I'd like to hear from the Minister why he doesn't choose this. I reduce the expenditure on the surcharges by EUR 1.8 billion compared to the cabinet. Does the cabinet still have the ambition to do something about these increases in terms of streamlining and phasing-out? The more you reduce fees, the easier a reform becomes; this becomes a less and less important task. If so, when are we going to hear from the cabinet about the surcharges? Unemployment has been discussed a lot here. Each additional job is a blessing, but 35,000 jobs are simply not enough. What is the government going to do in the remaining parliamentary term to give employment an extra boost? The government's five largest sources of revenue are the payroll tax, which consists of employee insurance contributions and payroll tax, turnover tax, corporation tax, excise duties and public insurance contributions. My question is: how robust are these sources of income, partly in the light of the ageing population and the migrant problem, which is likely to allow the inactive part of the population to grow for the time being? This aside from the declining revenue from gas extraction in Groningen. How robust are these revenue sources in the medium term? Finally, I call on colleagues to embrace my counter-budget. This package should particularly appeal to my Liberal colleagues in the VVD. 17 of the 39 measures I recommend are based on the latest VVD election programme. Of the other 22 also a part comes from the tube of my fellow liberals. All this, of course, is filled with a tasty Van Vliet sauce. I'd say enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-30-tweedekamer-7.u103	This ended the first term of the Chamber in the General Financial Reviews. We'll continue with that tomorrow afternoon. We hope to get some answers in writing.
