ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. It's a busy week in the area of tax avoidance. Yesterday, the OECD presented the much discussed BEPS project, the international approach to tax avoidance. Yesterday it was also announced via Nieuwsuur that tomorrow Jan van Koningsveld will be promoted on the theme of tax avoidance. He has calculated that the alarming amount of 10 billion is the damage that the Netherlands incurs because of tax avoidance. This time it is not a question of tax avoidance by multinationals, which we often talk about here, but rather of wealthy Dutch people. He says this is often about criminals. They use the constructions of a special financial institution, a letterbox company, to channel their money away. He says, as I saw yesterday in the item about Holleeder and Klaas Bruinsma, that they all used such a letterbox company. We could also see that Newshour has recently had its own letterbox company in Seychelles. It's very easy to open your own letterbox company there. That raises questions. Why is it so easy in the Netherlands to open your own letterbox company? I welcome the investigation of Jan van Koningsveld. For years it was mainly this Secretary of State, but also colleagues in the Chamber, who said: you should not speak too loudly about the Netherlands as a tax haven, as a turntable in the whole of which money is being tricked into the Cayman Islands or the Bahamas, because we are making money from it. Now it turns out for the first time that we're losing money on it. That is why I ask the Secretary of State if he is willing to admit that our fiscal environment does not provide us with money at all, but costs us billions of tax revenue. What action does the Secretary of State take against this large-scale money laundering? Finally, is the Secretary of State prepared to review the supervision of letterbox companies? Now that's indirect surveillance. The trust offices do it themselves. The butcher approves his own flesh. Today's reports show that we need to accommodate this, in my opinion at the Dutch Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The promotion isn't till tomorrow, so I don't know the report yet. At least Mr Van Koningsveld has the bad guys in his sights. When it comes to criminals, they are mainly people who do not have a letterbox company here but elsewhere. They put their money in another country, being a tax haven. Of course, they should give that up, but it is money that has not been earned in a fair way. So the bad guys probably don't always do that. I don't know if the estimates are right about that. I haven't checked that out yet. I cannot indicate the basis and I cannot indicate the percentage of 80% and 10%. But there are thieves who keep their money outside the Netherlands and do not pay taxes on it, is of course clear. That they are trying to launder that money is also clear. There are two very good mechanisms against this, and we both use them. Mr Van Koningsveld himself says that it is not very easy and it also takes a lot of time to catch them, but we all agree that transparency is one of the important instruments: knowing what exists, knowing who keeps his money outside the Netherlands. For this we have the WABB, the mutual administrative assistance in the tax treaties. The usual-suspect countries are increasingly under pressure to join. This has developed enormously since 2010. We need to be able to get more and more information out of it. The other thing we need to do is to encourage cooperation. That is what we are doing, for example, with the anti-money laundering centre, the Anti-money laundering centre, as we have called it, in order to indicate that it is international money laundering. The police, the FIOD and the Tax Administration work together, including in the international exchange. Those are the two things we're betting on. I assume the PhD candidate's gonna bring them up tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u3	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering one of my three questions. The Secretary of State has always said that the tax environment in the Netherlands is very good for our treasury. SEO calculated that that would bring us 3 billion to 4 billion. However, this study shows that the Netherlands could cost 10 billion. Will the Secretary of State finally admit that this is perhaps the essence of the fact that the tax environment in the Netherlands is not at all good for the Dutch taxpayer? Is he prepared to evaluate the estimates this PhD candidate is talking about as soon as possible and share the results with the Chamber? I also asked about the State Secretary's willingness to strengthen the supervision of the letterbox offices. The Court of Auditors has pointed this out before. €16 billion is laundered annually in the Netherlands, using these trust offices. Is the Secretary of State finally prepared to take good care of supervision? There's a lot we can't do, but we can do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u4	I think there's been a persistent misunderstanding here. The examples mentioned by Mr Klaver relate to the so-called letterbox companies in the Netherlands. However, these kinds of people are concerned with offshore companies. These are also sort of letterbox companies, but elsewhere, in real tax havens. If something is leaking away to a real tax haven, it will obviously cost the Netherlands money and then it will also be illegal assets which, of course, have cost us money in one way or another. It is clear that this type of practice costs the Netherlands money. It is clear that we must go after this. As far as I am concerned, it is also clear that we are doing this by cooperating internationally and by creating as much transparency as possible in the circuit. I agree with Mr Klaver on this, but I think that the rest of his questions are actually based on a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u5	The essence of the questions I asked was whether the Secretary of State would like to admit that our fiscal environment is not at all good for the Netherlands and for the taxpayer. It's actually costing us more than it gets us. That it is all done by people who do not have the best interests of us and who break the law, but will the Secretary of State admit that we in the Netherlands have the possibility of being a tax paradise? The Secretary of State is constantly talking about those companies, those letterbox companies established in other countries. Often a letterbox company in the Netherlands is used to bring the money there. In the Netherlands, a letterbox company is then rigged to channel money to those countries and then to another letterbox company. This brings me to the call for a much stricter control of this sector. Surely it is too bizarre for words to say that there is an enormous amount of money being laundered, that money is being lost, that we are missing taxpayers' money and that the sector is not under the control of, for example, the Dutch Bank, but that we have been able to approve the sector for years. I find that incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u6	This has not so much to do with our fiscal climate, as Mr Klaver called it, as with the fiscal climate on the other side of the line, in many cases an island. The mailboxes here aren't the core. It's about the mailboxes elsewhere. The Netherlands is therefore not a tax haven, but the country which indeed loses tax revenue, including those who simply break the law, not only in obtaining the money, but also in giving up their assets if they are Dutch taxpayers. That is, I think, the subject, the suffering that the PhD candidate is going to discuss tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u7	These are, of course, tax evaders. They don't follow the law. Now the functional parquet in response to the broadcast says: we have expertise and knowledge. There's one thing it doesn't say: we don't have enough capacity. The fraud officer says we don't have enough people. I have a very clear question for the Secretary of State. Can he guarantee that at the functional parquet and at the FIOD there is sufficient capacity to hunt for tax evaders and to give every signal about tax evasion the full attention it deserves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u8	If we have seen such broadcasts, it is always attractive to say that we need more capacity on them. We, as individuals, will also agree with that. After the broadcast after that, we need more capacity. It remains a consideration of where capacity should be deployed and where it should come from. The allocation of capacity is left to the professionals. They weigh the effort and the chance of success. I think that a little Question Time with the Secretary of State for Finance is not the time to re-allocate the capacity in the legal criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u9	The former Secretary of State always said, "Now I'm gonna go black-spare, and now I'm gonna go after the criminals." Those criminals aren't just people who got money illegally. It's people who hid that money. That's enough to make it criminal. What is this Secretary of State going to do to increase that capacity? In fact, he does not answer that question, although that was what Mr Speijers pointed out yesterday at Nieuwsuur. We can all do it, but we don't have enough capacity. Will the Secretary of State expand that capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u10	Can I at least point out that black-sparing has been dealt with to an important extent? That has set my predecessor in motion, paying tribute to him. This is done not only through transparency, but also through the repentance scheme. Mr Merkies and I have often grinned each other on this subject, to our mutual happiness. Again on capacity: I do not think it is up to the Secretary of State for Finance in Question Time to achieve a redistribution of capacities in the criminal justice chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u11	I did not understand anything about Mr Klaver's confused speech. He was incredibly against himself. My question to the Secretary of State is: are we going to go after some kind of promotion together, which shows that it is all badly regulated here, or can the Secretary of State confirm that we are not a tax haven and that this story will not change anything at all to our very robust tax system?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u12	I have already said that I do not think the Netherlands is a tax haven. I have also said that the practices that are taking place here have nothing to do with the Dutch tax environment. They're dealing with bad guys who put black money somewhere else and don't give it up to the IRS. That's wrong. I agree with Mr Van Vliet, but I also agree with the previous speakers that we must of course pursue this. It happens in all kinds of ways. I have just mentioned a number of initiatives that are relatively young. There is no doubt that we have to go after this, but that does not have much to do with the Dutch tax climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u13	The Secretary of State said that he could not indicate the amount of 129 billion and the missed tax revenue of 10 billion. Is the Secretary of State prepared to respond within a few weeks to that dissertation that will appear tomorrow and indicate those amounts? That's my first question. My second question is this. When it comes to very large amounts of perhaps 129 billion, does the Secretary of State consider a team of ten tax inspectors on a team of very wealthy people sufficient?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u14	If a member of the House of Representatives asks me to give an explanation of a report that will come out tomorrow, I am of course happy to admit it. That's the information I'm gonna try to get on the table. I would like to point out to Mr Groot that the starting team of highly wealthy individuals has nothing to do with the capacity used in the Netherlands to catch international crooks and dismantle these kinds of offshore structures. That has nothing to do with it. Those are really other greats.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u15	I'm a little surprised. Mr Klaver wrote recently that he usually let Question Time go because it is so fleeting, but well, he has now asked questions. When I read the announcement of the investigation, it hasn't been published yet, so I don't have it yet, and the Secretary of State probably doesn't either, then I find that on the one hand it's about criminals who apparently hide money obtained from crime safely. We always have to do that. This will have to be discussed in the coming weeks and months, including with the Justice Department. It seems to be suggested to the other that almost all the rich would have hidden money away. That is why I think it is right to get a picture before about every asset is declared as a criminal, which part of the wealthiest part of the wealthiest part of it is. What happens around the exchange of information?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u17	Does this exchange take place with countries? What are we going to do to expand the too slow network?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u18	I do not think that anyone in this Chamber wants to take responsibility for the idea that wealthy individuals, by a majority, withhold their money. In my opinion, that is not even the PhD candidate's theorem, because it refers to offshore structures and not all individuals use them. Moreover, for me the 80% has not yet been established. We'll read the report and see what's in it. I shall then give the explanation that Mr Groot has just asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mrs Neppérus, a second question, but briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u20	I agree with Mr Groot. We too would like to receive this explanation quickly, at least in a reasonable time, so that we can continue to talk on that basis. Sounds like the Secretary of State is willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u22	The CBS statistics show that Dutch households, excluding their own homes, own EUR 700 billion. The Secretary of State writes to the Chamber that he charges 400 billion euros in box 3. So somewhere we are missing EUR 300 billion. This PhD candidate thinks he has found EUR 129 billion of this. The government wants to tax the EUR 400 billion differently. The CDA says: shall we see where the 300 billion is, so that the people who now pay taxes on their savings in box 3 will have to pay less, and the people who now pay nothing will also pay? Is the Secretary of State prepared to go into the EUR 300 billion gap in the letter, which hopefully comes before the tax plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u23	It's raining numbers from different sources now. The real economists behind Mr Omtzigt know that you cannot just subtract numbers from different sources. That is a risky fact, so I am not responding to the number Mr Omtzigt calls. It is tempting, by the way, that I began my speech by saying that there are potential tax revenues there that we can collect. It's not that simple. I think we should do everything we can to ensure that the money comes in. I'll give you an explanation in the letter. As far as I am concerned, it has nothing to do with proposals contained in the tax plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr Omtzigt, a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u25	It has everything to do with that, because the government is going to tax power differently. Now there is a large category that pays nothing, while the ordinary payer pays and continues to pay. As far as we are concerned, it would be better if everyone paid but a lower rate. So it has everything to do with it. The CDA Group will be asking those questions, tomorrow, during its input on the tax plan. The questions are already ready. We would like to see the answers to those questions. Finding back that EUR 300 billion can make those who pay their taxes fairly pay a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u26	Tackling tax avoidance can in all cases lead to more revenue. In all cases, this could mean that the others would have to pay less, but I deny that there is a direct link between them. In fact, I have been looking forward to Mr Omtzigt's questions for some time now, as he knows, with great interest. That is a truly sincere remark, in which there is no sign of cynicism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u27	I'm glad you explained this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u28	I hear the Secretary of State telling us to go after it. I also hear him say that he does not place any other emphasis on his staff in Question Time, because the priorities have already been set. I ask the Secretary of State: the money that comes into an offshore structure must come back onshore at some point. Is there not a possibility to gain insight into the course of these money flows through a publicly accessible register? On this point there is also the vote on the Klever motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u29	There are two registers that can be referred to. On the one hand, there is, of course, the central shareholder register. I believe that there is a motion from the Labour Party or at least co-signed by the Labour Party. On the other hand, there is the construct of the Ultimate Beneficial Owner. I just want to know which one it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u30	About the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u31	The latter is an international initiative. This is currently being implemented by the Ministry of Security and Justice. This could once again contribute to the transparency that I have always mentioned and so applauded. So I fully agree that this can contribute. The fact that this has to be implemented in the Netherlands is also a clear fact. In my view, therefore, we do not differ in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u32	Your second question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u33	So what would it take to do now with some urgency? Is it up to the Chamber or should the cabinet take a next step to get this done very quickly in the Netherlands, so that we have a public register and so that we can contain that flow of money if these numbers are correct? What can we do in favour of our own treasury?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u34	I think that is a very good question, but we are so far beyond the limits of my portfolio that I do not remember the answer to it. I can imagine that I will process the answer in the letter that Mr Groot has just asked. Then it's gonna be a good answer. Otherwise, I'm just wandering around about other people's policy areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you very much for coming to the Chamber and for your answers. Thank you for the commitments you made during this Question Time. That concludes oral Question Time.
