ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and Secretary of State for Security and Justice to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is, in a way, a continuation of the debate on the state of the rule of law that we held in spring 2014. However, the subject is getting a special focus due to the terrible events in Paris last week. We are aware that we must take 'everything' out of the box in order to guarantee our security, but at the same time stand firm for our democratic rights and freedoms. The values that we hold high in our society will not be diminished by threats. It is not very common for us in this Chamber to deal explicitly with the department's budget. This time there is a clear reason for this. At the start of this debate, however, I would like to begin by thanking the two leaders for the great commitment they have made to their work over the past year. It was a year of heavy issues such as the rise of jihadism, the threat to our security and the large groups of refugees at the borders of Europe under terrible conditions. I therefore begin by congratulating the two directors and their officials. I do this, contrary to the good Dutch custom, only to speak on topics where there is criticism. I will, of course, take advantage of the opportunity to do so, but I would also like to say a few positive things. For example, we are happy to live in a rule of law in which we have an independent judiciary which is generally highly trusted by the citizens, and the independent visitation committee high-quality justice. But this is the first time that I have made my critical comments, and that is the quality that you have to maintain. During this budget debate, I would like to confine my speech to this subject, thereby ignoring other issues that are not yet going well, such as the organisation of the police and the performance in the criminal justice chain. I would like to receive an explanation from the directors on this matter. On the subject of security, I will make another comment in my conclusion. Ensuring the quality of justice was the main topic of the debate on the state of the rule of law that we held in this Chamber on 11 March 2014. It was about the dilemma between good justice as a common good on the one hand and the scarcity of public resources responsible for guaranteeing this common interest on the other. So a competent, independent and impartial judiciary to which every citizen can effectively rely. This is a fundamental right which the government has also explicitly recognised, in which, following Mrs Lokin-Sassen's motion, it has indicated that access to justice will also be included in the Constitution as a fundamental right. However, restrictions on this fundamental right may be introduced through legal deadlines and certain financial thresholds, but these restrictions are again limited by strict conditions as a legitimate objective necessary in a democratic society and requirements of proportionality and proportionality. I would now like to point out that these restrictions not only cover the demand side of the demand side of the Justitiables, but also mean that on the supply side of the supply side, the courts are taking measures to ensure that performance is as efficient as possible. It is not appropriate just to complain about too little money; also the hand in its own bosom and if necessary the belt a little tighter. For example, alternatives are being sought for procedures for the public court: arbitration, mediation and small claims courts; but that doesn't mean anything. After all, only 4% of all disputes are brought before a court. Alternative enforcement pathways such as administrative fines and OM are already widely used. And since 60% of the procedures involve the government itself, we cannot do any more business without the judgment of an independent body. In addition, innovative methods and techniques are being worked hard within the judiciary: short, compelling deadlines, product development in the workplace.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The e-canton judge came in and in March there was a successful e-justice congress where concrete plans were discussed. One of these is the KEI programme (Quality and Innovation case law), an interesting piece of work and, in principle, a good step forward. Here, however, there is a call for a major switch from the members of the judiciary, and they are taking a positive view of this despite the fact that they are hampered by two handicaps. Firstly, during the major reorganisation of the revision of the judicial card, which has not yet been completed, the judicial procedure must also continue. Secondly, there will be new cuts for 2015 and 2016 that will intervene deeply in the organisation. In addition, KEI will not be financed or only partially. With this combination of measures, I refer to the report of the Cohen Committee on the organisation's rack. As a result, quality aspects of time and space for reflection, study, intervision and feedback are under-exposed. In the agreement with the Court of Justice for 2014-2016, 26.5 million was made available to maintain the balance between workload and quality, but there is nothing on the table for friction costs in the reorganisation and investment in KEI. And, I quote Cohen: "If quality care is underestimated, problems arise." Then we come to the limitations of the influx. These are mainly financial thresholds. We now see that access to justice is severely restricted by this cabinet. We see a accumulation of measures: increased registry fees, higher own contributions and lower compensation for legal aid providers. Structurally, 85 million has been cut in the two latter categories, while 115 million have been surrendered since 2010. In addition, there are proposals for a further significant increase in registry fees, on average by 15%. For civil and cantons this is already the sixth increase since 2010. Under the current law you already have to collect a claim of €510 if you have a single person, to pay an amount of €462 to the Registry. Of course, a moderate right of registry is permissible to counter "frivolous claims," as it is called in international literature. However, this is hardly the case in the Netherlands. In addition, it appears that registry fees will become and will be imposed which may sometimes exceed the cost of the proceedings in question. At least that applies to cantons and a number of civil cases. This means that we are talking about a straight cut or just a tax to close budget gaps. It is very important that the consequences of this fall to the least well-off. After all, 36% of the inhabitants of the Netherlands use legal aid and 80% of the expenditure is for the part that is at the aid threshold. In addition, these are landlords who are left with unpaid rent medals, shopkeepers who are not paid their bills and telecom providers and energy suppliers who will recover their irrecoverable claims by increasing consumer prices. According to "The Economist" of 1 November last year, the 25% cut in legal aid introduced by the UK Government has resulted in the removal of the selection mechanism, i.e. the gatekeeper function of the legal profession and thus delays in business handling, more procedures and a reduction in the quality of dispute resolution. Of course, we know that the UK has a different right of procedure, so that these figures cannot be taken over, but it is by no means imaginable that the result of excessive cuts is counterproductive and that the trend we have seen is a warning to us. These critical comments are part of the policy debate on the cuts in legal aid and access to justice requested in the Kox motion. Today we are actually having this policy debate, but the cuts and taxes imposed are so dominant that we do not have legal aid in the design and structure of the system review. Now it's about more money for V and J. The CDA's Second Parliamentary Group has always asked for an extra 100 million for Security and Justice in a 'counter-budget' - for the rule of law and for security. The latter subject requires, rightly, new or at least additional activities. The threat posed by jihadism calls for a strong integrated approach. The proposed action programme will therefore cost more money. Also for cybersecurity, the directors promise an extra step. We support the need for this. So let us all be so realistic and face the additional costs. We must also realise that research has shown that there is a multiplier on the costs of justice and its social benefits. This means that for every EUR 100 million in justice, society gets back or saves 400 million. Failure to accompany a divorce can lead to a divorce with sickness and absenteeism. Failure to recover claims leads to poor payment morals and a brake on economic transactions. The costs of the case-law weigh on the budget of V and J, but the proceeds or savings come for the benefit of other departments. There is therefore every reason for the directors of V and J to have a look at "out of the box." We ask you to leave out these cuts on this small part of public spending that has such a big impact. We are talking about the cuts in justice that are putting irresponsible pressure on the organisation, and about the cuts in legal aid that frustrate access to justice. We must also realise that in 2014 expenditure on the judiciary did not exceed €62 per capita or 0.39% of public expenditure. I therefore urge the leaders to take these cuts out of the much wider categories of government budget. Now think "out of the box," outside the compartment of only one department. The executives of V and J have good arguments to ask their colleagues from EZ, SZW and VWS for a part of what the department V and J will save for the other departments. Moreover, the Minister for Finance has just mentioned a number of windfalls. We are talking about cuts in justice, which puts irresponsible pressure on the organisation, and reductions in legal aid which frustrate access to justice. We must also realise that in 2014 expenditure on the judiciary did not exceed €62 per capita or 0.39% of public expenditure. I therefore urge the leaders to take these cuts out of the much wider categories of government budget. Now think "out of the box," outside the compartment of only one department. The directors of V and J have good arguments to ask their colleagues from EZ, SZW and VWS to share the savings made by the department for V and J. Moreover, the Minister of Finance recently mentioned a number of windfalls. In the debate on 11 March, we have already made a strong appeal to the government to regard justice as a collective good and not merely as a cost. In doing so, my group has indicated that it will apply this principle strictly to the forthcoming legislative proposals. So the Minister and the Secretary of State were warned. I hope that they will correct the points raised and await their reply, and I hope they will do so, with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u3	Madam President. The massive march last Sunday afternoon in Paris in response to the horrible events earlier that week shows how deeply rooted the values of the rule of law and the associated freedoms are in our society. It is a privilege that we can talk today about the V and J budget. The Kox motion adopted during the General Political Reviews gives rise to the budget debate we are having today. Since my group did not participate in the written consultation on the AMvB system renewal of legal aid, it hesitated to participate in this debate. However, access to the courts of the state is a subject that is very close to my group's heart. That is why, on behalf of my group, I will zoom in on the subject of access to justice, more specifically the registry rights, and also make some comments and ask questions on other issues relating to the V and J budget. For the record, as a lawyer, I do not grant funded legal aid and that said AMvB does not affect my daily work. I will begin with access to justice and, more specifically, registry rights. During the debate on the state of the rule of law earlier this year, my group expressed concern about a further increase in registry rights. The bill to enable this increase is still under discussion in the House of Representatives. Well, technically, this Chamber isn't up to it yet. Since the corresponding cuts are part of the budget that we are discussing today, my group wishes to raise the proposed increase. During this debate, my group referred to an investigation by the Council of Justice. This showed that companies are more likely to refrain from proceeding to court as a result of the increase in registry fees already implemented. This was particularly true for collection claims, which is particularly detrimental to small and medium-sized enterprises and individual citizens. The second letter of amendment, which is now before the House of Representatives, shows that it is proposed that the Registry fees for collection claims in particular should be reduced by 30%. That's good news. It is also not so bad with the registry rights for administrative cases. These are not significantly increased; this is a few euros. However, the registration fees in appeal and appeal proceedings are increased. The pain is then mainly in civil cases from EUR 1 million. The Council's examination of the caselaw shows that only 9% of the cases have an appeal, of which 5% are brought before the Supreme Court. Can the Government indicate whether and how the proposed increase in civil appeals and in cassation contributes to the total cost of justice? If the threshold for appeal and cassation is further raised, this means that fewer cases reach the Supreme Court. Apart from a reduction in legal protection for those seeking justice, this is not in the interests of legal development either. This brings me to the following. The increase in registry fees has been motivated to achieve austerity. The Minister's model was based on a certain p, i.e. the amount of registry fees payable, and a certain q, i.e. the quantity of cases. It's not unthinkable that when the p goes up, the q goes down. Has the Minister taken this into account? Can the Minister state what the effects of increasing the p, the registry fees, are on the q he assumes? If, in fact, the increase in registry fees leads to less q, then the State still receives less revenue and the Minister cannot fully achieve the cuts. Justice is and will continue to be expensive. At the same time, justice may also cost a bit. We are talking here about the heart of our democratic rule of law. Justice as a means of channeling disputes, with important features of equality of law, legal certainty and predictability, plays an important role in our democratic rule of law. Partly because of this, we live in one of the most prosperous countries in the world. Access to justice must continue to be guaranteed. Now it is true that the state justice for the middle class has been unattainable for years or perhaps even forever. On one side of the spectrum are the under- and under-privileged who are eligible for publicly funded legal aid. On the other side of the spectrum are the large companies, banks and insurers and governments which usually also have sufficient resources to maintain long-term legal proceedings. For the largest group, the group that sits between the wealthiest and the poorest, I also referred to in the previous debate as the sandwich class.............................................................................................................................................................................................. This is not affected by the cuts in legal aid and the adjustment of registry rights. Is it not time to think in depth about alternative forms of financing of justice for this group? This sandwich class is not eligible for public-funded legal aid. Are there no other forms of process financing? Of course, we know the alternative to legal aid insurance. In addition, you see initiatives as those of litigation funding: in litigation specialized financiers examine the probability of a case, then decide whether or not to finance it, and if the funded person wins the case, the financier gets a certain percentage of the proceeds. If the funded loses, he won't have a penny of pain. How does the government view such initiatives? On this subject, too, the VVD Group believes that we cannot and cannot expect everything from the government. Is the government prepared to examine what alternative forms of process financing exist and how they could possibly be stimulated? I also noticed at the expert meeting on 24 November that one of the experts stated that 30% of those eligible for funded legal aid also took out legal aid insurance themselves. The proposed cut in public-funded legal aid now focuses very much on the fees for lawyers and those for their own contributions. However, such a percentage could also be used to justify the 30% reduction in the number of persons seeking legal aid financed. How does the government view this? I have a few more legal questions. The rules of registry laid down in the law are based on a balance of different values and interests. The importance of easy access to justice has been weighed against that of effective and efficient administration of justice. For administrative law, the other party is required to make a balance between the importance of the case and the costs involved in the treatment. The imposition of the Registry Law has been found to be an appropriate instrument to accompany that assessment. How did the government balance the different values and interests in the proposed adjustment of the Registry duties? The right of access to justice enshrined in Article 6 of the ECHR and Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union limits the legislator's freedom to regulate registry law at its own discretion. Registry law may not be set at such a high level as to substantially impede access to justice. However, the right of access is not absolute. Whether the Registry law is too high must be assessed on a case-by-case basis. The absolute level of the right, the financial position of the person concerned and the stage of the proceedings for which the right is levied are relevant. For the sake of time, I refer to a judgment of 28 March 2014 which is very interesting in the light of this discussion. Is the Government aware of this judgment and, if so, does it take this into account in the further development of the adaptation of registry duties? Today we are not debating the bill on the increase in registry fees, but on the budget of the Minister for Security and Justice. If the Chamber agrees to the budget, this means that the Minister is authorized to do the total expenditure and, if necessary, to move within the budget between the budget lines. Can the Minister confirm this to my group? It is an important question for my group. My group would like to raise a few other issues relating to the budget, first of all as a result of the events in Paris. In autumn 2014, we held a debate on cyber intelligence and cybercrime. The role and capabilities of the intelligence services were discussed in detail at that time. In view of the developments in recent weeks, does the Minister consider that the intelligence services still have sufficient capacity to collect the necessary information and share it with other intelligence services if necessary? The Minister also presented several anti-terrorism legislative proposals to the House of Representatives, including in the framework of his action plan on jihadism. There are also a few for consultation in the social field, for example the bill that must regulate that the Dutchmanship of a jihad traveller can be taken away. Can the Minister state the state of play and what timetable he envisages? Furthermore, the Minister of V and J is taking an active part in the proposed revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It is a complex operation, in which the code is amended by no less than 19 legislative proposals. It seems to my group to be an almost hasty operation. My group understands the ambition, but not the haste when it comes to reviewing such a fundamental building block of our law. Can the Minister respond to this and indicate what the planning is? There is considerable efficiency gains in the handling of the ZSM cases. What many suspects and especially young suspects do not seem to realize is that if they cooperate with such a ZSM handling they will still get a criminal record. A young person who drinks too much alcohol on Saturday night on a violation and who is proposed to pay the fine immediately does not realize that. Is the government aware of this and, if so, what is it doing about it? Although the legislative proposal itself for prisoners is pending in the House of Representatives, the budget of V and J already anticipates the savings to be made. Has the government taken into account the effect of its own contribution on successful rehabilitation of the inmate? The judge will also be able to take this contribution into account when measuring the penalty. Does the government recognise this and, if so, how has it been taken into account in the legislative proposal? How's the KEI program going? What about the new ICT infrastructure? Are safety nets provided in case the courts do not have their ICT infrastructure in order? Finally, I come to fundamental rights. At the beginning of my speech I referred to the debate earlier this year on the state of the rule of law. During that debate, my group discussed the importance of maintaining the principles of the rule of law, including fundamental rights and the right to privacy. These issues are not included in the V and J budget, while privacy is inextricably linked to the rule of law. Can the government explain this lack and indicate how we should see it in the light of the earlier debate and its vision of the role of the rule of law? Will the Government confirm that the importance of privacy protection is also fully in relation to information systems and information ecosystems and that the government's previous commitments on this issue are still valid? Madam President. My group is looking forward to the government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u4	Madam President. Before I begin my actual contribution to this debate, I would like to take this opportunity to make the best wishes on behalf of my group for 2015, not the solemn best wishes that we always send out so ferociously in the first days of the year, but sincerely and sincerely the best wishes. It's been a long time since they were so much needed. Until a small week ago, I had a very different, grossly dry and technical input in this debate about policy choices, cuts, burden increases, performance in the criminal justice chain and so on. Last week's terrorist attacks in France made it painfully clear that this is not at the heart of the matter. What matters is the democratic rule of law. It would have been a nice thing for me to have another debate on the state of the rule of law again this year, as we did for the first time in March 2014. Our democratic rule of law is under constant threat both from within and from outside. In the light of the events in France, I begin with the threats from outside. When Chérif and Saïd Kouachi invaded the editors of the magazine Charlie Hebdo in Paris and massacred there, they were not concerned with freedom of speech. Chérif and Saïd Kouachi didn't come here to attack freedom of speech. They came to avenge their prophet, and as their ideology dictates, it was accompanied by excessive violence and unprecedented cruelty. For the Chérifs and Saids of this world only Islam counts. They have no regard for laws and regulations, freedom of the press, freedom of expression, the State's monopoly of violence or any rule of law. They knowingly place themselves outside the legal context and thus constitute the greatest threat to our rule of law and to all the rights, freedoms and guarantees that our rule of law stands for in 2015. Our society seems to have the greatest difficulty to see where the threat comes from. I have followed the media over the past week with increasing amazement. Disgusting, sadness, compassion and expressions of support; it has touched me to the bone and I have them sharp on the retina to this day. Quite frankly, however, the pertinent refusal to name what it really was about was Islamic terrorism. The English have a wonderful expression for it: the elephant in the room. Politicians, cabaretists and opinion-makers made an Islamic revenge action with a very concrete cause without problems abstract as an attack on freedom of expression and thus offered a completely different motive for this act of terror. And what amazes me when I read the V and J budget that we are discussing here today? The word "islam" or "Islamic" does not occur once, but "jihadism" does. My group would like to hear from the Minister whether the cabinet believes that jihadism has nothing to do with Islam, just as the cabinet believes that the Islamic State has nothing to do with Islam. Islam has declared war on us, and not every Muslim is a terrorist, of course, but almost every terrorist has turned out to be a Muslim lately. Whether it is the attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels, the murder of a British soldier in the London Woolwich, ISIS demonstrations in The Hague or the slaughter of Charlie Hebdo's editors and everything that followed: as long as there is a collective blind spot for the elephant in the room, an adequate approach to the problem is still far away. We cannot ignore it: our rule of law is under attack. Speaking of jihadism, I would like to inform the Minister's PVV group whether, after what has happened in France, he is prepared to review the policy with regard to returning jihadists. Does the Minister now share the view of the PVV that the return of jihadists implies an irresponsible security risk and should therefore be made impossible? Chérif and Saïd Kouachi were returned jihadists, at least one of them. And yes, they were watched by the French security services until the summer of 2014. I do not need to explain that we do not live in the summer of 2014. My reflections on the foreign events I am leaving here for a moment for what they are. After all, there is a budget that is much more than that, and other events, of course, deserve attention. As far as the budget is concerned, my group's position is relatively simple: the government rules and requires money. Government without a budget is not an option. The choices made by this government are sometimes far too often not the choices made by the PVV. As far as my group is concerned, however, the budgetary debate is not an opportunity to go into this in detail. Our views are clear and will always be highlighted in the consideration of future legislative proposals. However, one concern is that the budget itself must have a sufficient level of reality. That is where the problem lies as far as we are concerned. The PVV Group notes that the budget anticipates an increase in registry fees and cuts in subsidised legal aid. The KEI programme also seems to be expected to be quite a bit. In March 2014, this Chamber debated the state of the rule of law. At that time it became clear that various groups in this Chamber, including mine, are extremely critical of the increase in registry fees and the cuts in subsidised legal aid. As early as March 2014, there were several warnings that access to justice and justice would be under pressure. I myself have indicated that a limit seems to have been reached. The PVV Group is, of course, in favour of efficient use of resources, but that is different from the fact that whole groups are de facto excluded from legal protection. We will have the debate in more detail when the cabinet's proposals are submitted to this Chamber, but a majority in this Chamber does not seem to my group for the time being to be sure. On the contrary, it is not excluded that these proposals will have the same fate as the proposal on electronic detention. The aim was also to save money. This political reality raises the question of this minister's plan B if his proposals do not fall. How are the gaps in the budget closed? The same applies to the perhaps optimistic expectation of the KEI programme: an ambitious and promising programme that can be fully endorsed, but it is doubtful whether we will reap the benefits of this in 2015. In the light of the experience with digitalising authorities, my group has a hard mind about this for the time being. The practice is often more aggressive than the theory, and now that we are not talking about crumbs but about substantial amounts, my group would like to hear from the Minister how deficits are eliminated if these proposals and measures do not deliver what they are expected to do. My group awaits the Minister's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. When we in the Chamber agreed to hold this budget debate, we could not see what gloomy clouds would converge over the national security of the European countries. The terrible terrorist attacks in Paris have touched us all deeply. My group has great respect for what our Prime Minister said about this at the demonstration meeting in De Dam on Thursday. My group also has great respect for his participation and that of the Minister for Security and Justice in the Paris memorial march last Sunday. It is appropriate for many reasons that we, as Dutch, are now one with the French. One is that their French revolutional ideals of freedom, equality and brotherhood have had a huge positive impact on the development of Dutch society. Apart from the Constitution, these ideals have been further developed in our contemporary rule of law and anchored in directly functioning provisions of European and global human rights treaties. It is precisely for the sake of these guiding ideals of freedom, equality and fraternity that the rule of law must be kept high and cool. From that institution, on behalf of my group, I would like to briefly address a number of different issues in this budgetary and policy debate. First of all, this is the fight against Dutch jihadgoers through law. Secondly, that is the quality of the case law in the Netherlands. Thirdly, there is the question of how to deal with the decision of the European Economic and Social Committee of the Council of Europe on emergency aid to asylum seekers who have been displaced. The problem of jihad-goers from the Netherlands is of a recent date, but we recognise that tackling it is a matter of great urgency. We really need to make every effort to prevent the radicalisation of Muslim youths, of course in close cooperation with the Muslim community in the Netherlands and with youth care agencies. A purely repressive approach will not produce sufficient results. Of course, prosecution and trial must be carried out if there is a serious suspicion that criminal offences have been committed. The report of the JHA Council at the beginning of December, which the government sent to us, states that Eurojust has found that there are gaps in criminal law in the Member States and that it has made recommendations to fill them, including in order to comply with Security Council Resolution 2178 (2014). Has Eurojust or the Dutch Government, have both also identified gaps in our criminal law? In addition, the question arises as to what policy is to be pursued with regard to returned jihadists if it is not immediately established that they have committed crimes. The intelligence services will undoubtedly follow their trade and walk closely. Good European and international cooperation is very important. Do the rulers think that they can also draw inspiration from the so-called Danish method, which sees it as a public task to receive returned jihadists and provide expert spiritual care aimed at rehabilitation? That is my first question to the government on this issue. The second question concerns the use of nationality law; Mrs Duthler already asked a single question on this subject. The government announced at some point that the intention to take away jihadgoers from the Netherlands was part of the "compromiseless struggle" against Dutch jihadists. Minister Opstelten indicated that, where appropriate, he would take such a decision himself and not want to follow the path of criminal prosecution if it is difficult for the prosecution to obtain a case of evidence in full. My group questions such an approach from a legal point of view. We are, of course, waiting for the proposals. It is, of course, a fundamental right that every individual has the right to a nationality. The State must therefore not simply deprive an individual of his nationality, but, where appropriate, his passport. Does the government recognise that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship for serious criminal conduct in our rule of law should preferably be the task of a judge, on the basis of criminal prosecution and trial on the basis of sound evidence by the prosecution? Does the Government also recognise that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship under European and international law is only possible if the person found guilty has another nationality besides the Netherlands? In other words: does the government recognise that the European Convention on Nationality, to which the Netherlands is a party, as well as the UN Convention on the Protection of Resistant Persons, do not allow the government to deprive a person of nationality on the grounds of criminal conduct if it would render the person concerned stateless? Let it be particularly clear from these questions that my group also wants to follow the trail of criminal law when jihadists from the Netherlands commit crimes. In this context, I would like to ask whether the organisation and capacity of the Public Prosecutor in this regard are sufficient or need to be strengthened in the light of recent developments. One of the government officials sent out a very bad tweet about ISIS and Zionists. The Minister suspended her right away and denied her access to the Justice Buildings. This happened at the beginning of September last year. I assume that legal measures have now been taken. Have these been brought before the courts? On October 24, 2014, on the Day of the United Nations, we could read at NU.nl worried that a police officer in the Rotterdam Rijnmond region had posted an equally repulsive message with very offensive statements about Islam and Muslims on Facebook. I'm not going to quote it here. It is good that the police summit in Rotterdam immediately distanced itself from this. At the beginning of my speech I pointed out the great good of equality of law: equal monks, equal hoods. Does the government consider such statements by a police teacher to be totally inappropriate and unacceptable? Does the government consider legal measures appropriate not only against its official Yasmina H. but also against police officer and also lecturer Nico G.? The second issue I am referring to on behalf of the Labour Party concerns quality management within justice. It was of course turbulent times, which culminated in the cry of distress through the so-called Leeuwarder Manifest. We also discussed this with the government in our debate on the state of the rule of law and the quality of justice. My group has taken note with great interest of the visitation court report 2014 from the Committee-Cohen named after its chairman. This commendable report also shows that in a short period of time there has been a great deal of progress towards the judiciary: digitisation, reorganisation, renewal and a great workload, to mention only a few points, without any additional resources. The Court of Justice points this out in its opinion on the Cohen report as "too much at the same time" and, with the Cohen Committee, as "the rack is out." I ask the government to respond to this. One of the main recommendations of the Cohen Committee is that more time should be devoted to essential quality activities in order to maintain the quality of justice in the Netherlands. After all, when the workload is high, the first thing that is at stake is the activities in the area of reflection and the keeping of professional knowledge, the Cohen Committee points out. My question is how the government intends to contribute to an efficient approach to the workload, with the aim of reducing it, and promoting continuous training of the judiciary, with the aim of quality assurance and improving the quality of justice. Without going along with our great opposition party CDA in asking for extra money, I merely ask if the Minister can see any possibility of making a contribution to this, perhaps in the form of additional resources within his budget. Our Chamber has also entered into written consultations with the government on the status and conclusions of the European Social Committee's statements on the human rights obligation to provide emergency aid to irregular foreigners residing in the Netherlands, the so-called 'bed, bath and bread' debate. The Government takes the view that it does not consider itself obliged to follow these statements earlier than after the Committee of Ministers has endorsed them. Technically-legally, the Secretary of State is right on his side if he says that this is not yet a binding ruling. After all, it is the European Social Charter itself that contains binding obligations. The European Social Committee, which is composed of independent experts, is able to comment on complaints about compliance with the Convention, which are indeed opinions. As such, these rulings come from the most authoritative body to explain the nature, scope and content of the Treaty provisions, which are themselves mandatory. However, it is up to the Committee of Ministers to forward it to the Netherlands and, if necessary, to allow social and economic conditions to be taken into account in its decision. In this case, it concerns in particular the scope of Article 13 (4) on the right to social and medical assistance and Article 13 (2) on the right to housing. It also concerns the interpretation of universal human rights, as laid down in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the detailed Article 11 of the UN Convention on Human Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, on the right of every person to a decent life, including the right to clothing, food and human dignity. The European Social Committee recommended that the Netherlands take immediate measures to provide the persons concerned with bed, bath and bread in accordance with these international obligations. The Committee limits this to basic necessities, since it is aware that these are non-legal residents of the Netherlands. The Committee has also been involved in its opinion on the prevention of an aspirating effect. It states that this is certainly a legitimate objective, but considers that this cannot provide sufficient justification for a government to deprive people of basic necessities, with any status whatsoever, including, in particular, nutrition, clothing, shelter, basic health care and human dignity. I also refer to a letter from three UN Special Rapporteurs, who, on 16 December 2014, took the rather rare step towards sending a so-called "Urgent Appeal Letter" calling for immediate emergency aid to this vulnerable group. The Committee of Ministers cannot change the legal content of the European Social Committee. Does the government recognize this? How does it assess the current situation for the displaced asylum seekers, who are not being received in one municipality and who are not in another? Does it share our view that it is desirable that national policy and policy unity should be restored as soon as possible? In this context, I would also like to ask whether the state secretary's consultation with the municipalities in order to achieve a socially manageable situation has already yielded anything. More and more municipalities are also required to offer bed, bath and bread in court proceedings pending a final decision by the Committee of Ministers. Can the government respond to the proposals of the VNG, the National Council of Municipal Councils on Reception and Return Policy and the G4 to create temporary emergency solutions pending the decision of the Committee of Ministers? In the 2012 cabinet's human rights note entitled Respect and Justice for every human being, it states, among other things, that a credible international human rights policy of the Netherlands requires that the Netherlands also be open to domestic and international comments on the human rights situation in our own country. I quote: 'Whoever wants to speak to others about human rights must also be prepared to be addressed'. I assume that the government will deal with this issue in that spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u6	Madam President. The tragic and terrible events in France last week have once again made us realize that maintaining the rule of law in times of crisis is a difficult task and that many threats must be addressed. The leaders of Security and Justice clearly do not have a job of nine to five. We respect their commitment, but we also have doubts about the course they have chosen. As far as we are concerned, protection of the rule of law must be of the highest priority, especially in times of crisis, and it must not go against other important matters in themselves. In my speech, I will state where our doubts and concerns lie, not only ours but also those of many people involved. We hope that in their term the rulers will take careful account of what we are proposing. We are at the beginning of a new year, but this debate could become one of the most important in the whole year, because these are fundamental issues and the role of the Senate as a guardian of the quality of the rule of law is at stake. Today we are discussing not only the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2015, but also, at last, the policy debate that this Chamber requested a long time ago. A number of meetings preceded that last year in this house. I am referring, of course, to the impressive debate on 4 February and the expert meeting on 24 November. In my contribution, I will address both meetings. As a starting point, I have two questions. The first question is: what is the state of the rule of law? The second question is: what has the government agreement of VVD and PvdA brought to society so far in the field of the rule of law and what awaits us? For me, the Kox motion of 29 October 2013, the motions of this Chamber of 11 March last year and the Kox motion of 14 October. The first Kox motion found that there was no coherent vision of how access to justice and legal assistance could and will be guaranteed. In the motion-Franken c.s. On 11 March 2014, the Government was invited to examine how a provision could be made, allowing a seeker, whose application to refer to the court has been rejected by the Legal Service of Loket, to bring an immediate action before the court, so that the latter can then decide for itself whether the person concerned is still entitled to compensation for legal aid. In the motion-Ruers c.s. on the same date, the government was invited to review its austerity plan in the context of access to justice and the legal aid financed. The latest Kox motion called on the government not to introduce the planned austerity measures before a policy debate on the cuts in legal aid and access to justice took place. On 4 February, we discussed the state of the rule of law. The participation of the experts in this debate was of a very high level. We can read that in the beautiful report that we have all received. We then found that all the experts during this debate were without exception very critical of the state of the rule of law. In particular, they objected to the drastic cuts and stressed the close link between the rule of law and democracy. Access to justice is not a consumer goods, according to Corstens, the then President of the Supreme Court. There were also concerns among the participants in the debate about the distorted relationship between law and politics. It was pointed out that court rulings were no longer accepted by the government and advisory bodies were ignored. It was also noted that politics relied on a primacy that does not exist. After all, we live in a common legal order, in which politics sometimes determines, sometimes the law, and in which human rights restrict the power of the legislator, was thus judged. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares these views from that debate and how he intends to express them in his policy. In this context, I need to raise the issue of the position and weight of the rulings of the European Court of Human Rights and other international bodies such as the ESRB, as Mr Schrijver has already said. Recently, the Minister and the Secretary of State have shown that they are reluctant to comply with the rulings of international bodies, while the rulings of international organisations under Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution have direct effect and are binding. I would like to mention two examples from last month. The Ombudsman corrected the Secretary of State, who did not intend to honour a request for pardon from an inmate, while he was obliged to do so on the basis of statements by the ECHR. The second issue concerned a judgment of the Utrecht Court. The court ruled in two cases that the Secretary of State had to provide, as an emergency measure, a bed, bath and bread for people without a residence status. The judge based his ruling on Article 8 of the ECHR and the decision of the ESRB of November. That last ruling implied that the Netherlands was violating international rights by not providing shelter. I also refer to the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 8 April 2014, which declared the data retention directive invalid for breach of respect for private life. The Government disregarded that judgment, with the result that interested parties brought interim proceedings against the State. I would like to hear whether the Minister shares our view that the government is obliged to comply with and implement judgments of international judicial organisations. The second notable debate, which was held on 24 November, again on the initiative of the Permanent Committee on Security and Justice of this Chamber, followed on from the debate on 4 February and largely followed on from it. Again, it was noticed that almost all experts from their different backgrounds and their own expertise are very critical about the progress and sailing of the ministry of V and J. Prof. Barkhuysen, for example, pointed out that the ECHR required the State to provide for the legal assistance financed, including a system of lawyers of sufficient quality. The latter has an impact on the level of the fees. The essence of the right of access must not be undermined, he pointed out, and that also means that cuts proposed by the Minister are not simply a justification for cuts in legal aid. The national deacon of the Dutch Bar Association pointed out that the Minister's claim that the system revision is necessary to maintain the system was incorrect. As he put it, it's about a flat cut. The spokesperson of the social lawyer called for attention to be paid to the impact of the extensive cuts on the position of the social lawyer. He pointed out the current gatekeeper function of social law. If that function fails, he argued, the social costs of the cuts will be higher than the savings from the cuts. His conclusion is supported by the English investigation about which The Economist reported on 1 November. Other people mentioned this as well as a recent article about it in The Guardian. This study shows that substantial cuts in legal aid can lead to cost increases in other policy areas of the Ministry of Justice and in other areas of the public sector. In this context, I would also like to ask the Minister what he thinks of the outcome of the recent investigation, which was prepared at the request of the Dutch Bar Association, which, as a result of the cuts, expects half of the social lawyer to hang the gamble within two years. Does the Minister share our view that, as my party colleague Van Nispen put it in the Lower House, the government's austerity is causing a bald blow to the social lawyer? And if not, why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u7	What does Mr Ruers mean by "the cuts"? Are these the cuts to be made through the AMvB which is now before us and to which the Kox motion refers? Or are we talking about the cuts resulting from the renewal of the system which has been the subject of a legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u8	It's about both. I see it as a whole. We've already had a few cuts. I've mentioned the 150 million from the past few years. There are now a number of cuts and there are still some cuts. I see the whole of it as the development that brings us to this conclusion. And, so I would like to ask the Minister, if there will soon be few or no social lawyers in England, we have already seen this development, taking into account the fact that other law firms are not willing or able to take over the work of the social lawyer: where can ordinary citizens with a limited or minimal income then turn to legal aid and how can these citizens still refer their case to the courts? That's what I'd like to know. And haven't we exactly reached the situation that Professor Barkhuysen warns about, namely that access to justice and justice has become a wash nose? Bakker, President of the Judicial Board, was also critical. According to him, the limits of austerity have been reached. The waiting times are rising again and expenditure is rising more than is justified. With the result that a negative capacity lies ahead and the Minister will have to supplement the deficit, the Council said. Can the Minister indicate what additional amount it is dealing with here and how this additional expenditure will be covered? The legal firm, that's how Bakker told us, beeps and cracks. The workload is still increasing and additional money is needed to ensure the quality of the statements. I would like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to provide these additional resources. Ms van de Schepop, president of the NVvR, stressed that a new and substantial increase in the rights of the Registry would have major undesirable consequences for citizens, businesses, civil society organisations and for the functioning of society as a whole. It also expressed serious objections to the economic approach to case law. The Minister made it appear, she said, as if justice were a form of service to individuals, a commodity for which an individual citizen could or could not choose and for which, if he had chosen, he would have to pay an ever higher price. In the view of the NVVR, the case law is a collective provision and a foundation for a democratic rule of law. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he shares this view of the NVvR. Speaking of the judiciary, I would remind the Minister that the Leeuwarder Manifest caused a great deal of fuss a few years ago. And rightly so, because the demise of the judiciary was imminent. The Minister promised to improve, but real progress has not yet been made. It is still the case that the boards of the courts have too much influence on the judges and their working methods. And for the Minister, the financial interests still outweigh the quality of justice. Against this background, I would also like to hear the Minister's views on the recent statements by former Councillor Mollema of the Court of Leeuwarden, one of the initiators of the Leeuwarder Manifest. He criticises internal relations within the judiciary and the role of directors in the courts. According to Mollema, there is a huge gap between the drivers and the employees. There is no real attention, he says, for what lives among judges. Justice is on the way to becoming a technocratic organization, just like the state's attorney's office, where fear reigns. Says Mollema. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. The same picture emerges from the Visitation dishes report 2014. The report reports that rapid justice has become the first priority, to which the objective is that court cases on average will last 40% less in 2018 than in 2013. Many have expressed serious doubts about this objective. In the NJB of 4 July 2014, prof. Ahsmann and former President of the Haagse Rechtbank, Hofhuis, expertly filed that objective. They spoke of The Hague bluff. Mollema noted about this plan that it is accompanied by a budget cut of 120 million, which has already been booked, and that there is no scientific basis. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to provide a sound scientific basis for that development. In the debate on 24 November, the Consumers' Association stated that the announced austerity measures were an unacceptable restriction on access to justice. Where the government no longer finances, according to the Consumers' Association, the seeker pays the costs of legal aid and is dependent on self-reliance to achieve his right. The union added that the thresholds for bringing the courts to justice are already far too high for consumers. Many consumers refrain from going to court because the costs do not outweigh the potential benefits. The Consumers' Association also stated that the Secretary of State rightly pointed out that citizens could lose confidence in the rule of law and in the functioning of our social and economic movement without effective legal protection. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. To summarise the harvest of the debate in this house on 24 November, I note that there are many negative and worrying developments in a broad legal area. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how he intends to solve the problems caused mainly by the cuts. I would ask him to indicate in detail where he intends to find the necessary financial resources, either within or outside the budget. I now come to the budget itself. The dominant aspect of the budget is the substantial cuts. The budget for justice and legal aid falls from 1.49 billion in 2014 to 1.34 billion in 2018, a cut of 150 million, 10%. The public prosecutor's budget is falling by almost 13%. In the case of additions to legal aid, 27% is reduced. And the Legal Loket is about a cut of almost 10%. Across the board there is baldness, degradation. However, one striking deviation from this trend can be found in the Netherlands Victim Support Post, SHN. SHN's budget is not being reduced, but substantially increased, by 8 million structurally per year. An increase of about 30%, with the number of jobs, FTEs, rising from 320 to 420. In addition, SHN's activities partly overlap with the work of the Legal Loket. I find that strange. I am curious to see the Minister's views on this. I would also like to ask the Minister how we should see this development in view of his intention to designate the Legal Loket as the institution responsible for first-line assistance. That would mean that money would have to be added, but that has not been included in this budget. I see even less of how this is covered. I come to my conclusion. On the basis of my introductory remarks and my benchmarks, I have to say that the government's policies and intentions are a violation of the rule of law, and hence of democracy. In this respect, we find the proposed cut in the amount of legal aid financed and access to justice unsurpassable. After all, the citizen seeking justice is left to his or her fate and must solve his or her problems with self-help, a leaflet, a website, the Legal Loket or a dispute committee. That is not acceptable to the SP Group. We therefore urge the Minister to at least withdraw the proposed cuts in legal aid for the coming years, 85 million, at least until the Minister has provided a better basis for the cuts. If necessary, we shall consider tabling a motion to that effect. We look forward with interest to the Minister's response and answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. We have all been affected by events in Paris in different ways over the past week. As much as the importance of resilience on the one hand, and freedom of expression on the other, is at the centre of attention, now our focus is on the importance of law enforcement to which this policy debate can contribute. I have a single budget question first, then I would like to draw particular attention, on behalf of my group, to the issue of subsidised legal aid and access to justice. Then it's about the announced 85 million cut. My group is concerned about this. First, a question about the registry rights. The proposal is now before the House of Representatives. My group is not enthusiastic about this for the time being. We will be discussing this with the Minister. The question concerns the 19 million setback due to the delay in the entry into force of the proposal, which will now enter into force on 1 July 2015. On page 28 of the explanatory statement, it is stated that this loss of savings is covered within the budget. Can the Minister explain where this 19 million is found? The same question applies to the loss resulting from the adjustment of the Registry duties by, I believe, 13 million, as stated in the second letter of amendment. Can the Minister also explain how he intends to find cover for this? Next, a comment on the subsidised legal aid. In the explanatory memorandum, it is so enthusiastically written: "The first measures to renew the system of subsidised legal aid are planned for 1 January 2015. The renewal of the system brings this system up to date and increases its financial manageability. At the same time, it provides structural savings of 85.1 million per 2018. With the renewal of the system, a new balance sheet has been found in the task of the public authorities to ensure a system of law in which also the less-qualified have sufficient opportunity to stand up for their legal interests." This text makes you curious. What does "by the time" mean? You might ask yourself, what time? What does the Minister mean by that? The term "time" has philosophical meaning. Are we going to have a philosophical discussion about the term "time"? Is that what the Minister is trying to do? The last sentence of the explanatory statement is also exciting. There is talk of a new balance sheet in order to also offer less wealthy opportunities for access to the system. It raises the question: didn't fewer wealthy people have access and do they have access now? Nothing could be further from the truth. That access was there, but it will be reduced because of the savings of 85 million. This saving takes place in three steps: the first of 26 million through a reduction in the fees for the lawyer that will start on 1 February 2015, the second of 43.3 million through a first-line cut by introducing the necessity criterion to be met by the case for which the seeker seeks legal aid, and the third of about 15 million through some changes in the context of his own contribution and compensation. The last two savings will start on 1 January 2016, according to the intention of the directors. The question could be: why cut a cut in three parts? We know the answer; at least I suspect what the answer will be. In the summer of 2013, the State Secretary submitted the full package of measures to the Council of State. It pointed out in its opinion in September 2013 that the package could seriously impede the right of access to justice resulting from the Constitution, the ECHR and the European Charter of Fundamental Rights. In response, the Secretary of State cut the plan into parts. The first AMvB, which limits the fees for the lawyer, will enter into force on 1 February 2015. The starting point for saving is that the system remains high quality and to a sufficient extent ECHR proof, the directors say. The reason for the savings is that since 2002 the cost of legal aid has risen dramatically, from €300 million to almost €500 million in 2012. During the hearing in November 2014, representatives from the field, such as the Dean of the Order of Lawyers, the Chairman of the Royal Professional Association of Court Bailiffs and the Chairman of the Association of Criminal Law Advocates, expressed great concern. The general conclusion was similar to that of the Council of State: the cuts would significantly impede access to justice for the target group. First a few figures, as far as we have them. I mentioned the increase in costs. From 300 million in 2002 to 485 million in 2012. This includes the costs for the Legal Loket from 2004, when this window was set up, and including the interpretation and translation costs from 2006, according to the directors' statement. The other figures, for example on the number of additions, I pulled out the Monitor Granted Legal Assistance 2013, an annual review of the Legal Assistance Board. In 2013, 453,000 additions were issued. Compared to 2012, this number has barely increased. Before that; in 2000 there were 300,000. The largest increase occurred between 2005 and 2006 when the legal counters were opened. The number of users is falling slightly; approximately 35.8% of the population uses subsidised legal aid. 80% of them have social benefits. Most of them pay their own contributions. The offer of legal aid providers is good, also in qualitative terms, is said in the monitor, despite previous discounts on the fees for this group. Some 7,500 of the 17,000 lawyers on the table are involved in subsidised legal aid. This includes mediators who have started to play a role in the subsidised legal aid. All this according to the data from the monitor. This makes it possible to establish that the system is satisfactory. The customer satisfaction is on average good. At the request of the Order of Lawyers, the Bureau investigated the legal aid providers. Something else speaks out of that. The previous cuts mean that the conversions are falling. Clients are refused because the returns no longer outweigh the hours spent. Interns aren't hired anymore. The closure of offices is imminent. The question of the causes of the increase in use and the question of why more additions are provided, despite the reduction in fees, is neither answered in the said monitor nor in any other study. Is society becoming more empowered, less able to resolve disputes itself, has the legislation under which conflicts arise become too complicated? Are additives provided lightly? And what is lightly? We don't know, because it hasn't been investigated. The Secretary of State's letters on this subject do not contain the answer. It merely states that the system is too expensive and that the government is proposing a cut of around 25% of the total cost package, in the hope that 25% less use will be made of it. This cut is on top of previous cuts of 50 million, another 50 million and 15 million in recent years. Have those cuts had the intended effect? We do not know that either. I would just like to point out how arbitrary the percentage of 25 is. For reasons of austerity, this percentage could equally be applied without further examination to the costs of the judiciary or to the costs of any other service paid by the public authorities from general funds, without further examination of the feasibility of such a reduction or of making the system more effective. In view of the above, my group would like to see the questions on the causes of cost increases answered on all fronts. Have their own contributions been taken away? Is the increase due to certain jurisdictions? If so, which one? Is there a cause for this? Are the fees paid to legal aid providers too high, despite the fact that they have already been skimmed? If so, why? If not, why not? What are the effects of previous savings in the area of fees and the own contribution scheme? What are the effects on the services of legal aid providers? Are the additions granted lightly? Is the Secretary of State prepared to have such an investigation carried out, after which, on the basis of the results of that investigation, it will be examined whether the proposed measures will and can comply with the austerity objective? We mean a thorough and independent investigation. From there, a vision of the system can be developed. My group attaches great importance to such an investigation. She is therefore curious about the answer. I repeat, we attach great importance to this. We are also considering tabling a motion on this matter. Mr President, the government has a responsibility to give citizens, including the less wealthy, access to justice. The government knows that the criteria are in line with the case law developed by the ECHR. The essence is that the right of access to justice and justice must not be undermined. The State should provide for a system in which lawyers of sufficient quality are available. In addition, criteria such as the own asset position of the seeker, the importance of the case and the chance of success play a role in the case. The latter should not be judged by the legal point of contact, but by a judge, Strasbourg case law states. The difficulty is, however, that the seeker must first go to court in order to qualify for an addition. That's gonna be a weird situation. How do we fix this? I haven't even mentioned all the criteria yet. The legislative proposal which is intended to lead to the reform of the system introduces a gatekeeper who must apply the criterion of necessity in each application for legal aid. So the gatekeeper gets the key from the fence that gives access to the subsidised legal aid. We are still talking about this, so I shall not go into this further. I refer only to the offices of consultation, which we had in the 1970s. At that time they used this exact situation. So I see the image of the pendulum of a clock that swings back and forth. At that time, the Office of Consultation said that in the future, the gatekeeper would become the gatekeeper, to a woman who came to the office to divorce herself: "Please, ma'am, what's the rush? Try it for another year." She was therefore not given an addition. Does the minister want to go back to that time? I'd like to get a reaction to this. The new necessity criterion which the Minister intends to introduce into the new law is similar to the system of the Offices of Consultation abolished in 1975. I would like to make two more points, although I know that I am over my speaking time. I think they're important. The draft E.R. directive is coming up. It is provided for legal aid by a lawyer to a suspect at the earliest possible stage. Member States will be obliged to do so. In the Brussels negotiations, the Netherlands does not appear to be leading the way because of the cost picture. I'd like to hear from the rulers how they stand in here. Do the rulers have any idea how the financial aspect of this is being dealt with? My last point was made yesterday. Yesterday, Advocate General Fuchs presented a report to the Minister for Security and Justice on the practice of the ZSM decisions. I pulled that report from the High Council's news site. In short, that report examined how the trajectory is going. The Attorney General is deeply concerned about this. He says that at least 8% of the cases that are settled in the ZSM line are rather controversial in the field of evidence. I realize that the report is very recent, so the Minister may not have read it yet. Nevertheless, I invite him to give an initial response. After all, the Advocate General says that these are things in which the rule of law must function very clearly and carefully. If this kind of thing turns out to come true and come true, it's very serious. So I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Monitoring the rule of law is a core task of the Ministry of Security and Justice. It is therefore appropriate to briefly reflect on the horrific attack on Charlie Hebdo and thus on our personal freedoms. It is precisely in these situations that a rule of law must and can prove its worth. It is therefore important that measures to combat our freedoms strengthen the rule of law and do not crumble. That is our heart cry to these rulers. It is not often that the First Chamber deals with the justice budget in plenary. However, there is now every reason to do so. Alerting reports from the judiciary, legal aid providers and the police in the last year indicate an increasing inconvenience in the field. Several experts who were heard in the Senate last year warned against restricting access to justice and undermining the rule of law. Those are big words, but they are great concerns. One of the concerns is that the players involved in the field feel badly heard. The Minister and the Secretary of State seem to take little interest in this fundamental criticism and continue their policy unhindered. That is precisely the reason for the budget debate here. Finally, monitoring the rule of law and access to justice are also at the heart of our Senate. My group does not use this treatment to repeat the debate in the House of Representatives. In my contribution, therefore, I will focus mainly on the issues that affect access to justice and justice. They relate to some developments in the law, but above all to the threatening cuts in the legal aid financed and the increase in registry fees. Finally, I would like to highlight some other aspects relating to the rule of law, including the ruling of the European Social Rights Committee. My group notes that the tendency to restrict access to justice has been further strengthened by this cabinet. In criminal law, we see that the prosecution is increasingly taking over the judicial function. I would therefore like to endorse Mrs Scholten's question on the ZSM issues and how they are now working out. Cases also disappear under criminal law because the punishing government is increasingly active in administrative law. However, in that regime, a citizen is not given the procedural guarantees designed specifically for suspects in criminal law. In administrative law, we see the worrying development that citizens have fewer opportunities to participate in decisions that concern them. The permanent becoming of the Crisis and Recovery Act and the Environment Act puts interest groups out of play. They become more dependent on the willingness of the public administration to take careful account of their opinions and interests, rather than being able to demand this through the courts. This restriction is in stark contrast to the increasing role citizens have in criminal proceedings when they are victims. This Secretary of State has even launched the proposal to extend the right of these citizens to speak with an assessment of the level of penalties to be imposed, a measure against which experts have expressed serious reservations. Can the Minister explain how he sees the role of citizens in legal proceedings? When should their interests and views be explicitly given a role in a procedure, and when can it apparently be restricted? My group does not see a consistent line at the moment and is therefore curious about the underlying vision. However, access to justice and justice are currently mainly threatened by the proposals in this budget for substantial cuts in the legal aid financed. Reductions in legal aid raise the financial threshold, especially for people on low incomes. No less than the equality of justice between people is at stake. After all, wealthy people can buy access to justice, but fewer wealthy people will have to rely on a dispute or an administrative decision in the absence of means. During the debate on the state of the rule of law, a motion tabled by me was adopted, in which the Court considered that guaranteed access to justice was an essential part of the rule of law, that there were wide-ranging concerns about that access as a result of the announced cuts in funded legal aid and further increase in registry rights, and that the government was asked to ensure that access to justice led to a possible adjustment of the system of funded legal aid and the system of registry rights. The question now is whether this is actually happening. We are getting alarming reports of the consequences of the cuts. The current thresholds already lead to a drop in demand. In recent years there have been many gaps in the system of legal aid and a 25% reduction in the total budget is in any case at the expense of access to justice. Four years ago, those costs were already considerably increased for those looking for justice. In family matters, where the own contribution has virtually doubled, those with the weakest position will be the most affected. Since last year the lowest contribution has been increased, thousands of judges have already waived legal aid. We must also bear in mind that the number of people who would be entitled to legal aid in connection with the economic crisis has only increased. On the one hand, this is due to lower revenues and, on the other hand, to the increase in disputes as a result. This virtually untraceable obstacle to justice leads to the cutting off of access to justice and thus to the deterioration of their legal status. Because things are not well supervised, this also has other consequences, namely reducing the quality of justice and increasing other budgets, such as youth law, criminal law, debt restructuring, labour law and social security law. I am not making that up, but that was already established by EconoVision in 2013, the vFAS reports. The effects of the previously introduced drastic cuts in legal aid in England confirm these conclusions. Why don't we learn from that? We can still turn the tide now. The effects in England show perfectly that due to the lack of expert guidance relationships continue to escalate and so on, or lead to expensive professional interference of other institutions. Lawyers, unlike sometimes framed, have a de-escalating effect. They often refer to a mediator or his own mediator. The advantage of lawyers is that they can assess whether mediation makes sense. Things do not always lend themselves to this, because mediation can only be done on a voluntary basis. The State Secretary's view that mediation is an acceptable alternative to free access to justice and therefore does not apply to legal assistance. The WODC report Helping with legal problems shows that compulsory legal aid insurance does not guarantee adequate legal assistance, and also has many disadvantages. Finally, the cuts are also disastrous for the management of social law firms. Their debt collection risk is increasing significantly and also the abolition of indexation of the fee over the next four years will hit them hard, while at the same time the costs associated with specialisation, training and supervision will increase. Some of them will close the doors or, as the NOVA already observes, continue as a single pitter. This latter development runs counter to the desirability of increasing quality. In addition, the NOVA notes that these offices are very reluctant to employ attorney-trainees. Over the past four years, this figure has already been reduced by 10%. There is an ageing population, and because of all these factors, the profession will shrink even further. If the nationwide covering network of these offices crumbles, that is another obstacle to access to justice. The social lawyer is also a special subject. We heard this very clearly here at the hearing. Does the Secretary of State even acknowledge that? Does he really only see it as an entrepreneurial choice? Or does he recognise that social law is an indispensable link for access to justice? And what does he do to keep that number of social attorneys alive? What is the situation with regard to the review of criminal law weights promised in 2010, which are still based on statistical research from 1995? What does the government itself do to limit the number of court cases against the government? It is still far too difficult to resolve an extrajudicial dispute. Unsavory occasional legislation is often followed by procedures. Precisely in administrative cases, registry fees increase by as much as 500%. In particular, this measure, the increase in the Registry duties, will slow down the pace of court proceedings. The Dutch Juristenblad calculated the expected effects. They're not small. It is not a question of a free choice that citizens always have to decide whether or not to go to court. It is often necessary, for example, in the event of dismissal, to refuse a building permit or to divorce and have children. Finally, in the latter case, we require a course to the judge and a parental plan. What does the cumulation of these measures for compliance with Article 6 of the ECHR mean to ensure that everyone has access to independent justice? And what, according to the government, is the implication of Article 47 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights? The case-law of the Court of Justice shows that measures or their cumulation must not result in citizens abandoning a course of action. Well, that's starting to look a lot like it here. What criteria does the government have for this? When, in her view, is there any question of holding off a procedure? How does the government check and monitor that? It is too precarious a right to introduce these measures and then to see how things are going. Surely the guarantee that access will not be compromised should be given in advance? In short, the government is playing with fire by simply cutting back and thus frustrating access to justice for a large group of people. There is no vision of access to justice and the legal aid that has been financed, and there is still a build-up of a system 20 years ago. Also with the staccato legislation itself, the government makes access to justice more difficult and the supervision by expert lawyer is even more important. The government does not, however, put its own hands in any way. With a cut that the cabinet should easily be able to solve elsewhere, it is now putting at risk a vital part of our rule of law. We therefore urge you to reverse this disastrous development while we still can. Finally, I would like to draw attention to three other aspects. Although a rule of law imposes high demands on maintenance and vigilance, we are privileged to live in it. Many refugees looking for protection can only dream of that. However, our rule of law has committed itself to international obligations towards these people. Cynically, many Syrian and Eritrean refugees now have to risk their lives on dangerous trips before they land on a destination where they can be protected. In the region and transit countries, they often do not find adequate reception and security. Last year's rescue operation Mare Nostrum rescued over 160,000 refugees from the sea. However, at present the EU has wanted to provide no more than a third Frontex capacity. Moreover, Operation Triton will not be active on the high seas, while most people are killed there. That is why I am asking the following question. If it turns out that Operation Triton is not enough to save the refugees, is the Secretary of State prepared to support enlargement, including in terms of materiality? Before Christmas, the Chamber asked pressing questions about the Secretary of State's refusal to implement the clear ruling of the European Social Rights Committee, while a resolution by the Committee of Ministers could not alter the validity of this ruling. The Court also referred to the Committee's resolution of a number of years ago on the housing of children in the Netherlands. In this resolution, the Committee has already stated that the Netherlands has a duty to prevent undocumented persons, particularly minors, from ending up in the streets without facilities. In fact, the Committee of Ministers has already made a general statement, so why wait for an affirmative political resolution on a statement which is inviolable in substance? The postponement of the implementation of that ruling shows a great deal of delay tactics, in order to keep the coalition whole until the state elections. In any case, my group considers this postponement unacceptable. The Netherlands is one of the richest countries in the world. There's no place for people to sleep on the streets. Municipalities, which already have to make substantial savings on a lot of transferred care tasks, do not have their own resources for this. The municipality of Amsterdam has been condemned to provide housing, clothing and food until after the adoption of the resolution of the Committee of Ministers, and the Central Board of Appeal has already stated that it will grant all similar requests for provisional provision. So we can expect a boom in procedures. It is strange that municipalities are now forced to implement a ruling from the European Social Rights Committee, whereas the Netherlands is bound by the European Social Charter and, through the Optional Protocol, by the collective complaint procedure. Does it not therefore make sense for the Empire to compensate the municipalities for the implementation of these provisions? Or would the Secretary of State rather wait until the municipalities actually brought him to justice? Moreover, on 23 December last, the foreign judge ruled that the Empire was also held to provide housing, clothing and food. The Secretary of State's attitude is, after all, beginning to appear more and more like obstruction of the rule of law. In its judgment of December, the judge also expressed concern at the rebellious attitude of the Secretary of State on this point. So we can predict that many things will be pursued, all of which will be won. Obstruction in this case leads to procedures, to the credibility of the rule of law and, in concrete terms, to inhumane situations. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State why he continues to postpone the matter and whether it is better, in line with the national rulings, to proceed immediately to implementation. My final point marks the credibility of the rule of law. If we stand for our signature under human rights treaties, we must want citizens to be able to invoke these rights against their government. This was also the intention of the cabinet when the Optional Protocol was signed by the UN Conventions on Economic Social and Cultural Rights, on the disabled and on children. For years, Parliament has been waiting for the possibility of ratifying these protocols, but the cabinet is dreading. Almost a year ago, this Chamber called for speed through a motion. We have often reappeared, but we do not get to see a proposal for ratification, not even arguments on the basis of which this could not be done. Nor can we understand when this will happen. That is why we are again calling on the government to implement the motion in full and to submit the ratification proposals as soon as possible. We are pleased to receive a clear response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u11	Madam President. In general terms, proposals for austerity can count on little or no applause, at least not for those who fear that they will be directly or indirectly affected. Profit always distributes a lot easier than loss. Nevertheless, it makes sense and for the government a duty to look critically at expenditure. This may lead to very desirable improvements, possibly for the benefit of other expenditure, but it is actually a normal phenomenon that primarily opposes planned cuts. The subject of today's debate is the adoption of the budget for Security and Justice, as well as the proposed cuts in legal aid and the changes proposed in the draft legislative proposal on registry rights. I should like to confine myself to some of these prosaic subjects. I can also express my contribution on behalf of the Christian Union Group. My starting point is that our legal system must guarantee fair and effective resolution of disputes at the lowest possible cost. It is not primarily about the corridor to the lawyer and to the judge, but about access to justice. Process costs increase both by increasing, among other things, the own contributions subsidised legal aid as well as by increasing the Registry fees. Both cost factors have in common, but it is important to make a clear distinction between these two. Legal aid costs have increased by EUR 85 million over the last 12 years. The planned structural austerity in this respect will also amount to €85 million per 2018. The civil and canton registry rights have been increased six times since 2010, if I haven't told you. Moreover, it appears that the citizens' self-reliance in resolving their conflicts is quite considerable. In 96% of cases he solves them himself and only in 4% of cases the judge has to use them. Nevertheless, the system of subsidised legal aid had a range of 35.8% of the Dutch population. 60% of the system is used against the State. The rule of law is a precious thing that must be carefully guarded and preserved. That is not to be kept in a safe or a museum, but must take place in the heat of the political struggle of everyday life. More importantly, the foundation of original Christian values and virtues is maintained. The rule of law is a good and universally accessible case law. From the point of view of a public good, the case law must be financed from the general budget. First, I would like to make a few comments on legal aid and then pay attention to the Registry rights. The causes of the rising costs of legal aid are diverse, but the main one may be the increasing complexity of legislation and regulation in what we state or state of social law. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers was adopted by the Council on 29 June. This does not only contribute to more than half of the proceedings being conducted against the government, both criminal and administrative. If I have understood the proposals correctly, the first line, when the government itself is party to a dispute, is to check whether proceedings are allowed against the government: the so-called gatekeeper function, whether or not with the Legal Loket. Under the proposal, non-legal aid recipients would no longer have access to the first-line provision. This raises the question of whether the existence of an alternative provision is sufficient grounds for denying access to justice de facto. Article 17 of the Constitution, to which I confine myself now, guarantees that no one can be held against him against his will from the judge who grants him the law, which does not mean that the right of access to justice is an absolute right. On many fronts, including this morning, the accusation has been made that the department does not have a view on what is decent legal aid under the rule of law and that the principles of the department for the proposed reform of the system are not right. That view has been supported by the Dutch Order of Lawyers with seven arguments. I assume the department will not ignore these accusations, nor let them be undisputed. I would like to hear again briefly what the government's vision is. I'm going into the registry right now. An increase in registry fees cannot be justified solely by austerity objectives or to close gaps in the budget. Registry rights can be a justified threshold against lightly litigious litigation and may be a contribution to the costs of the case-law, but should certainly not exceed the cost price. However, in some canton cases this is already the case and the Registry fees are completely out of line. Around 75% of trade and canton cases are closed by default. The system of registry duties should in fact distinguish between default cases which are by far the vast majority of collection claims and conflict cases. Does this idea appeal to the rulers, from my starting point, that registry fees should not exceed the cost price? The influx of this type of business, i.e. trade and canton cases, has declined remarkably. The Registry fees for the category between €500 and €1,500 have been reduced by second letter of amendment, but the next category will be increased, not least by 50%. Isn't there a good reason for an extra raffle in this kind of business? During the period 2009-2013, an investigation was carried out into the actual development of the impact of the increase in registry duties on the influx of civil cases and/or commercial matters. It is unclear what specific effect this increase has had on the reduction in the number of cases. Once again, unlike legal aid, the rights of the Registry are, of course, about access to the courts or courts. the caselaw, not only because the Registry Law is always paid by the losing party, even if it itself, as a natural person, has been liable for a low Registry duty. The ratio between income and costs at the lowest incomes would have led the Hoge Raad to consider that a Registry Law of €112 constitutes an obstacle to inability. Does the government recognise the possible consequences of this ruling? Finally. The proposed revision of the legal aid system requires a political balance, with constitutional and international obligations not being set aside. The legitimate objective of making necessary austerity is not to exclude any jurisdiction or public task as a matter of principle. Mind you, I'm talking about necessary cuts. It requires a political assessment of where and to what extent the cuts will fall in the individual areas. I would like to see a response to my comments and questions on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Senate, also on behalf of the Secretary of State, for their initial contribution. Before I start my term, I would like, as the President and some Members did this morning, to briefly reflect on what happened in Paris last week. Last Wednesday, a terrible attack hit France in the heart. The freedom of the press was under attack, and thus our democracy and the values we stand for. Many deaths and injuries are regrettable, including cartoonists, journalists and policemen. At the manhunt for the perpetrators and the hostage situation in the Jewish supermarket, more victims were killed. A total of 17 deadly victims and many injured. I am sure I speak for all of us when I say that our thoughts are with the victims, the wounded, the next of kin and their neighbors. The perpetrators could not escape the arm of the law. A strong police action put an end to three days of terror and fear. And that's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law. Over the last few months, we've seen more attacks. Belgium, Canada and Australia were also targeted by religious fanatics. What should the democratic rule of law do if he is attacked? He must arm himself against those who turn against our democracy. New measures are certainly needed. They must be proportionate and balanced with our Constitution, because precisely when it comes to combating terrorism, security and justice come together. Over the last few days, we've seen a fighting democracy. All over Europe hundreds of thousands of people demonstrated. Journalists and artists armed themselves with pen and paper. People of different cultures, religions and beliefs were united in their condemnation of this cowardly act. This shows that freedom and democracy will always gain from tyranny and violence. In the coming period, as Minister for Security and Justice, I have two objectives: to prevent a similar attack in the Netherlands and to establish international links for an even stronger cooperation against terror. Last Sunday, I was in Paris for this, along with our Prime Minister. Ministers from all over Europe and from outside Europe were present. I saw a lot of our alliance at this conference and during the silent journey: the belief that Europe is built on the tradition of freedom, the analysis that the democratic rule of law is a place for all people regardless of their background or religion and the intention to protect the security of these people. In this spirit, we must face up to these challenges. I'd like to start my first term now. Many members of the Chamber have spoken commendable words about the value of the rule of law. The first deadline gave rise to a large number of questions and comments. I have taken good note of this and of course the Secretary of State. The Court discussed, inter alia, access to justice, jihadism, case law, the renewal of legal aid, the adaptation of registry rights, KEI and ZSM. A number of issues have been critically addressed by Members. On all these points, the Secretary of State and I will be entering shortly. On several issues, the spokesmen continued the debate we held in March 2014 on the state of the rule of law. During that debate, motions were adopted on subjects that are still on the agenda, for example on the quality and financing of the judiciary, access to justice and the legal aid financed. With these motions, the Secretary of State and I have, of course, started to work. We shall return to the various subjects. First of all, I would like to consider the involvement of the late Senator Witteveen in the debate on the state of the rule of law on 11 March. He described the very essence of the rule of law: in the rule of law, governments, and therefore government officials, voluntarily adhere to the law and observe principles, values and standards. He also pointed to the double picture of the rule of law: a lower limit of a decent government and, at the same time, the ambitious ideal of a free society of citizens. No wonder the promise of the rule of law is difficult to live up to, Witteveen said. He hoped that we would continue to discuss the state of the rule of law. It is deeply sad that he is not going through this debate anymore. Without a doubt, he would have described the house of the rule of law visually today. However, it is also gratifying that, in line with his desire to continue to discuss the rule of law in this House, this subject also runs through the various themes in this debate. The concept of the rule of law is often used in connection with proposals in the field of justice and security. That's not surprising. Professor Bovens wrote in 2003 in his book De Digitale Republiek: there is not a single rule of law with a clearly defined core, but rather the rule of law is a set of arguments and principles that are linked together as the chambers of a richly furnished house; so this will always be discussed. Such thoughts on the concept of the rule of law have been expressed more frequently. In 2003, professors Van Ommeren and Zijlstra devoted a whole book to the subject: The rule of law as a review framework. Professor Scheltema, also Government Commissioner, noted in 1989 that the concept of the rule of law "has become a sponge that sucks up any element that one wishes to add to it." Scheltema warned that, in such a situation, recourse to the rule of law still has a magical force of persuasion, but does not provide sufficient clarity. In his inaugural speech in 1958, Professor Böhlingk already noted that the word "louter emotions seem to reflect" in the word rule of law. We are a rule of law, but what that is is is not mentioned, he said. As a minister, I notice two things in these scientific publications. I'd like to share those observations briefly with the Chamber. My first observation is that there is broad agreement on the essential principles of the Dutch rule of law. Three things are at the heart: the state's submission to the law, referred to by the Anglo-Saxons as the rule of law, the requirement of independent justice and the value of freedom, legal certainty, equality and democracy. The importance of a strong democratic rule of law in defence of these essential principles is clear. This applies to the Netherlands and its inhabitants, but also in an international context. It is difficult to exaggerate how important resilient states of law are. That is what we see, for example, when it comes to protecting the international legal order from terrorist groups such as IS. I note that the Dutch generally appreciate the rule of law in which we live. Trust in our legal system is greater than in most other European countries, as the Social and Cultural Planning Agency also established at the end of 2014. My second observation is that there is much less consensus in the assessment of concrete measures under the rule of law. Although the concept of the rule of law contains clear, precise general principles, it is fundamentally different in its practical application and ultimately the debate focuses on these principles. The strengthening and consolidation of the rule of law is a key policy for me and for Secretary of State Teeven. It is not for nothing that the strengthening and consolidation of the rule of law is prominent in our policy agenda as part of the budget proposal that is under discussion today. Of course, we shall have to discuss them in detail when we discuss the various legislative proposals, as some Members have clearly pointed out. The budget empowers the Secretary of State and me to spend. We are of course aware that the acceptance of the budget does not imply that there is agreement with concrete measures. You don't have to. A number of Members have asked for this. As I said, I have heard concerns about some of the proposed measures. The Secretary of State and I will discuss this in greater detail today. We are both involved in the various themes that we will be responsible for. I come to access to justice. Many concerns have been expressed. Access to justice is usually associated with access to justice. Of course, access to justice is essential for the resolution of conflicts, but not in all situations of conflict, the judge is the most appropriate remedy. A number of Members have also stressed this. In the cabinet's view, it is not always primarily about access to the lawyer and the judge, but above all about finding an effective solution to the dispute. This vision is central to the renewal of legal aid. In the spring, the Strike motion was adopted in this house. In that motion, the Government is requested to ensure access to justice for all persons in the event of a possible adjustment of the system of legal aid financed and the system of registry rights. The government fully supports this motion. That's what I said back then. However, in order to continue to ensure access to justice for all those seeking justice, it is crucial that the system remains manageable. A priceless system is, in fact, a threat to access to justice. Mr Franken's proposal to add 100 million to my budget, I think, to put it briefly, although I have been thinking about this for a long time this afternoon, unnecessary. After all, the budget is final. The year in which this budget is implemented can, of course, be amended. That's what I reported. A new situation arises when a measure cannot be expected to succeed. I say this specifically to Mr Reynaers who asked how possible gaps could be closed; he called this a plan B. I do not want to anticipate that situation, because it is similar to any other development that will have financial implications for my budget. In accordance with the budgetary rules, such failures or changes in policies should be covered by windfalls or reversals. There are a number of times in the year when the cabinet processes these changes in the budget and makes them known to Parliament, namely in the spring note and the autumn note. Any adjustments for 2016 and further I will present to the Chamber in the 2016 budget, the Millions Note. I will deal specifically with these points later. Then I will also answer all the questions on this issue neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u13	At least the latter is nice to hear, because there are still more questions asked. The minister just said that the affordability of the system is crucial. The Dutch Bar Association (NOVA) has previously calculated for us that the increase in the budget is not shockingly strong. The increase is very much in line with inflation and in other areas the increase has been much higher. So what does the Minister consider to be out of control? Shouldn't it be a lot more that access to justice is crucial? Should it not be far more important than the affordability of the system, which the Minister is now talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u14	Mrs. Strik's motion concerns access to justice. You can think differently about how you come to do that and what instruments you use to do that. On the subject of registry rights, we will come back to this in detail as well as in the discussion of the legislative proposal. We shall also come back to this in legal proceedings relating to legal aid. The Secretary of State will take care of this part. Of course, you set a limit with each other on what you consider to be a reasonable consideration. You have to make that assessment every time, but you can't put it all the way to general.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u15	We read the concerns of NOVA and others about the reduction in the number of offices of social lawyers, which means that there will soon be no covering network. When people end up without a lawyer, which means that they either have to go to trial themselves or no longer go to court, for example in cases where mediation is not appropriate, do you really have to weigh one against the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u16	Yeah, you have to weigh that. However, the question is whether what Mrs Strik is asking is correct. The Secretary of State will come back to this in his contribution to the question raised by Mrs Strik in dealing with the subject of legal aid. Now I'm going to continue with the registry rights. In the debate I had with the Chamber in March on the state of the rule of law, several political groups have already made comments on registry rights. These concerned in particular greater flexibility and small collection cases of small and medium-sized enterprises. I said I'd take a good look at that. As a result, I have found room in the 2015 budget for a moderate increase of 13 million. On 21 November I sent a second letter of amendment to the House of Representatives. Mrs Scholten asked where the 13 million came from. This amount is found in the total budget. However, I can say that in this case I had to make an additional cut in the so-called incentive contribution for verbal fees to the municipalities. That's the 13 million. I risked a fight on this with the VNG and the municipalities, which cannot have escaped the attention of Members. I did, however, defy them because I thought it was the right choice and also because I knew that it was desirable in this House to reduce the legislative proposal that we are going to talk about. I agreed; I listened very carefully. All this has led to a number of amendments in the House of Representatives aimed at preventing this, but it has not been possible. It is therefore included in the budget of Security and Justice. The adjustment of the Registry fees is limited to an increase of 2% for most cases at first instance. The low-income people, the underprivileged, are being spared. For them too, the increase is 2%. The rates for administrative cases at first instance and on appeal are also increased by only 2%. By reducing the registration fees for small collection cases by 30%, I am responding to small and medium-sized enterprises. This adjustment also contains an element of flexibility, as it ensures a better relationship between the claim and the Registry Law. On average, the increase is now 10.5% and not more 15%, as in the original bill. Access to justice will continue to be guaranteed in my view with these adjustments. As an alternative to the adjustment of the Registry fees......... in a budget............................................................................................................................................................................................ The lead times could also increase. All things considered, I am in favour of a slight increase in rates. A number of members commented on the Registry duties. I have already dealt with Mrs Scholten's statement. This was about the softening of the bill by 13 million ECU, which is covered by the budget, and the abolition of the social security allowance, the report, for municipalities. Both amounts have been recovered within the overall budget of Security and Justice. Mr Franken pointed out that it would be the sixth increase for civil and cantons since 2010. It scared the hell out of me. I was wondering if I wasn't paying attention. However, I must contradict this. During the last 10 years there has been only one increase in registry fees, namely in 2010. That was a 5% increase. When changing the competence limit of the canton courts as of 1 July 2011, the rates have been rearranged. As a result, some rates went up and others went down. On balance, it was budgetaryly neutral. The penultimate increase was in 2004. All other changes in the Registry fees............................................................................................................... In this way we will avoid a much greater increase after some time. Mrs Duthler and Mr Holdijk have asked several questions about the law on the adjustment of fees. That bill is currently pending before the Second Chamber. I don't want to anticipate the handling of the bill. We still have to see what we're bringing to the First Chamber. I still have to talk to the House of Representatives about it, but the treatment is imminent. I look forward to it. Moreover, acceptance of the budget does not mean that the Court agrees with all the concrete measures to cover the budget. I'll be happy to talk to this Chamber about the bill in due course. Nevertheless, I would like to comment briefly on a number of issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u17	Mr. Chairman. A very specific question. Suppose this Chamber agrees with the budget and that the legislative proposal will be dealt with here in six months' time, but will be aligned. Should the Minister look for austerity in other posts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u18	Sure. That goes for our whole existence, all the time. Then we have a problem. Then the Cabinet will look into what needs to be done under the Spring Paper, but I will be looked at first. I'll look at the Secretary of State again. However, we will have to come up with a balanced budget and we will have to take action. That goes through the Spring note, the Autumn note and the supplementary budgets. Mrs. Duthler knows the system better than anyone. Creating and establishing a budget does not mean that the Court must also agree to the legislative proposals or policies. However, I assume that we can operate so convincingly that we can do it, but we do not have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u19	We are now determining the total expenditure and revenue, but it can be put in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u20	Yes, but it's not a free pass because then Mrs Duthler doesn't know our finance minister, but she doesn't know us either. It's not like we can just slide. An orderly decision-making process is taking place. You're gonna have luck and setbacks in a year. You have to answer for that. A proper decision is taken through the Spring Note and the Autumn Note. That goes back to both Rooms. Mrs Duthler asked how the proposed increase in civil appeals and in cassation contributes to the costs of justice. Around 70% of the expected revenue from the legislative proposal Registry fees are obtained through the tariff increases for civil cases in appeal and cassation. There was also a question about the relationship between the p and the q. Have I taken into account that, if the p goes up, the q is likely to fall? In general, I can say that the level of registry fees affects the inflow of cases. In the explanatory memorandum, I indicated what the expected reduced inflow would be as a result of the adjustments to the Registry Law rates. In the financial section of the explanatory memorandum, I also included this effect in the calculation of the expected revenue from the legislative proposal. Mr Holdijk asked whether it was a good idea to distinguish between absenteeism and conflicting cases. In itself, that's a sympathetic thought. However, in collection cases, it is not foreseen in advance which case will be dealt with in opposition and which will not. In addition, a default case after the defendant's opposition may lead to further contradiction. If there were low rates in the default case, a complete administration would have to be set up to pay back in certain cases. In the case of collection cases, it is a matter of large numbers of cases. In addition, in other cases, registry law should be increased in order to maintain overall revenue. That is why the thought does not appeal to me. Mrs Duthler asked me to think about alternative forms of financing of justice for the sandwich class, the group of citizens between wealthy and inability. The government is open to new ideas and new initiatives in this respect. Litigation funding is such a new development but this is very rare. It seems mostly interesting in mass damage cases. It certainly offers opportunities but it also has disadvantages. I have a bill in preparation to facilitate the handling of mass damage cases. The preparation of that bill also looks at the possibilities of third partylitigation funding. I would suggest that we discuss such alternatives in greater detail when dealing with that bill. Mrs Strik gave some examples of tariffs. For example, a divorce case would cost €1,190 and a case on social security €940. I must correct these examples, which will soon lead my own life. A divorce case will cost €291 and €80 for under- and under-capitalists. Social security matters will cost €46, including for the underprivileged and underprivileged. I would very much like to discuss all these issues with the Chamber at the time when the bill is being presented here. I shall now turn to the issue of justice. A number of members have asked questions about the quality of the case law, including the report of the visitation committee-Cohen. Mr Schrijver asked me for a response to that report, particularly as regards the response of the Court of Justice Council. I note that the quality of justice in the Netherlands is good. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's I said that at the beginning. I know the facts and the figures. If you compare it internationally, we have an incredibly good judiciary and good justice. That is also what the Committee on Visitation has established. It is the third time that the case law itself has asked for external scrutiny. All praise for that. The report shows that the Dutch case law has highly loyal, expert and involved staff. Those employees are working hard to get all the business done right. The workload within the judiciary is not too high systematically. That is also what the visitation committee has established. Within teams, the workload is often experienced differently from person to person. Some teams often have to deal with peaks in time pressure. As a result, systematic work on quality care often comes into play. The introduction and use of training, feedback and intervision should be improved. The Court of Justice shall send a copy thereof. Mr Schrijver asks me to reply to the President of the Council's statement on the case law that there is too much to do at the same time and that the rack is out. I also think that justice has a lot on its plate, but these changes are necessary to maintain the high quality of justice. That is also the view of the Court of Justice. Successful implementation, for example, of the revision of the judicial card takes a lot of time and great commitment from staff, but this review is essential for the quality of the judiciary, now and in the future. The Committee notes that quality management has not received sufficient attention as a result of the changes made, but that the quality of daily work has been maintained. That's pretty good during a transition. The case law is indeed in a transition phase that is highly necessary. The visitation report shows that the dishes have picked up a lot and that this is starting to pay off. Furthermore, the picture varies greatly in terms of work and production pressure, attention to quality, role and commitment of the judicial board and the relationship between the board and the employees. This is varied from court to court. That is why each court is actively working on the recommendations of the Visitation Committee. The case law has sufficient organisational and financial flexibility to facilitate that targeted local approach. Mr Ruers asked about the cuts in justice and its impact on equity. I can be brief about that. I am not cutting back on justice in 2015. However, I have made a slightly different assessment of the number of cases that the case law will deal with in 2015. The case law uses a prognosis, but it is uncertain and is not always reached. I opt for a slightly more cautious approach at a time when the budget is limited. When the case law produces more than I expect, the reserves are raised. They're meant to absorb fluctuations. There are now over 80 million in reserves, while I am financing 46 million less than justice would like. Whether the reserves in the case-law were exhausted at the end of 2015 is very uncertain. I do not expect this to be the case. Of course, I will monitor developments carefully. That is what I said in the House of Representatives. I'm not crazy. The justice system is extremely important and should not get into trouble because of its finances. I have promised the House of Representatives that I will inform it of relevant developments regarding the reserves of the case law, should they occur. Of course, I want to do the same with this Chamber. Mr Schrijver asked how the training of the judiciary could be promoted, with the aim of quality assurance and improvement of the quality of justice. I note that the responsibility for guaranteeing quality, to which the maintenance of training belongs, lies primarily with the case law itself. The case law examines the quality, including by means of a four-year quality review, as it has just been done. The recommendations of the most recent visitation survey also include recommendations on the supply and follow-up of training and on keeping up with knowledge. The judges take up those recommendations, together with the Council for Justice. Mr Ruers asked for a response to his statement that no real progress had been made as a result of the Manifesto of Leeuwarden. According to him, courts still have too much influence on judges, and financial interests still go for the quality of justice. I'm not going to support his opinion. I also speak to everyone, of course, including the people of the manifesto. Ensuring the quality of justice and tackling the workload is primarily the responsibility of the judiciary itself. That's what people want. Following the publication of the Leeuwarden Manifesto, the Judicial Council responded adequately. That is also the impression I received during my work visits to the dishes. The Court of Justice held rounds of discussions with all the courts. These rounds of talks have resulted in concrete measures. For example, the Council has made it clear in its case-law that production targets should never stand in the way of quality of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u21	It is not allowed, but it is exactly what is happening in practice. Let me give you a practical example. In a court of law, apple cases, in which it is argued, are done on a daily basis. There is one plea, but with the preliminary and debriefing a plea costs a part of the day. The director of the same court says to the judge: "You have to do two in the morning, because that's what we need for the finances." It puts pressure on a judge like that. Then there is a dispute between the judge, who wants to do his job well and who needs at least two or three hours for the preliminary and debriefing of such a plea, and the driver, who says, "No, you have to do more." Will the Minister now tell me that there is no influence of the administration, for financial reasons, on the quality of justice? That is today's practice! We can see it with witnesses and that sort of thing. It's just said, "You can't hear so many witnesses, because it takes too much time." For budgetary reasons, justice is directly affected by its quality. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is acceptable in his view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u22	I can't judge that. It can be acceptable and it can't be acceptable. It'll definitely happen. All I'm saying is that it's the Council's line for justice that production targets should never stand in the way of the quality of work. Funding has also been made available from the central budget for the primary process and is developing professional standards. The procedure for the appointment of judges has also been adapted. So I think we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u23	I'm surprised by the Minister's answer. I asked him if he thinks that's acceptable. He says he can't judge that. At first, he said he could. He seems to find it acceptable that the court should be obstructed in his work for financial reasons. Does the Minister really think that this is acceptable in the proper case law of a proper state of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u24	I am not going to go into a specific situation and I am not going to say that it was right that this has happened. I don't know that situation. I am just saying what the Council's line is for justice. It is also the line of the boards of courts and courts that the production targets should not interfere with the quality of the work. That's what they say. That is the starting point, and that is what it is all about. Something's gonna go wrong sometime. I may also mention an example of something that has not worked out as I would like it to or as I would, but the responsibility lies there. What the judiciary should do is not small, and I am proud of the way the judiciary stands at this transition stage for its purposes. I'll come back to that later. The report Visitation dishes 2014 shows that the quality...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u25	The Minister says that justice agrees and that all goals are met. I understand that KEI, an important activity, needs to be further financed by justice. I think there will be a compensation after-calculation, but that is still completely uncertain. Moreover, that remuneration does not cover the full 100%. It is also rumored that the Council does not even receive funding for the entire PxQ products for the case-law. How does the Minister feel about that? Some of it just doesn't get paid out. "Just" is a Dutch stopword, but I don't think it's normal. What about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u26	I'll be back at the KEI in so much detail. It's on course. There are no financial problems. If necessary, money is also available to carry it out. On the financing system, I said that the PxQ method is a matter of reserves. It would be a reserve of 80 million, while there would be 46 million less than the case law wanted. That's just another way of calculating. I said that we are monitoring this and that we are taking action if the reserves are not sufficient. I also said that I would inform the House of Representatives if necessary. I'll do the same with the First Chamber. So we're not crazy about that. This is going well. We are not cutting back, but we have a clear agreement with the judiciary for the years 2014-2015. The judiciary is doing well. The appreciation of the population is growing. On the international rankings, the judiciary is also doing well. We're in fifth place around the world, I think. Perhaps Mr Franken does not think that is good enough, but I was satisfied when I read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u27	It is good that the Minister and we count the blessings of the rule of law on this point. I am also pleased that the Minister has quoted the words of the President of the Court of Justice that much has happened at the same time. Can I understand the words 'the rack is out' in such a way that the Minister understands that a stripe is being drawn in the sand? Has he understood that there is no need to renew any more without additional resources, because the possibility of reflection, of keeping up with professional literature and of intervision is very much at risk? It would be a good idea for the Minister to express his understanding of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u28	I understand it very much. I am also, of course, speaking with the Council of Justice. I take what Members say very seriously. I understand that they say this from their responsibilities. They also take responsibility for dealing with the ruler of the courts and courts. We therefore understand their situation, because the KEI is important, just as production is important for the Council of Justice. They're achieving their goals. That is incredibly important at a time of transition. There is a great deal on their plate, including the revision of the judicial card, but they feel it is necessary for this to happen. They receive an annual sum of 26 million, which they can use at their own discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u29	I understand that the Minister expects this from the Council of Ministers for Justice. At the same time, the Cohen report shows that the rack is coming out. This is evidence-based. We must therefore ensure that we can maintain the quality of justice at the very high level that we all aspire to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u30	We do need to maintain it. I wouldn't say this at all if I wasn't convinced that things were right, otherwise I wouldn't have been fit for this position. We're going in the right direction and we need to be consistent. We're not gonna do all kinds of new things. I have, of course, read the Cohen report well and discussed it with the Court of Justice. You also know the report, but it is always good to hear the opinion of the judges themselves. It is also good to hear what the judge's reaction was when they were visited and what the visiting committee said at that time. The committee has, of course, reported by court. That's important. For one thing, it's different than for the other. I'm confident we'll get through this road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u31	I shall come back to my question just now. Perhaps because of this hour on the day I have not listened very carefully, but I do not think there has been any answer to the question whether the Council is actually being paid for the case-law on the basis of PxQ. Will the council get 100% of what was agreed in the agreement? That was my first question. My second question was how the KEI is financed. For the time being, I understand that they are not getting anything for that. Later, a maximum of 70% would be financed. There will still be an impact on the assets, even if the Minister adds to them at some point? Surely this is not in line with the arrangements made by the Minister with the Council of Ministers for Justice? The council can't count on that, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u32	All the agreements we have made with the Council of Justice are being complied with. There's nothing wrong with that. On Monday, I could not be at the President of the Council's New Year's address for justice, but he only talked about the KEI and said that this should be carried out. I agree with him. We made a deal. That is what we are doing incredibly well. We also have a very good understanding with different responsibilities. That's how it's supposed to be in a rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u33	At the time, the Justice Department trained me as a judge. I was allowed to hold that position in an excellent court for a while. That's where I learned to ask. So I would ask one more time if the KEI is 100% financed. Is it fully settled in the sense that the books are clean?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u34	In the sense that the books are clean? The KEI is financed within the terms of the agreement, including within the well-known 26.5 million which the KEI Council is entitled to allocate annually to the KEI or to a situation in a court of law. There are choices to be made. I have never been asked by the President-in-Office of the Council to update or renew KEI funding for justice. This is the first time I have been asked a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u35	Perhaps it would be wise for the Minister to explain in a letter exactly what is going on with the financing of the KEI and whether 100% is being paid or only 70% after calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u36	I would like to repeat that, in a progress report, I would like to explain again how the KEI and its funding are working. I'll get back to you on that. Mrs Duthler and others have also asked questions about it. Mr Reynaers had questions about progress and ICT issues, if there is a problem. Of course, funding always plays a role. It's from the 26 million I was talking about. I would be happy to inform the House of this at the request of Mr Franken. Mr Reynaers also mentioned KEI, as did Mrs Duthler. I can tell them both that the preparation for KEI legislation and ICT infrastructure is on track. The case law itself used KEI to complete the efficiency mission of the cabinet. That is a choice of justice itself. If the case law fails to achieve the objective of efficiency, then we will discuss it in the forthcoming price negotiations, if they are to be discussed. I am not going to anticipate that now. As far as ICT infrastructure is concerned, I have not received any signals that further digitisation of civil and administrative justice cannot start as planned. I was also informed of this recently by the Government Commissioner and his team. If the ICT infrastructure isn't ready in time, I've always placed it as a prerequisite myself. The new rules will come into force later. As I have previously promised the Court in response to these questions, the regime will not enter into force until the case law has indicated that the digital system is functioning well and stable. I come now to a single question about performance in the criminal justice chain. Mr Franken asked for this in a sub-section. He requested that the progress of the criminal justice chain be clarified. I had the impression that he was not entirely satisfied with that. That is different from what we are, and that is different from being the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the other chain organisations. Several projects have been launched and measures have been taken to improve the quality of the criminal justice chain. There is a long and complex process. Fortunately, when I arrived, I was saved by the gong in the form of a Court of Auditors report. It said: if something is necessary, it is improving the criminal justice chain, because the different authorities in that criminal justice chain work separately, not in relation to each other. We have now established a good link with results. At the different stages of the chain, the chain organisations deliver better products, with minutes and shorter lead times, and work processes are better aligned. The enforcement of criminal decisions is better coordinated so that they can be implemented more quickly, better in quality and more personalised. The execution is better connected to the rest of the criminal justice chain. Insight into the performance of the chain was not present at all, so I had to observe. However, this has now improved considerably. Measures have been taken to further improve this understanding and to be transparent about this achievement, including towards the Second and First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u37	Of course, the Minister says fine things. I'm just a little freaked out by an interview the prosecutor of the Supreme Court gave yesterday about the criminal order. Does the Minister know that? I can already see him looking for a paper on which an answer to such a question, which he could not foresee, at least he could not foresee that it would come out of my mouth prepared........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8% of cases were convicted without evidence. The Attorney General's office had an investigation into it and was very shocked by it. This is an important part of the chain. It is in line with the efficiency efforts of the Minister in the functioning of the chain, that decisions are taken as far as possible at the front of the chain. The criminal decisions were part of this House's hesitant agreement. The report is called "Available and weighed." I'd like to hear the Minister's comments on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u38	I recommend that report. It was offered to me yesterday. It was indeed the first test of competence in this field. It concerns Article 122 of the Law on the Judicial Organisation. At the request of the College of Attorneys General, the Attorney General of the Supreme Court examined this separately with a very interesting committee. I must say that he has produced a clear but also nuanced report which the College of Attorney General was extremely pleased with yesterday. It will of course inform me, after which I will comment in a response to the House of Representatives, to begin with. I'll inform the First Chamber about that, too. The report has a nice title, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u39	I would like to ask the Minister the following, in the context of the criminal justice chain. The documents show that approximately 11.1 million has been entered in next year's budget in compensation paid by the State for people who have been wrongly taken into custody. That's 12.3 million this year, but that wasn't half a year ago. Many people in the Netherlands are wrongly taken into custody. That number is not going to go down, it is going to go up. Does the Minister think that this is a desirable development? How does he plan to bring that number down? I'm giving the Minister a cut in this respect. If he does this well, the Minister controls that whole route himself, then I think he can save 10 million a year. What does the Minister think of this suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u40	That is another very different subject. Moreover, the Attorney General and his committee did not report on this in the report. I think I have also served Mrs Scholten with my response to Mr Franken's question. I really want to give the college of pg's the opportunity to think in person about the report that was presented to me yesterday. The college was very satisfied. It was made at their request. Then I will draw conclusions. In reply to Mr Ruers' question, I say that every situation in which this happens is too much. The Secretary of State and I will do everything in our power to reduce this with the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the bodies responsible for this in the law. That is, of course, also a point of the quality of the criminal justice chain. That is why Mr Ruers comes up with it. That criminal justice chain is incredibly important. That is why the President of the Court of Justice, the President of the College of PGs and the Chief of the National Police are taking action against this, with good official support and occasionally externally fed. They want to share responsibility for this. I come to the point that Mr Franken also made in a critical sense: the formation of the National Police. I can hardly imagine him being very critical of that. That may be true, but in the context of what is at issue, namely a very large transition. Let me say first of all that the formation of the National Police is certainly not easy. We knew that the store had to be kept open and that reorganizing wouldn't be easy. Despite this, a great deal has already been achieved. For example, on 1 January, the base teams and the district detective, the foundation of the new police organisation, entered into force. In the circles of the police, it's called Day 2. It entered into force on 1 January. It is still my ambition to complete the formation of the National Police within five years. Quality, however, is ultimately what I said in the House of Representatives for time. If there are times when you need to recalibrate, then you need to do it in time and never too late. We're also going to re-evaluate something in this process. I have already said in the House of Representatives that I will come forward with a review of the whole process before May. However, quality ultimately goes for time, so I say in the direction of Senator Franken. I would just like to say a few words about jihadism, which a number of Members have spoken about. The terrorist threat in the Netherlands is and remains substantial. That means that the chance of an attack is real. Over the past period, we have seen that tensions in the world are threatening to spread to the Netherlands. I have already mentioned this in my introduction. The government takes this development extremely seriously. There is no room in the Netherlands for extremism or jihadism on any basis. I say this specifically to Mr Reynaers. The jihadist movement is in everything the opposite of what our democracy stands for. That is not only the opinion of the cabinet, but that of almost the entire population. Government and society act as one front against radicalisation and jihadism. Our rule of law is our greatest and most precious asset. We will defend him uncompromisingly, as I often say. We use all the means provided by the rule of law to keep him alive. Mr Schrijver asked whether the public prosecutor had sufficient capacity in the light of recent developments. I can tell him that more capacity has been made available and made available within the Public Prosecutor's Office, with the aim of intensifying and coordinating the approach to threatening terrorism. There are seven officers with corresponding support. Mrs Duthler asked the same question about the intelligence services. Capacity has also been made available here. A strong commitment is being made to deploy new measures and to intensify existing measures. In the long term, if more resources are needed for specific tasks, this will be foreseen. The approach to counter radicalisation and jihadism is both preventive and repressive. Government and social partners are working together to create a resilient society capable of dealing with an increased threat now and in the future. The turning of the social tide in which extreme and radical views find a breeding ground is a long-term process. It requires the commitment and trust of all parties involved, national and local, both ethnic and religious communities and individuals. Cooperation is crucial. I had a very good consultation with Mr Asscher on Friday with leaders from Muslim communities and organizations of mosques. We agree and have made agreements. I would like to say that again. Mr Asscher also had contact with the Jewish community last weekend, as did my French colleague and the mayors in our cities. Of course, we also have close contact with this. In doing so, it is very important to maintain peace and reasonableness. We must focus our arrows on the evils and their messengers, not on entire populations or religions. Mrs Duthler asked about the state of the legislation resulting from the plan of action. She asked about the state of play of the draft law amending the Dutch law on the Dutch Federation to extend the possibilities for depriving the Netherlands of terrorist offences, and their progress. The proposal was submitted on 9 September. The Chamber reported on 31 October on the legislative proposal. I expect to be able to send the note on the basis of the report to the House of Representatives this month. They also asked about the state of play of the draft law amending the Dutch law on Dutch citizenship in relation to the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship in the interests of national security, and how I might speed up the progress in it. As previously announced in the Lower House, the bill was brought into consultation on 18 December, just before the recess. Let there be no misunderstanding that it is extremely important that this is done carefully. The consultations of the NOVA, the Council for Justice and the ACVZ will come in and we will see if they can give their opinion. All three of them would be happy to do so. I expect to have the advice in mid-February. Then we'll process them. I come to the state of play of the bill for a temporary Administrative Measures Act on National Security. I expect to be able to consult that bill in March of this year. The package we have, of course, we check with each other internationally. I think that package is good in itself. If necessary, we can expand it. That must of course be done carefully and properly. Mr Schrijver also asked whether the government acknowledged that the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship should be a matter for the judge. I am glad that Mr Schrijver is asking that question. This gives me the opportunity to explain clearly the current legal system. Revocation of Dutch citizenship is also a task of the administration under the current state law, and in this case of myself, and not of the judge. In the legislative proposal pending in the Lower House and in the proposal put into consultation, the withdrawal remains a competence of the Board. The court shall not decide whether to withdraw the Netherlands. The judge may, however, pronounce an irrevocable judgment that may be the basis for the Minister's withdrawal of Dutch citizenship. That is the case in the proposal that lies in the Lower House. In the new proposal, which is in consultation, the Dutch Federation can be withdrawn in the interest of national security, on the basis of information provided by the intelligence services. I think that is justified. That too is a decision of the Minister. By the way, that is open to appeal to the courts again. In reply to a question by Mr Schrijver on this subject: the withdrawal of Dutch citizenship can only take place if the person concerned does not become stateless. A number of questions have been asked about recurring jihadists. Several questions have been asked about how to deal with returners. All available resources from the national and local partners are and will be used to remove the threat posed by returners. The police and the AIVD make an assessment of the potential threat of each returnee. Any known returnee shall be detained for interrogation upon return. The D.A.'s gonna prosecute wherever possible. The police and the AIVD are keeping an eye on returners. They remain alert to developments and share relevant information where possible. Mr Schrijver asked what would happen if there were insufficient leads to a criminal approach. In our rule of law, this is, of course, tailor-made. In this case, a local approach is followed under the direction of the national government and the National Coordinator on Counterterrorism and Security. There is a local approach under the direction of the municipality concerned. These returners are regularly discussed in a so-called multidisciplinary case consultation. All relevant national and local parties work closely together, such as municipalities, police, OM, ggz, youth care and the Children's Protection Board. They exchange information and put together a personalised package with the most effective measures, depending on the characteristics of the person and on what he has taken into account in his life. It is important that that person should not pose a threat, because every morning I go through that with the NCTV on the list of 35 returners. There is a position for the AIVD, for other services and also for local government with knowledge of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u41	I just heard the minister say that the AIVD and the police are watching returners. I wonder how long they'll be watched. That was exactly the problem in France. Chérif and Saïd Kouachi were watched, but there was a limited time limit. So it could happen that they were no longer watched in the summer and committed attacks in the winter, at the beginning of 2015. How long are they being watched? Is that unlimited or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u42	Of course, I cannot guarantee that every returnee will always be watched. The Dutch figures are as follows: 180 have travelled to Syria and Iraq, 21 have died there and 35 have returned. Those 35 are followed by the AIVD, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Customization is being applied in the manner I have indicated. They are being detained and a package is being compiled that applies to them. For example, it is possible to work in a local programme. That is what we are doing until there is a conviction that it is not necessary. We are also, of course, learning from the lessons that can be learned. I do not yet draw any conclusions on the policy pursued in France. That'll prove research. Of course, we are talking not only about returners, but also about jihadists who are here, who are known as the lone wolves and who we must also keep a close eye on. The professionalism, quality and quantity of our device are good for that. I repeat, we are going to test that by asking each time if we have enough. I have just said that if we do not have enough, we will intervene and use resources to supplement it. At the moment, however, that is not necessary. I have a few words to say on the important point of privacy. Mrs. Duthler asked about it. I didn't ask her to ask me that question. The Cabinet and the Chamber agree that the protection of privacy is a fundamental right that is of great importance in our democratic rule of law. The motion Franken from 2011 is still an important guide for us. The eight points in that motion, in my view, are used in any proposal in this direction. The fact that we attach great importance to privacy can be derived from the measures that we have put in place in this cabinet period in the field of privacy. I will not mention everything: our commitment to the creation of a European general data protection regulation and a data protection, detection and prosecution directive; various measures in the Cabinet's Freedom and Security Notice in the digital society of the Secretary of State and of me to ensure an optimal balance between security and privacy; our proposal for a data leak reporting obligation, which can prevent a data breach having an unnecessary impact on the privacy of citizens; the launch of a cabinet vision of the phenomena big data and profiling in the private sector in relation to the right to privacy and the right to equal treatment and our proposal to extend the College's right to protection of personal data. I imagine that, in the context of the cabinet positions, attention will also be paid to the importance of privacy as highlighted by Mrs Duthler in the design of information systems. Mr. Chairman. These are my answers in the first term. The Secretary of State will take over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their input in the first term. That deadline has given rise to a large number of questions. I will go into it in detail, but first I have a number of comments. Today we are talking about the budget of Security and Justice for the year 2015. The Court pays particular attention to the cuts in legal aid and access to justice and justice. In Mr Reynaers' words: a government without a budget is not an option. In the motion by Mr Kox, adopted by the Chamber, the government has been asked not to introduce the General Measure of Management with legal aid measures until the debate we are having has taken place. That's what I did. The entry into force of the AMvB was foreseen on 1 January, but it was detained. Many comments have been made by all the groups and questions have been asked about the renewal of the system of legal aid. I note that part of the input of the members sees the bill and the resulting regulation at AMvB level, the so-called second AMvB, whereby that law and the associated AMvB enter into force only on 1 January 2016. They certainly do not affect the budget we are discussing today. As Mrs Scholten said, it is part of the three-stage rocket. Responses to the draft legislative proposal received during the consultation period are currently being processed. The draft legislative proposal is then submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. I hope that the House of Representatives will be able to vote on this bill before the summer. It is, of course, right that the results of that stage in the legislative process should first be awaited before we discuss the legislative proposal and the corresponding AMvB with the Chamber. We expect that the bill will not enter into force until 1 January 2016. Therefore, as far as I am concerned, the budget debate, which is, of course, also part of today's debate, should focus primarily on the measures from the General Measure of Governance to be implemented on 1 February 2015. That is now the intended date, given the delay. Can you talk about the first General Measure of Governance that should be implemented on 1 February a.s. without involving the legislative proposal and the second General Measure of Governance? I think we can do that for the following reasons. The first General Measure contains a number of changes aimed at the immediate manageability of the costs of the subsidised legal aid. These measures therefore relate to the more organisational aspect of the offer. The measures mentioned in the first General Measure concern legal aid providers. The measures in the AMvB of 1 January expressly do not concern the judge. However, there has been a perverse effect by holding the General Measure of Management as a result of the Kox motion. The General Measure of Management contained a freeze on the indexation of the own contribution for the seeker. When it came into force on 1 January, the level of own contribution would thus increase as a result of indexation if we had done nothing. We have avoided this by continuing to apply the amounts at the end of 2014. So also the seeker who is now seeking justice, pays the contribution as established in 2014. The General Administrative Measure, which should enter into force on 1 February, is, of course, part of the renewal of the system. The cost of legal aid - some spokesmen have spoken about this - has increased considerably and structurally over the last ten years by about 23% on top of inflation, so measures are inevitable in this respect. Moreover, a report by the Council of Europe's CEPEJ also shows that we spend relatively much money on legal aid. Our legal aid expenditure in 2012 per capita, compared to gross national product, was the highest in the EU, except in the United Kingdom. We are therefore certainly not considered as thrifty Dutchmen at this point. Perhaps it would be a good idea to list a number of measures. Some members have mentioned some of these measures, but not exhaustively. The General Measure of 1 February will include, inter alia, a generic reduction in the point fee of the lawyer by €0.35 compared to December 2014, a temporary discontinuation of the indexing of the point fee and the own contribution and a reduction in the point fee for some criminal cases. We have also had consultations with criminal law lawyers. First, a 30% discount on the fee was proposed, and now we have reached a 4.5% reduction in the compensation for the goods in question. In particular, Senators Mr Ruers and Mrs Strik expressed concerns about the provision of legal aid providers and the quality of services resulting from the adjustment of certain fees. They referred to a recent survey by the Order of Lawyers. For that survey, all lawyers registered with the Legal Assistance Board were registered by Examination Office Ipsos. The response to that survey was 18%, so not even a fifth of all lawyers who were registered. I do not know what the background is for the lawyers who have responded and how, for example, the relationship between criminal lawyers and social security lawyers is. This is not apparent from the survey results of Ipsos either. Let me point out that, in my opinion, a sufficient offer of legal aid providers, both quantitatively and qualitatively, is an important element in access to justice. So if there are signs that the offer of legal aid providers is insufficient, then that is certainly something to take seriously. I therefore share Mrs Strik's view that the social lawyer is a separate profession and that lawyers working in areas which, by their very nature, are fully or almost entirely covered by subsidised legal aid certainly have a function. However, I do not share the fear that the social lawyer will disappear. Therefore, I do not recognize the picture of the NOVA survey. I would like to point out that the Legal Assistance Board's Monitor has shown that the number of lawyers participating in the system has been increasing since 2008 compared to the previous year. Earlier adjustments to the remuneration in recent years have been made more adjustments...... have not led to a break in that trend. The extent of the adjustment is limited, as the fee per flat-rate point remains well above €100, i.e. €105.61. Also for cases in criminal law, the amount remains above the limit of €100. That amount is a lower limit for me. I do not therefore share the concern that such a large number of lawyers will leave the system that the granting of legal aid to those seeking legal aid will come to an end. The survey report also reports that revenue from funded legal aid cases has decreased within eight out of ten offices over the last three years, but I would also point out that expenditure on subsidised legal aid has continued to increase in nominal terms in recent years. The savings resulting from the first General Measure of Governance are more than €26 million in structural terms from 2018. For the 2015 budget and the budgeted structural savings, it is important that the entry into force is not delayed further. I have heard Mr Reynaers say that in his speech. He said: the government rules and it takes money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u45	I'd like to return to the Secretary of State's reply on the total number of social lawyers. The Secretary of State is not afraid of an excessive reduction in the range of social lawyers. According to him, the number has even increased. The NOVA indicates that there is a decrease in the number of attorneys by almost 10% in 2013 compared to 2010. If that number is reduced, is it not quite logical, especially in view of the ageing population, that this number is substantially reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u46	I believe that the position of the Lawyers' Order and that of the Cabinet differ on this point. We've been looking at the situation since 2008. If we take that year as a time of measurement, we will see the number of lawyers participating in the system of funded legal aid increasing each time compared to the previous year. Ms Strik noted that the NOVA had found that the number of trainees was decreasing. The fact that young people do not opt for the profession of lawyer can have all kinds of causes. We cannot explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u47	The Secretary of State therefore assumes that there are also lawyers who did not previously work in the system of subsidised legal aid, but then switched to social law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u48	In any case, as of 2008, more and more lawyers participate in the system, and not less. That is an ascending series; that is not a series that shows a decreasing trend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u49	Can the Secretary of State say anything about the number of cases carried out by those lawyers in the social attorney's office? Is there perhaps a solution, because lawyers take less of such cases because they have to take commercial business side by side to get something out of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u50	In any case, the increase in the number of lawyers can reduce the lavage in a particular region. This also depends on the composition within a certain part of the judicial card. In a region where there is a great deal of supply for people with disabilities, this will be different than in a region where that supply is smaller. That doesn't all look the same, considering the court card.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u51	Finally, Mrs Strik, I would like to make one final point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u52	It is about the offer of additions, but could it not be that social lawyers can no longer afford only to add, which reduces the number of additions they take? In this way, the offer for those seeking justice would be reduced in the social legal profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u53	No, the offer of justice has grown since 2008, as it turns out. Mrs Strik wonders whether some lawyers who were able to live on their own funded legal aid practice may not be able to do so now. That could happen if the total number of lawyers increases and the total demand doesn't increase. However, the costs are also rising, so you can also say that demand is increasing. It depends on how that translates into a certain part of the judicial card. I will continue my speech. This General Measure involves a saving of 3% of the total budget in 2015 to a saving of the total budget of 6.7% in 2018. Nor do I recognise the percentage of 27 that Mr Ruers mentioned in his speech. This General Measure of Governance provides a budget saving of 3% for 2015, which is structuralally up to 6.7% in 2018. I can imagine that Mr Ruers is talking about the whole amount of savings of all three measures that have been put in place. However, even if you look not only at the first General Measure of Governance, but compares the 85 million euros with the total of the posts for subsidised legal aid, then if all those measures were to be introduced, so would the legislative proposal as a whole and the corresponding General Measures of Governance, on a savings of 19% from 2018. So I'm never gonna get the 27%. I do not see any room for doing away with the cuts by asking for the corresponding sums back to other departments; the Minister has already discussed this with Mr Franken. We will do our best to ensure that future legislative proposals from other departments regarding the impact on legal aid are given a more permanent embedding in the legislative process. That is important, because if those legislative proposals put forward by other departments could mean a greater demand for legal aid, especially in the group of inability and inability, then you should take it in front and not in the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u54	The Minister and the Secretary of State do not see any room to get out of the total budget, while the amounts involved in V and J are, of course, extremely small on the total budget. The costs for the justice system are, I believe, €63 or €69 per person per year. You don't have to be scared to death. A little bit is added to that. Isn't that something you can negotiate in the Trêves Room? I'd rather you didn't, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u55	The Minister has already said something about this in his term. I would like to join in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u56	Then I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u57	The Secretary of State has just said that in future he will consult even better with the other ministries in relation to legislative proposals which could lead to an additional recourse to the legal aid financed. I would point out to the Secretary of State that, according to the comprehensive balancing framework, it is a normal procedure within the ministerial consultations to do so each time. Now I understand from the Secretary of State that it is a new commitment, but I would point out to him that it is an existing procedure which he has to comply with every time. This is not a question but a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u58	No, it's not a new commitment. If Senator Scholten has interpreted it that way, that's not right. You have to be focused on it all the time. We question each other in the Cabinet's subordinates when there are consequences for other parts of our budget. That's a job you have to optimize all the time. I totally agree with her. Then I come to some of the main points of the bill. I shall begin with Mrs Scholten's question on research. This is also a policy debate. We are also talking about a legislative proposal that should be discussed on 1 January 2016 and the corresponding General Measure of Governance. Mrs Scholten asked why no research has been carried out into the causes of the increase in costs. In preparing the system renewal, we did not go ice in one night. Much research is already available, although somewhat dated, which provides insight into the causes of the cost increase. In short, there have been two main causes in the past; Mrs Scholten has also paid attention to this. The Van Wijmen Committee in its report A social order from 2006 found that there is a link between the individualisation of society and the increasing legalisation of society. This is also reflected in an increased appeal to the courts and tribunals. But also the earlier study by the Government's Scientific Council on the future of the national rule of law in 2002 is important and, in my opinion, still topical. The WRR found that society is increasingly individualising and becoming more diverse. It is likely that more cases before the courts will also involve greater use of funded legal aid. In addition, the Ministry's WODC periodically releases its Dispute Settlement Delta. This is an investigation into legal problems experienced by citizens and the solutions strategies used by citizens. The delta has produced important information on the measures to be taken. The following Dispute Settlement Delta also maps out non-use: why is it sometimes not used? We also have a comparative legal study of systems in nine neighbouring countries of the Hague Institute for the Internationalisation of Law, which is also involved in the proposals. The Legal Assistance Monitor also contains key data of the system, including the evolution of the number of additions, costs and the number of lawyers participating in the system. The legislative proposal that I will submit to the Chamber next year will also address the financial implications, the administrative burden and the integrated balancing framework. I have also promised that, when the legislative proposal is presented, I will make clear the cumulative effects of the legal aid measures, which have been discussed by the Court in the first place today, on the rights of the Registry. I would also like to stress that the plans for a system renewal are the result of discussions with many stakeholders in the system. This process started already in 2011 and 2012 with consultation sessions including the legal profession, the Legal Assistance Board and the Legal Loket. These sessions are ultimately the pillars of system renewal, namely the strengthening of the first line. Given the multitude of that research, the extensive factual data we are talking about and the close involvement of the parties, the research requested by Mrs Scholten could, in my opinion, also be an update, the old data supplemented by developments in recent years. I cannot predict in advance whether the research that Mrs Scholten is thinking of can provide new insights or whether that will only confirm what we already know from previous years and from the monitor; but in the end we will have to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u59	The Secretary of State says that, in the run-up to the reform of the system, he has done a lot of research and has also spoken with all kinds of stakeholders, and that the outcome of these very wide discussions is the basis for the plans before us. Then I would like to tell the Secretary of State what we heard in this Chamber at the November meeting. In it, a very broad front of experts from the field discussed their findings and their views on the cuts in legal aid. Those experts were all critical to very critical. Are there so many other people who have heard the Secretary of State, or are the Secretary of State not familiar with the people we have heard here? Where is the big difference between what the Secretary of State hears and what we hear from practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u60	I would be happy to give Mr Ruers some insight into that. We have already consulted a number of measures. In criminal law, we had initially imposed an extreme reduction on the point fee for actual cases; at least that was found in the sector, in the legal profession. We have moderated that discount to 4%. This was also due to the criticism expressed by the Chamber in a debate last year. Criticism was also expressed during the consultation of the General Measure of Governance. As far as youth law is concerned, we had planned to reduce the number of points for under-supervision. We have also listened to the sector and made adjustments. In administrative law, there was a great deal of difficulty with the measure that I wanted to take with regard to the apparent judgment. During the general consultation on 14 November 2013, you may remember that, President-in-Office of the Council, I promised in the Chamber on the other side that I would look at the remuneration and the manner in which it was paid. We have now organised this in a different way in the plans. In civil law, the proposed exclusion of disputes in the field of contract law and rental law has been waived. The main rule is that a lawyer may be added if this is necessary for the resolution of a serious dispute. That is also the criticism expressed in the Chamber on the other side, but also by Mr Ruers in his contribution. In the first instance, the plan was to introduce a deposit scheme into personal and family law, which was originally required to be separated in the measure on the basis of family income from the most capable partner. This measure has also lapsed. Instead, a system has been chosen in which the seeker can receive an addition under the condition that the costs are reimbursed. If you look at what we have exchanged with this Chamber and the Chamber on the other side, we have been working throughout 2014 to adapt measures and to see how it could be better filled in. That doesn't make everyone happy because there are always people who don't want anything to be changed, I get it. But there has been serious listening to the field and to the remarks in this Chamber and on the other side. We really tried to deal with that differently. I refer, for example, to the Ruers motion, in which the government was asked to reconsider its austerity plan in terms of access to justice and the legal aid financed. That process is characterized by a lot of dialogues with stakeholders when it comes to thought formation and involving many insights. I have referred to many examples of this in the Chamber. Mrs Scholten asked in her speech this morning what I mean by the renewal of the system. I will try to clarify that. The basis for the current legal aid legislation dates back to 1958, when the Law on Legal Assistance for the Unemployed and the Minority was put into effect. For this purpose, the Law on Legal Assistance was replaced later, in the early 1990s. Since then, there has been a growing awareness that many problems can be solved in a different way than with a lawyer or a judge. Consequently, access to justice does not always mean access to justice. The cabinet fully endorses what the Minister said, namely the Strike motion, in which the government was asked to ensure access to justice for all to lead, inter alia, in the adjustment of the system of subsidised legal aid. A guiding criterion in the renewal of the system of subsidised legal aid is that effective access to justice should not be compromised or should be prohibitive for certain income groups. The new system follows on from the Minister's and me's view of the measures that affect access to justice. At the heart of this is the responsibility of the seeker and the promotion of an out-of-court dispute resolution. The emphasis in the new system is on a quick, easily accessible and adequate solution to the legal problem of the seeker. In the end, that's what the judge wants. That's what we've been experimenting with in the pilots over the past year, in 2014. In view of the above, I do not recognize the view that the renewal of the system would not be based on a vision. Mrs Scholten has asked whether we have read about this with the reinforced first line.................................................................................................................................................................. Aren't we going back in time with the pendulum? The black number of Ars Aequi and the study of Kees Schuyt, The Way to Law, made it convincingly clear in 1975 that the offices of consultation did not provide adequate access to justice for citizens. I would like to agree with Mrs Scholten that we should not return to the situation of the seventies. What I do want to do, however, is to do with a simple, accessible first-line provision in which those seeking justice with matters that lend themselves to it are provided with a simple, cheap and quick solution. That doesn't always have to be a solution for people who have graduated from law school. Mr Holdijk made a number of comments on the constitutional framework. In my view, the vision I set out fits in well with the constitutional task of laying down rules by law on the granting of legal aid to less well-off persons and also with Article 17 of the Constitution, which stipulates that no one can be held against his will from a judge who is granted the law. As Mr Holdijk himself rightly pointed out, access to justice is not an absolute right. The Constitution, as well as the ECHR, does not prevent restrictions from being imposed on that right. It also states, and that also means that a selection may be made of cases eligible for subsidised legal aid. However, the essence of the right of access to justice should not be affected. To keep that system affordable and to continue to guarantee access to justice for those who depend on subsidised legal aid for such access, the selection that we have applied is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u61	I have an explanatory question. Access must not be compromised, even if one has been at the point of contact and has refused an addition. The Secretary of State writes that one can go to the Legal Aid Council for the objection I can imagine and that one does not receive compensation if it rejects it. You'll have to go to the administrative judge yourself. Does the Secretary of State see that in practice? Does he think that people will be able to handle that, that they will go to the administrative court without assistance? That's a huge step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr Franken outlines a case which was also dealt with in the exchange of written documents. The fact is that these problems have not turned out to be so great in the pilots with which we experimented. It turned out that a lot of things could be solved in the first line and that in many cases where no solution was possible in the first line, an addition was eventually provided. It was very rare that people who really had a problem didn't get an addition. It's a bit of a theoretical discussion we're having on this point. Mr. Chairman. It is perhaps important to say that the aim of the new first line in the system is to contribute to ensuring that it is done in the most efficient way. Access to troubleshooting is paramount. First of all, we're going to see if there's any alternative way for the judge to get his right without recourse to second-line legal assistance and a courtroom. The system functions as a safety net for cases that have not been able to find a solution in any other way. Mr Holdijk, as well as Mrs Scholten in some other words, has asked for the government's view of legal aid in a state governed by the rule of law and the view of the Bar Association that the principles of the current system revision would not be right. In my general introduction, I went into that view in detail. The views referred to by Mr Holdijk and Mrs Scholten were expressed in the context of the consultation of the legislative proposal. This proposal came out of consultation at the end of December. We are now carefully working on all the responses. This will, of course, be dealt with in detail in the legislative process. Mr Franken and Mr Ruers asked whether we should not learn from the negative effects of the drastic cuts in legal aid that have been made and experienced in the United Kingdom. In the field of access to justice and legal aid, Security and Justice through the WODC has a good tradition of comparative law research. I would like to draw attention to the recent investigation commissioned by the WODC into legal aid systems in nine other European countries. By looking across the border we also get more perspective on our own situation. However, comparative law does not always provide ready-made answers that can be transferred seamlessly to the Netherlands. The same applies to recent developments in England. In particular, the Order made a point of that. The situation in England is fundamentally different from that in the Netherlands. Expenditure per capita in England is about €10 higher than in the Netherlands. The reason for this lies in the complex English process system and in the system of dual process representation. An important part of the cuts in England relates to the categorical exclusion of jurisdictions. I have just mentioned examples of this. We are not going to do that with the right of commitment and the right to rent, also in the light of comments from this Chamber and the Chamber on the other side. Divorce, for example, is excluded from legal aid unless there is domestic violence or child abuse. In addition, most rental, employment and foreign affairs cases are excluded from legal aid. It is clear from the coverage that the exclusion of subsidised legal aid in England results in many people seeking legal aid who have gone to court without the assistance of a lawyer. If that is the case, it does not seem strange to me that this will lead to a greater workload for the courts and, on balance, to more costs. That seems to be a logical consequence. This is not happening in the Netherlands. We don't categorically exclude jurisdictions. That is a fundamental difference from England. The renewal of the system that we want to implement is really about strengthening the first-line provision. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no need in the Netherlands to fear that large numbers of people seeking justice will be brought to justice without the assistance of a lawyer. I would now like to make a few comments on the sandwich class, which Mrs Duthler spoke about. This concerns access to justice for people who are not eligible for subsidised legal aid but who are not able to pay the lawyer in full. I am very aware that we should not lose sight of that group. The difference in carrying capacity between someone who is just under the Legal Aid Act and someone who is just outside is not that big, while the difference in claim is huge. That is absolutely right. I have therefore launched a study, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, into the desirability and consequences of tariff regulation. Price regulation may still play a role in improving access to the legal profession for those who are not covered by the income standards of the Legal Aid Act. I expect the results of that study this spring. Furthermore, I am grateful for the offer made by the Association of Insurance Companies to discuss the possibilities that insurers can offer for the group that is just above the limits of legal aid. Mrs Duthler also asked whether the group applying for the subsidised legal aid could not be reduced by 30% now that 30% of those seeking legal aid have legal aid insurance. About two out of five families have taken out legal aid insurance, according to research. A not insignificant proportion of those insured are within the income limits of the Legal Aid Act. I also share Mrs Duthler's view that if a seeker has taken out legal aid insurance, that insurance must first be taken into account. That criterion is also included in the legislative amendment. However, we must realise that there may be disputes that are excluded from a policy. For example, the use of a lawyer in divorce is not covered by standard standards. Where the insurance does not cover the problem in question or there are other circumstances which make the alternative inappropriate, further checks shall be carried out to determine whether the seeker is eligible for subsidised legal aid. I therefore expect that the appeal to the Legal Aid Act can be reduced, but with a smaller percentage than the above mentioned 30. Mr Holdijk has asked me whether the existence of an alternative provision is sufficient grounds for denying de facto access to justice. The background is that justice seekers who are not covered by the Legal Aid Act no longer have access to the first-line provision. I have already dealt with this in the discussion of Article 17 of the Constitution. This category is not already being added to a lawyer, and this is not changed by the system renewal. They are now and in the future expected to pay a lawyer themselves. I've gone into the social attorney's office. We have had an extensive exchange of views on this subject. Mr Holdijk also referred to the opinion of the Dutch Bar Association on the bill. Although I do not think it is the usual course of action to discuss a full legislative proposal in this debate, he has explicitly asked me to deal with the seven arguments of order. First of all, there is the criticism on the part of the order that I give too rosy a picture of the alternative facilities. I don't think so. For many legal disputes, instruments such as mediation, dispute committees and rental committees are a very good alternative. That's what the pilots are showing. Often a citizen has to lower costs for these alternative forms of dispute resolution and the speed with which disputes are settled is also very attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u63	I hear the Secretary of State say that there are many reasonable alternatives, such as mediation and dispute committees. Practice so far shows that mediation has only a very small part of that market. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how much mediation costs for those who ask for mediation. I believe that these costs are equal to or higher than the costs in the normal course of events without mediation. I saw that the other day in an investigation into those cases. In its contribution to this Chamber in November, the Consumers' Association addressed disputes that arise before dispute committees. The Consumers' Association has a lot of experience with dispute committees. The Consumer Union spokesperson warned us, because he increasingly sees the following happening in dispute committees. It's up to the Disputes Committee to decide. On the one hand, the consumer is on the other hand, with the producer, is a company with lawyers, quality and level. In other words, there is no level playing field. As a consumer, you're facing a very well-equipped opponent and you have to do it on your own. That's not a fair legal relationship, is it? Then you can't tell people to go to a dispute committee instead of a lawyer and a judge? Isn't that an inferior solution to what we have now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u64	No, that is not an inferior solution when it is not a unique case but a case on which, for example, a judge has already decided. Then the Disputes Commission has a reference framework enabling it to resolve a dispute. If every case in the Netherlands were a unique one, Mr Ruers was right. Then it is not a realistic solution. But of course it isn't. At some point, case law is a reference framework and that means that dispute committees can look at current case law. The second argument of the order is that the self-reliance of citizens is overrated. As far as justice seekers are self-reliant, I think you can also rely on that self-reliance. I believe that citizens also have their own responsibility for solving their legal problems. The development of the pilots also shows that citizens do not find it annoying at all to go to first-line legal assistance. The purpose of the legal aid financed is not to relieve citizens of their own responsibilities. I realize, of course, that there are also people who are really not self-reliant. I also know better about the Health report from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which describes that society is becoming more complex and that some people cannot participate because of their limitations. However, we should not keep people small in advance, as you read in the same report. As far as I am concerned, the first line will support and continue to encourage self-reliance where necessary. The legal problem and the solution to it can be explored together with a lawyer. The third argument raised by Mr Holdijk is that the new necessity criterion is unworkable. I don't recognize that image, because I think that the reference to the order is specific to the section on rental right and contract law. I have just said that this part of the new criteria has been reconsidered. The fourth argument concerns the pilots, which would constitute a random sample. It is true that it is a random sample, but that is why I have always indicated that the pilots cannot be compared one-on-one with the future situation. It may be that a study to be undertaken in the near future shows that the pilots do not present a representative picture in all areas. The fifth argument is that the effects cannot be measured because of the short term. It is precisely because of the short duration that I have foreseen that more than two months after the end of the pilots a review will be made of whether an addition has been issued. According to the Legal Assistance Council, that is also the period in which you should reasonably be able to see whether an addition has been applied for and issued. The sixth argument is that the fact that an employee of the first line and a lawyer take different roles has not been taken into account. When publishing the plans for the strengthening of the first line, I addressed this point, because I conclude from the evaluation report that the qualitatively adequate provision of first-line legal assistance does not require competences reserved exclusively for the legal profession. In particular, lawyers distinguish themselves from first-line providers by being able to represent their clients and provide a specialised solution in special and complex cases. In many of the cases dealt with in the pilot, those elements were not necessary for a satisfactory resolution of the dispute. An employee of the first-line provision can therefore also provide legal aid within that first line, which does not, from a qualitative point of view, undermine the legal aid provided by a lawyer. However, it is necessary that, in the event that representation or high-quality specialism is necessary for a satisfactory resolution of the dispute, a lawyer can be referred to. Then I come to the seventh argument of order, namely that there is a miscalculation of the financial analysis. The calculation to which the order refers concerns the calculation from the evaluation report. For the principles chosen in the report, my calculation of the bill has been corrected. So I think it is very important not to let go of the wrong analysis on the bill. You can't translate those pilots one-on-one. That is why we have also made a correction. Then I come to the assessment of the need for the first line, which Mrs Scholten referred to. It has said that Strasbourg case law stipulates that criteria such as the own funds position of the seeker, the importance of the case and the chances of success in the case should be assessed not by the Legal Loket but by a judge. Mrs Scholten pointed out that the possible difficulty involved was that the judge had to go to court first in order to qualify for an addition. She asked how I intend to solve that problem. The selection does not necessarily have to be made by a judge, not even according to the ECHR. This is not happening now by a judge, but by an independent administrative body, namely the Legal Assistance Council. It is also important that, according to my plans, the staff of the first-line facilities take decisions on an addition, but only in the mandate of the Legal Assistance Council. That power will therefore remain with the Council. Once again, the Legal Assistance Board assesses the own funds position of the seeker, the importance of the case and the chances of success in the case. In the context of the discussion of the legislative proposal, I am, of course, very much prepared to go into this in more detail. The consultations we've just obtained lead to adjustments. The bill goes to the Council of State and comes back with an opinion. So we still have a lot to do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u65	I hear the Secretary of State say he'll come back to it later. I think that's good, because there's a lot of questions to ask. One thing that strikes me is that the Legal Loket is going to play an important gatekeeper role, and that role is getting bigger. We asked about this last year. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has taken a very serious approach to many of the points that we noted last year and that he has dealt with them. However, this is still a point that has not been sufficiently discussed. The Legal Loket is going to cut 10% in this budget; 2 million is going to go down. However, the Legal Loket will soon be given a lot of tasks. It's getting a very heavy job. What's that gonna cost? How will the Secretary of State cover the extension of the Legal Loket?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u66	Of course, that is what we are going to support in the legislative proposal. That bill is now coming back from the consultation and will need to be amended. Of course, this includes a sound financial basis. If you extend tasks, you will also have to increase resources. You cannot solve everything with efficiency, Mr Ruers and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u67	I also have a question about the Legal Loket. That now exists for about ten years. That's where about 22 million went for ten years. There wasn't a penny added to that. In the meantime, however, the number of customer contacts has increased from 400,000 to 1 million. They did it at the same amount. For the same time, they have handled additional customer contacts. This means that the quality should be reduced or the service should be reduced. Now the Secretary of State is going to ask for more from the Legal Loket. There's a lot of uncertainty in there right now. Does the Secretary of State not have a more concrete idea about this, so that it will not cause so much unrest in the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u68	It doesn't really cause much unrest in the market. This is also apparent from the pilots and from the way in which first-hand legal aid workers operate side by side. I don't see much trouble at all. On the contrary, I see a great deal of satisfaction. However, if we are going to carry out much more tasks, we must also, of course, look at the resources. That's what we have to do in the bill. We'll discuss that with each other in the Chamber on the other side and in this house. Mrs Strik has asked me about the state's position in preventing cases against the State. In this context, the Minister for the Interior has launched the programme Pleasant contact with the government. The aim of that programme is to support administrative bodies in the use of the informal approach, to provide information on the opportunities and effects of the informal approach, and to provide a platform for administrative bodies to exchange knowledge and experience with each other. This informal approach means that, in the case of an application, opinion, complaint or objection, an official will contact the citizen by telephone quickly and personally. The official has to do that and he really needs to ask a little bit about it. It is therefore not just a question of responding in writing and proceeding immediately to proceedings. We should not be procedural, we should be solution-oriented. That's part of the plan of action. This approach has been successful and has led to many points of dispute being resolved. As an example, I would like to mention the Legal Assistance Council. That is where the informal formula and working methods have been applied for some time. More than 60% of the Council's cases are currently dealt with informally. Mrs Scholten asked about the position of the Provisional Legal Assistance Directive in criminal law in surrender procedures currently under negotiation. The Netherlands is indeed critical of this directive on a number of points. I have also expressed this on a number of occasions in the Council. This is particularly true of proportionality, because in some respects the proposal goes beyond what is necessary. This concerns in particular the obligation to provide for funded legal aid in all cases where a suspect is deprived of his liberty, irrespective of the gravity of the case. In the opinion of the Cabinet, this is now going beyond what is necessary. In addition, the Directive also includes the obligation to provide for funded legal aid in surrender cases in both Member States. The Minister and I do not see the added value of funded legal aid in the requesting Member State at the moment. I also expect the Latvian Presidency to work towards a political agreement within the Council this spring. The trialogue will then begin with the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u69	May I ask how much longer you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u70	I still have a lot of answers to questions about the subject of bed, bath and bread. I am going to give it now and then I will deal with a few separate issues. Mr Schrijver, Mr Strik and Mr Ruers commented on the arrangements for bed, bath and bread. What do we currently understand in the Netherlands under bed, bath and bread? I think it would be a good idea to discuss this with each other, because that gives some framework to the debate. In my opinion, then, we are talking about providing shelter and facilities to non-legally resident foreigners. That is what we are talking about here. The position of the Cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................................... With the first paragraph of the Annex to the Charter, the Contracting Parties have also clearly limited the scope of the Charter. That paragraph states that the operation of the Charter includes only those foreigners who are nationals of other parties to the Charter and who are legally resident in the territory of the Party concerned. It is clear to the members of the Senate that I did not agree with the conclusion of the European Social Rights Committee of 1 July 2014 that illegal aliens could fall within the scope of the Charter. The scope of the Charter is therefore an issue to which the Cabinet pays attention. In our view, the European Social Rights Committee cannot unilaterally extend the human scope of the Charter. That therefore affects the admissibility defence that has been put forward. In addition, we also find the verdict worrying for substantive reasons. In my view, in its extreme consequence, this could lead to the obligation of a foreigner under the Foreigner's Law at the moment, namely to leave the country when he is out of proceedings, becoming completely obsolete. As you know, the findings of the European Committee have been forwarded to the Committee of Ministers, and this is something that needs to be taken up in the form of a resolution. We are at that stage right now. It may be clear to some Members that I am waiting for the decision of the Committee of Ministers before I take a substantive position on the possible impact of the complaint procedures on Dutch reception law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u71	I understand. I shall return to the penultimate sentence of the Secretary of State. I have not been able to read anywhere in the European Social Rights Committee's statement that it doubts the obligation of asylum seekers or foreigners residing otherwise irregularly in the Netherlands to leave the Netherlands. In principle, they have a duty to do so. The Secretary of State says that the ultimate consequence would be that the obligation would become obsoleet. That's not in the verdict, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u72	No, that is not in the ruling, but if you followed this ruling in the sense that anyone who does not have a right of residence in the Netherlands should be offered shelter and shelter, it will be very difficult to realize the voluntary obligation to leave a foreigner who has been totally executed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u73	The Secretary of State acknowledges that the Committee limits this to very basic needs, such as basic medical care, shelter, food and clothing. We are therefore talking about three times b and not about all kinds of other rights that regular persons residing in the Netherlands enjoy under the wide range of human rights. It is therefore an absolute minimum package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u74	I realize that very well. At the same time, I would like to point out that people who participate in their obligation to leave are sheltered by the state in a freedom-limiting location for a period of 12 weeks and sometimes longer, i.e. if there is not an immediate view of departure for those who cooperate in those twelve weeks. I think it is not the case that the Dutch government does not give shelter to people who want the provision of bed, bath and bread. The Dutch government wants to do so, but it is currently linking this to the obligation to leave which then exists with those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u75	I have another two points. My first point concerns the limited human scope. The Secretary of State says that the European Social Rights Committee cannot simply extend it on its own. At the same time, the Court has already pointed out in a letter that the Committee has been explaining this since 2003. In particular, emergency measures, such as shelter, clothing and food, are completely unrelated to the status of people. Everyone in the territory of a country should have the right to these facilities. The Committee of Ministers has also recognised this. In the case of children, the Committee has expressly stated that, irrespective of the debate on the scope, a Member State has no obligation to prevent anyone from becoming homeless on its territory or without such facilities. The Committee of Ministers says: 'in particular minors'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u76	I am not saying that the committee does not say that, but Member States are signing the European Social Charter on the basis of a certain idea of the scope of the European Social Charter. This means that it will become very complicated if such a committee continues to go beyond the framework of the European Social Charter. I am not saying that the committee has never done so before, but that this is an objection to the Member States, because they are faced with the fact that the scope of the European Social Charter is being stretched, whereas Member States have not signed up for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u77	Mrs. Strik, please be brief if you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u78	We are perhaps talking about two different committees. I call it the Committee of Ministers. The Committee of Ministers has therefore already recognised this interpretation of the European Social Rights Committee. You are actually saying that you do not agree with the European Social Rights Committee and that you are therefore waiting for the resolution of the Committee of Ministers. The Committee of Ministers has already continued and followed the line of the European Social Rights Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u79	I think there is something else that you can see, namely that there are also things that are not. I've got them right here in front of me. The Committee of Ministers has taken a different line in these matters, since it felt that the Social Rights Committee was outside its powers. I mention, for example, the Swedish case from 2014. Mrs Strik undoubtedly knows it. This was a complex case in which it was also a matter of conflict with EU law. At the time, the Committee of Ministers said that it had gone beyond the scope of the European Social Charter. There's more to it than that. This was also decided by the Committee of Ministers in 2002. There is also a case from Portugal from 1999. At that time, the Committee of Ministers considered that the Social Rights Committee had been outside the scope of the Charter, although it accepted the Committee's legal assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mrs Strik, very briefly, because you still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u81	I am not concerned about the fact that the Committee of Ministers in general can say in a resolution that it does not agree with a particular point. I am particularly concerned about this particular interpretation of the European Social Charter. A number of years ago, the Committee of Ministers said about children in the case against the Netherlands: a country must take care of them in general too. That's my point. The Committee of Ministers also said: unconditioned. The condition, therefore, does not have to be that people should cooperate. You can still impose all kinds of conditions on people to leave, but so has the Committee of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u82	Yes, but that was in the 2012 case with the kids. That case is well known. Now we have a case about everyone. The scope is therefore extended even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u83	No, Mrs Strik, you will have the floor again in second term. May I also ask you to debate through the President in future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u84	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u85	What is the government's position now? I think that's important to know. The cabinet's position is that the decision-making in the Committee of Ministers is awaited before a substantive position is taken on the possible impact of the complaint procedures on the Dutch reception law. That does not alter the fact that next Monday I will sit down with the Association of Dutch Municipalities to discuss the consequences of the provisional provision of the Central Appeals Council of 17 December 2014. That was also a question from a number of Members. I don't want to anticipate that meeting. It is clear, however, that the decision of the Board does not in any way affect the prospects of residence of the foreigners concerned. I agree with Mrs. Strik. They don't talk about accommodation, but they talk about accommodation. In the discussion with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, I will therefore continue to point out that it is essential that we maintain a system in which a negative admission decision remains meaningful and that return in those cases therefore remains the starting point. In my opinion, the responsibility is always primarily with the foreigner himself. The stranger can be supported by the government or the IOM in the way he shapes that departure. In that case, we will give the foreigners shelter in the freedom-limiting location. Mr Schrijver asked whether the government was prepared to deal with the issue in the spirit of international human rights policy and to be open to domestic and international comments on the human rights situation. We are indeed open to that. We listen to that. This does not, however, mean at the same time that non-binding reports from international committees lead to a policy change without further consideration and outside the appropriate procedures. It is something else if, in individual cases, you have to take action in response to judgments of judges. The report of the European Social Rights Committee has been presented to the Committee of Ministers. That's the move now. I think I have also heard Mr Schrijver say that this is formally the right procedure. We are therefore waiting for this procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u86	I totally agree with the Secretary of State. That is why I do not understand exactly why the Secretary of State uses the phrase 'outside the appropriate procedures'. Can the Secretary of State explain why he made that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u87	This has to do with what I said earlier on the European Social Charter. The Dutch cabinet does have doubts as to whether the Committee had the opportunity to take these views.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u88	Then it's not a procedural issue, is it? It concerns the scope of the applicability of the European Social Charter. There is a dispute between the government, but it is not outside the appropriate procedures. The Secretary of State actually means he's having a substantial disagreement. It is not so much a procedural point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u89	That's partly true. The case of the Council of Churches is also a matter of admissibility. This immediate measure has already been taken without responding to the admissibility claim. That is what we have to wait for at the moment. Mr Schrijver and Mrs Strik have asked me whether it is right that the Committee of Ministers should not change the opinion of the European Social Rights Committee. Of course, the government recognises that the Committee of Ministers is unable to take into account the legal assessment of the European Committee, but that does not mean that the Committee of Ministers could not play an important role in the collective complaint procedure. This is also apparent from the information I have requested from the Council of State. The reports of the European Social Rights Committee are addressed to the Committee of Ministers, which should adopt a stand-alone position on this subject on the basis of the Charter. In doing so, it is possible, if it is directed towards a Member State, to correct it with certain social or cultural considerations. For example, the Committee of Ministers can take social and economic policy considerations into account when adopting the resolution. That's what happened in the past. Furthermore, Mr Schrijver asks me how I assess the current situation in which there is no reception in one municipality and in another municipality and what I think of the proposals of the VNG and the four large municipalities. The Cabinet and the VNG agree that illegal residence in the Netherlands is undesirable. Together we are responsible for keeping this problem socially manageable. At the same time, I see that the preliminary ruling of the Central Appeals Council can already be of significance to municipalities. Whether this is to a large extent the case is still very uncertain, but in the municipality of Amsterdam very few foreigners are currently using the bed, bath and bread arrangements offered. The decision of the Central Council will certainly be discussed in consultation with the UNG. I would also like to draw your attention to two judgments of the Court of Justice of the Hague, the seat of Utrecht, dated 23 December last, cited by a number of Members. They are of a different order, because these statements do not see, unlike those of the Central Council for Appeals, the granting of shelter by the municipality but the granting of shelter by the Empire. I've seen reason to appeal those court rulings. However, before the appeal is brought, the decisions will be implemented because a provisional provision has been made. The two foreigners involved in that case, in those individual cases, have been informed that they can go to a freedom-limiting location in Ter Apel, without imposing any restrictions on freedom. That offer was not used by the foreigners concerned. There has been a dispute about it, but no use has been made of it. Mr Schrijver also referred to Article 11 of the International Convention on Economic Social and Cultural Rights. Article 11 lays down the right to an adequate standard of living. The right to an adequate standard of living includes the right to food, clothing and shelter. That convention applies to everyone, including foreigners without a residence status. However, that treaty does not exclude the responsibility of the stranger. Nor does it follow that the foreigner should not be required to cooperate in his return. Nor is this stated in the UN Committee's General Comments, which monitor compliance with the Convention. There were differences between the positions of the cabinet and of the rapporteurs who spoke about them just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. I still miss the answer to the question of what the Secretary of State will do with the obligation given to the municipalities by the Central Board of Appeal to provide this reception. The Secretary of State will consult with you. That is a very good start, but the national court has obliged municipalities, on the basis of the government's commitment to provide that reception. Doesn't it make sense for the Empire to compensate those municipalities financially?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u91	That's another step. The decision of the Central Board of Appeal is a provisional provision pending a position on the resolution of the Committee of Ministers and the subsequent position to be taken by the Cabinet. It is premature to compensate the municipalities for this, but I am already consulting with the VNG on this subject next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u92	Can we then be informed about the results?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u93	I will inform both Chambers of Parliament about the progress of the talks I have with the VNG. Mrs Duthler asked a question about suspects' own contribution. Has the government taken into account the effect of its own contribution on the successful rehabilitation of the inmate and recognizes that its own contribution can be seen as an additional punishment? In this respect, too, I do not want to anticipate too much the handling of the legislative proposals, but we have already looked at the possible effects of the contribution arrangements for detainees. In the explanatory memorandum and in the further report, the financial position of the target group is considered. I would like to emphasise that the vast majority of prisoners have been briefly punished, so that the contribution will never go up to €11.680. That is the maximum contribution of two years mentioned in the bill. In many cases, the contribution for the stay will not exceed €480. In addition, the contribution of the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care also applies. In this context, work will be done on flat rates. The legislative proposals have also taken measures to prevent people from getting into financial difficulties because of the contribution obligation. I am referring here to the possibility of a payment arrangement, the postponement of payment and the fact that an income and capital test is carried out prior to the use of recovery measures. In the case of participation in a municipal debt restructuring process, remission is possible. So it's anticipated. No more punishment, I'll tell Mrs. Duthler. The contribution is not punitive and it is not a punishment. This really is an administrative contribution to the costs of criminal proceedings and victim care or to stay in the establishment when it comes to the arrangements with detainees. This is also reflected in the legislative proposals by the administrative imposition of contributions. The General Administrative Law Act also applies with regard to both the imposition and the collection in respect of legal protection. Mr Ruers asked whether the government also considered that it was obliged to implement statements from international courts after reading. The government has ignored a number of statements. Examples include judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and a ruling of the European Social Rights Committee. No, we respect court rulings, as well as those of international courts, in so far as they are final and binding. We do not recognize ourselves in the image that this would be different. With regard to the example of the ECHR's statements, I would like to point out that there is still a case at the moment about life imprisonment. A decision has been taken, but there is still an apple case in the Grand Chamber of the European Court. This legal issue has not yet been completed on this point. Mrs Strik once again asked me whether the cabinet was rushing to ratify the optional UN protocols to the European Social Charter, not just the European Social Charter. It was about more. It was also the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. It was the UN Children's Convention and the UN Disability Convention. Those three treaties are at stake. I have already indicated that the consequences of ratification for the Netherlands still need to be assessed. That process is under way. During the first debates on the state of the rule of law with this Chamber, the relevant motion was tabled. The motion calls on the government to inform the Chamber of the timetable of signature. If we have adopted a position, the Chamber will be informed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is no question of this, and I am committed to saying this here: training, delaying, delaying or filibustering. None of that's gonna play. That is what I wanted to say here. So much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the two rulers for the answers they have given this evening. I had to think of an interview with the minister in NRC Handelsblad of 30 December last year. In that he said: 'one must have the feeling that we are taking everything out of the closet'. Perhaps he has realized that I have already quoted him in the first term, without a source. That has been corrected. He said that to show his strength. It was very impressive, but more actions call for more rules, more rules call for more enforcement, and that brings more costs, and less money is available. Then there are two possibilities. Either you're going to reduce the activities, or you're going to reduce the quality of the activities that are already going on. That is precisely why the state of law in the Netherlands is at stake. Justice is in the cold, I actually want to put it that way. The rule of law has a good score in the Netherlands, but maintenance is needed. As I pointed out in the first term, you can look for it on the supply side of the law, but there is no more meat in the judiciary. Cohen says it's a little more sophisticated by saying that the rack is out. We can see that the quality is really at stake. I have added a recent example by pointing out, in the event of interruption, the interview of the Attorney General of the Supreme Court, in which he pointed out yesterday's report that 8% of the criminal decisions are incorrect. The Minister walked away with that very charmingly. He said he'd be very happy about that. I assume he didn't mean that outcome, but the report that it's in, because that report looks so beautiful. The Minister has shown us the report. We have all been able to see visually that it is indeed beautiful, but we have not seen it from within. However, we know from the interview with the Attorney General that 8% will be punished, while there is insufficient evidence. Those people should have just gone home without anything else happening to them! Again, it is nice to finish business as efficiently as possible early in the chain, then the follow-up does not take time. However, it will have to be dealt with in a good way. Actually, the qualified D.A. is supposed to make those decisions, but you often see that this is delegated. Then an alternate, a police officer, or someone at an internship, who can handle anything with an officer's stamp signature. That's what I call quality at stake. If you limit the other side, the demand side with the individuals, then there are financial thresholds. Then it sounds very reasonable when you say that the system should be manageable. I say to that that right is not a commodity. People aren't gonna sue for their pleasure. I spent another afternoon at the counter the other day. Whatever you see coming through there, well, that really doesn't make you happy. Those are people who have problems. If you look at what the social attorneys go through and do away with, it's people who are in pain. Mr. Chairman. In connection with this funding, I made a remark at one of the expert meetings held in this Chamber. That said, the costs of V and J have a multiplier. This is a good word from the economy, which in this case means that 1 million costs in V and J generate 4 million returns or savings in other departments. No one's gone into that. That also sounds like a vague and difficult question. I would like to point out that, contrary to the Minister's assertion that he does not find room in the cabinet to raise money outside his department, this is a sound argument, with which this Chamber assists the Minister in his negotiations in the Trêveszaal. 1.7 million cases are solved at €62 per citizen per year in the Netherlands. That gives the department of Minister Kamp, of VWS and of SZW a lot. The Minister did not go into that, but I assume there is a way to tap into alternative sources of funding. In this connection, I shall table a motion, with which the Chamber will draw the Minister's attention. The President shall: Mr Franken, Mr Ruers, Mr Quik-Schuijt, Mr De Boer, Mr Scholten and Mr Strik proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the outcome of the expert meetings held in the Upper Chamber of 4 February and 24 November 2014;]] [[having regard to the outcome of the debate on the state of the rule of law held in the First Chamber on 11 March 2014 and the motions adopted on 18 March 2014 following that debate;]] [[Considering that the cuts in the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice 2015 lead to an unacceptable deterioration of the legal aid financed and thereby to an impairment of the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the planned cuts in the amount of EUR 85 million of legal aid financed and to seek alternative financing options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u95	I would add that in the Netherlands, 25% of legal aid is being cut. In Finland, a country where there is good economic thinking, legal aid is increased by 10% despite government cuts. I received that recent message. The Minister has told me that he does not want to make use of the extra 100 million offered to him in the counter-budget of the CDA Group in the House of Representatives. He said: I don't need that, because my budget is final. How is his budget final? Only by abolishing a number of activities that we believe are necessary. We must be aware that you have a great question mark over whether the budget is really final. The Minister has just said quite literally: 'Adoption of the budget does not mean agreement with the measures envisaged to cover the budget'. If these measures are not adopted, then there are setbacks. It's a bit of a blur, isn't it? In the Acts of the House of Representatives, a state was submitted when the written questions were answered. It gives an overview of V and J's legislative proposals in millions of euros. That's what I'm going to quote for 2015. Paper is patient, so the Secretary of State should comment on this. The increase in the Registry fees will be paid for 19 million as from 1 July. The AMBs on legal aid are paid in for 16 million, the own contribution schemes are paid in for 37 million and the passed on supervisory and disciplinary duty for 4 million. So 76 million in total is unmistakable. I am very curious to hear what the Minister has to say about this. It is not only uncertainties for the 2015 budget that have been entered. The various cuts that are being made are also very uncertain in the future. KEI is, in my view, very dubious for cuts for the next few years. That still requires a lot of investment. Only in the long term will it be possible to make some cuts in the sale of real estate through redundancies and, perhaps, in the future. Furthermore, there are legislative proposals on the own contribution to the criminal trial that should yield 53 million, but I am honestly not so sure that they will be adopted and that this amount will ever come out. The so-called sitting money, so the own contribution to be made in detention, must yield 7 million, but I do not see it as such. I think that there is a lot of uncertainty and uncertainty and that the rulers are not so slippery as they are going on thin ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u96	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their detailed answers to the questions raised by my group at first reading. At that time, I went quite comprehensively into the rights of the Registry. For the purpose of answering some of the questions, the Minister refers to the legislative proposal that is under discussion on the other side. I shall therefore save my further questions until the time when the examination of that bill is also discussed in the First Chamber. In particular, when it comes to the rights of the Registry, it is important for my group that the Court should have its hands free in its handling if it now agrees to the budget. The Minister confirmed that in his first term. I see him nodding again. I thank him for that. I have one more question about the access of the judge to the so-called sandwich class. The Minister indicated that he would be open to alternatives and research into alternative forms of process financing and that he would be involved in the mass damage bill. Litigation funding is not limited to mass damage, but goes on. I am thinking of intellectual property cases, buy-out disputes, tax disputes and the illegal act of government. My group is asking the Minister not to limit his research into these alternative forms of process financing to mass damage, but to broaden it. The Secretary of State has addressed the punitive nature of suspects' own contribution. He has indicated that they are imposed and handled alternatively and that the General Administrative Law Act applies. They can of course be perceived as punitive or have a punitive effect. Is that included in the bill? If so, how did that happen? The Minister has explained in detail what initiatives, government visions, notes and proposals the government makes in the field of privacy protection. The Franken motion is still topical. He mentioned this separately from the anti-terrorism legislative proposals and the approach to jihadism. I assume, however, that he is involved in the further development of this approach and those legislative proposals. It may be a rhetorical question, but my group would like to see that confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. I will be brief in the second term. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. In my second term, let me reverse the argument that I made in the first term and start with access to justice and justice. My group is not quite convinced yet. The proposed savings are substantial and it is clear that the cuts are being looked at from all sides. The Group of the Party for Freedom is clear. If access to justice and justice is substantially affected, and that is what it is beginning to look like, then my group is not in favour of it. The vote in this Chamber is not very reassuring. The debate on the state of the rule of law has already made it clear that there are major concerns that are also widely borne. It is therefore a question of whether the proposed savings can count on a majority in this House. And that makes sense. I will examine with my group whether the government deserves the benefit of the doubt on this point or not, in which case my group does not agree with this budget. The PVV also raises the question of whether this Chamber currently has sufficient data to assess the impact of the savings or whether further research is desirable for this purpose, as several political groups have already suggested. I come to the subject of jihadism. The Minister's answers are somewhat disappointing. In the Minister's reply, Islam was nowhere to be found. Nor did I receive an answer to my question as to whether the government is perhaps of the opinion that jihadism has nothing to do with Islam. That's a missed opportunity, because it's where the Chérifs and Saïds of this world get their inspiration and ID from. I understand that the Minister does not want to put down population groups, but if you ask me, it does not have to be done when the problem is getting sharp. Now it has the appearance that in the Trêveszaal and in this Chamber there is an elephant that is carefully ignored; we prefer not to talk about it. Also on my question whether the government is prepared to prevent the return of jihadists to the Netherlands, I have not yet received a clear answer. I did hear an anthology from the current policy agenda. I conclude from this that the Minister does not wish to revise the current position of the cabinet. That's what I'm asking the Minister. Like I said, probably. That is why my group is tabling a motion on which this Chamber will be able to speak next week on the basis of the votes. The President shall: Mr Reynaers, Mr Fritters-Klijnen, Mr Van Dijk, Mr Sörensen and Mr Kops proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Islam declared war on the Netherlands;]] [[noting that in the Netherlands the number of jihad fighters travelling is increasing and that some of these jihad fighters are returning to the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the government is keeping the borders open for returning jihad fighters;]] [[Whereas there is a good chance that jihad fighters returning to the Netherlands will continue their fight in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government not to stop jihad fighters travelling and to allow returning jihadgoers to enter the Netherlands even more and to do so to denounce the Schengen Conventions and to re-establish border controls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Mr President. This brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u99	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the proper answer to the questions. First of all, we listened handcuffed to the Minister's description of the rule of law. In doing so, he appropriately quoted our late colleague Witteveen, who said that the rule of law is a promise that we must deliver. The Minister also quoted other scholarly treatises, including that the rule of law is an emotional good, but I recognized myself more in his own threefold objective interpretation of the rule of law. Secondly, it was good to hear that the budget was not poured into concrete and thought was not stopped. Changes can be made, although we fully understand that the budget is not a menu. Thirdly, it is a good thing that we had a further debate on the proposed increase in registry duties and the moderation, the softening, which has already been introduced or promised by the government. Fourthly, I found it interesting that we could talk about how the quality and, if possible, the improvement in justice can be monitored, also in the light of the findings of the visitation report Cohen. It's good to keep the finger on the wrist. Fifth, with regard to the withdrawal of the Dutch jihadist regime, we are now, of course, waiting for the government's proposals. I understand that the Minister is aware of the limits imposed by European and international law on this matter on the Dutch State. Everyone has the right to a nationality. No one can be made stateless. Sixthly, I think we have had a good debate on the revision of legal aid. The bottomline is that everyone in the Netherlands must have access to justice. We also need to ensure effective access. For this purpose, subsidised legal aid remains an essential element. This remains necessary to ensure that access is not compromised. Finally, I come to the question of bed, bath and bread. My group can, to a large extent, take part in the interpretation of the legal situation given by the Secretary of State. There will be recommendations from the European Economic and Social Committee; within a few weeks we can expect a final opinion from the Committee of Ministers. Our discussion has focused on what needs to be done in the meantime. The PvdA Group shares the State Secretary's view that it is not a matter of giving out-of-court foreigners a residence perspective in the Netherlands. This has proved to be wrong in all these procedures. However, we must also recognise that return is not always easy and that fear and fear are sometimes in place. We are concerned about the fact that the people are here and that they are therefore under the jurisdiction of the Netherlands. Then there may be a dispute over the scope of the European Social Charter, but we also have the famous opening phrase of our beautiful Article 1 of the Constitution: Everyone who is in the territory of the Kingdom. Furthermore, we have the Universal Rights of Man. In short, we believe that all people are counted and entitled to protection. Of course, we are limiting this to an emergency package in which clothing, food, basic medical care and human dignity are central. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has always promised to be willing to consult, including with the municipalities that are sometimes in a very difficult situation, with the UNG and other relevant bodies. I was also pleased with the commitment that the government will always respect statements made by both Dutch and international human rights authorities in the last instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their comprehensive and interesting answers. I've heard a lot. That doesn't mean I agree with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State in everything. I've heard a lot of good things in what they've told us today. As far as I am concerned, things have become much clearer on a number of points. Thank you for that. I was also very impressed by the comments made by the Minister on the importance of the rule of law and the fact that he stands for it. I heard him say that on television this week after he had returned from Paris. I do not think we can emphasise enough the importance of the rule of law for all of us. In this context, I have also said in my first contribution that the role of the Senate as a guardian of the quality of the rule of law is important. If I remember correctly, it was a year or two ago in the V&J Committee that led this Chamber to say: we need to go into more detail and have a policy debate on the role of the rule of law, especially the state of the rule of law. This led to the debate with Corstens and others at the beginning of last year and to a later debate on 24 November. When we look back, I think that as a committee we have quite rightly raised this issue and that it has been profit for all of us, no matter what you think of the outcome. We've learned a lot from it. I must say that I myself was often struck by the input of all kinds of experts who came here. This was especially the case at the beginning of last year, when Corstens and his people were here. It was striking how much they attached to the rule of law and how they made it clear to us that there were dangers to the rule of law. On that basis, I would like to say that we have already seen that there is no rule of law without democracy. The opposite is true: no democracy without the rule of law. If the law is to be enforced under the rule of law, access to justice must also be sufficiently guaranteed. That's what I'm worried about. I don't suspect the government or the minister that they want to get rid of that access right away. However, I do think that they have too little concern and interest that the rule of law is under attack. Hans Franken said the Justice Department is in the cold. I think that's exactly the danger. The ice is very thin. On a number of points, therefore, the experts have said that we have simply failed. I'll share that. You let something very important like the rule of law slip out of your fingers. I'd be very sorry to hear that. Then I think: you need to know what the rule of law stands for, and you can't see that as a commodity or as the purchase of something, as Corstens said. It is about the basic principles of our society. We have to stand for that, stand for it. You'll have to pay for that, too. You must at least say: it must cost whatever it costs. You cannot say: we have no money for a while, so we are abolishing the rule of law a little, or we are abandoning the rule of law. That shouldn't happen. I therefore welcome the motion tabled by Mr Franken. We are all in favour of this. In fact, we believe that it is worth bringing in extra money to maintain the rule of law, which is so dear to us. I will come back to that later. Last year we adopted the Franken motion by majority. I read to her at first. The Government was asked to examine how a provision could be made which would allow a judge to make a direct appeal to a judge whose application to refer to the court was rejected by the Legal Service, so that the latter could then decide for itself whether the person concerned would still be entitled to compensation for legal aid. Then letters were exchanged about this motion. In the explanatory statement on this point we see that the motion is in fact being ignored. She's being written down. The explanatory statement states: "At the time when a seeker seeks legal advice on a refusal of an application, he may try to find a lawyer who is willing to look into his case and object. The lawyer may agree with the seeker that, if the objection is justified, the lawyer concerned shall continue to be dealt with. The Frankfurt motion, which I have just mentioned, calls for an investigation into a special provision for legal protection against a decision in the context of selection at the gate. Since it is connected to the usual AWB procedure, which already provides for effective legal protection against decisions on applications for legal aid, no special remedies are necessary." In other words, the government believes that this is possible. You can just turn someone down. He will have no opportunity to appeal it. In fact, this means that a seeker who is rejected by the Legal Loket must enter into the Awb procedure himself, without legal assistance. Let's face it, the vast majority of people just won't be able to do that. That's too hard. That's way too complicated. This means that you are in fact making access to justice illusory for these citizens. That did not just set aside the Franken motion. We have therefore also struck a gap in fundamental legal protection. I do not think that should happen in this rule of law. It doesn't happen because the government has bad intentions for these people, but because they say we don't have the money for it. I think that is a very sad thing. There's a line being crossed here. Another point I would like to raise is the list of cuts that Mr Franken mentioned. We've seen them, too. There are quite a few of them. It mentions serious issues. That's what I just called the necessity criterion and the gatekeeper function, which is getting much heavier. These are all barriers which, in my view, go beyond access to justice as the European Treaty teaches us. This is contrary to the ECHR. I do not think this is possible in a good rule of law. In the budget cuts proposed, I have one point to make. This is one step at a time. Many regulations always come back as a piece of a sausage, as with a salami tactic. There will be another piece and another piece, but all in all, there will be substantial cuts across the board. You can't think of it that crazy or it's cut in. You actually see the rule of law going down across the board to below the critical border. We would like to argue very strongly against this. I'll come to the lock. In our view, there is not enough financial space in the budget. I imagine the government didn't foresee that when she drew up her plans two or three years ago. Now we find that the financial space is too tight. This would damage the rule of law. I think it would be very wise for the Minister simply to say to the government: we need the extra money and we cannot do it ourselves without damaging the rule of law and the work of our ministry; make sure that we get that extra money. I am sure that if the Minister is committed to this, he will succeed in getting that money, especially because he has made such a wonderful speech in favour of the rule of law. With that, you can prevent all those harmful things. I would like to leave it at that. I've got one more point. We would like to vote by roll-call next week on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank both directors for the answers to the questions I have put. Like the previous speakers, I was very fond of the Minister's College on the rule of law. I am not going to discuss it any further at the moment, but I will study the Acts extremely well and let all these wise words get to me again. I would also like to keep in mind that this is a policy debate. We're going to deal with the individual legislative proposals. I am therefore not going to go into the individual points that I have raised and which will be dealt with in the legislative proposals. However, I have taken note of the Secretary of State's undertaking that the times before 1975, when the offices of consultation were still in charge of legal aid, do not come back. I'm curious. We're gonna wait and see. In the first term, I have said that I attach great importance to an investigation into the causes of the increase in costs in recent years. In response, I have heard the Secretary of State mention a number of investigations which he himself said are partly quite old: the report of the Van Wijmen Committee in 2006, the report of the 2002 Scientific Council for Government Policy and the annual dispute resolution delta. As valuable as these investigations are, they're less concrete than I want to be. I am therefore satisfied with the Secretary of State's undertaking that an update will be made. I have heard the Secretary of State say that he knows what the results are, but we do not know them. That is why I think that research is very important. The investigation will show those results. I'd still like to hear from the Secretary of State how he imagines this investigation. I have raised a number of specific questions in the first term. I'd like that answered in the investigation. I'll just repeat them for the record. Have their own contributions been taken away? Is the increase due to certain jurisdictions? I would add: is the increase due to certain legislation? I refer to this in particular, because the example of the BOPZ Act is reminiscent of this: the law which, after its entry into force, produced a tsunami of justice. That tsunami of justice is largely subsidised by the legal aid financed, as that target group derives from it. I have other questions that matter. What are the effects of previous savings in the area of compensation for legal aid providers and the own contribution scheme? What are the effects on the services of legal aid providers? Are additives given too lightly? Are there any effects to be measured as a result of the high trust method? I am not going to explain this method now, because the rulers know exactly what I am talking about. In support of all this, we are also happy to table a motion. The President shall: Mr Scholten, Mr Backer, Mr Duthler, Mr Schrijver, Mr Strik and Mr Sylvester proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in recent years the cost of the subsidised legal aid has risen from EUR 300 million in 2002 to EUR 485 million in 2012;]] [[having regard to the fact that, according to the Government, costs are increasing, inter alia, because of the increasing number of additions issued to those entitled to subsidised legal aid;]] [[noting that the Government has offered and will offer for consideration a number of legislative proposals and measures aimed at reducing the cost of subsidised legal aid;]] [[Whereas an investigation may provide an insight into the causes of the increase in costs, which will enable the Court of First Instance to assess the effectiveness of the proposed measures;]] [[Considering that such an investigation is all the more important now that the subsidised legal aid has been subject to previous cuts, including those of EUR 50 million in 2012, while it is unknown whether these cuts have been achieved;]] [[invites the Government, as soon as possible, to carry out the investigation referred to above and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u102	After all this, I do not want to hide the fact that the rulers have not yet removed our concerns about austerity. That $85 million is hard on our stomachs. That is why my group co-signed the Franken motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u103	Before Mrs Scholten leaves the rostrum...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u104	Mrs. Scholten is not at the rostrum. That's what we're on. Mrs Scholten is at the conference room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u105	Thank you for the correction, Mr President. Before Mrs Scholten leaves the Chamber, I would like to ask her a single question about her last communication. It has tabled a motion asking for a more detailed examination of the causes of the huge increase in the cost of legal aid. This research should also focus on increasing the number of additions. At the same time, it has signed a motion in which the conclusions are already drawn. I can't wait to see how that relates to each other. It sounds a little strange to me anyway. I would also like to ask where Mrs Scholten intends to get that 85 million from. It is a very good practice that when you put a hole in a budget in Parliament, you also indicate what that hole needs to be filled with. I would like to ask about the consistency of her performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u106	Both motions don't bite each other. It is very important that we examine the increase in costs. Then we know what it's like. If it turns out we can solve it differently, we can also find another solution. If there is another solution, we can ask the directors how else to fill in the 85 million. My group should not be making that up at the moment. The Franken motion states precisely that the government could come up with an alternative solution. That is also possible, as I understand it, as a result of a loss of savings of 19 million and 13 million. For example, there may be further changes in the budget. You can also put forward a well-established budget to see how you can move forward with that. Therefore, I do not see that both motions bite each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u107	The motions seem to be linked now. That is not how I understood Mrs Scholten's motion. I understand that motion in such a way that an investigation is being carried out. That seems to me to be a good thing, because my group is also curious about the reasons for this increase in costs. But that doesn't mean that the cuts that have been made at the moment are off the table with that, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u108	I didn't say that either. We have a budget debate. The Secretary of State himself said that if, in a budget debate, you object to a number of posts, you can very well approve the budget, but you can make another noise against the individual legislative proposals. That doesn't bite each other either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u109	I fully agree with Mrs Scholten. We have said that there are quite alternative options for changes, but within the framework of the budget. It now goes along with an attempt to make a hole of 85 million in the budget. In any case, on behalf of my group, I say that it is one of two things: either we table a broad-based motion together, in which we ask the government to investigate why the costs are so enormous, what we can do about them and what the effect on the number of additions is, of course, from the premise that everyone in the Netherlands should have effective access to justice, or Mrs Scholten will go along with attempts to make a hole in the budget. That's her own political choice, but it's really one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u110	I am not going along with an attempt to make a hole in the budget, because Mr Franken's motion states that alternative funding options must be sought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u111	The operative part of the Franken motion states that the government is requested to refrain from the planned cuts. That is really something other than leaving the cuts intact. For my group, too, it is either an investigation or cuts. As far as my group is concerned, it will be an investigation, but not both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u112	Is that a comment or a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u113	A comment and a question. Does Mrs Scholten agree with me? Her motion is based on an investigation and not the omission of austerity. My group wishes to disconnect these two. That's what our signature's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u114	Mrs Scholten has become unwell. We shall suspend the sitting for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u115	I'm reopening the meeting. We shall continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u116	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their detailed reply. I believe that the profit of the debate is that we have tasted broad consensus among all parties today. All parties believe that we should not take the risk of restricting effective access to justice. I have heard this clearly from the two rulers and from the majority of the parties in the Chamber. There is a difference of opinion about the need for austerity on the one hand and the understanding of the effects of the present austerity measures on the other. As we have already exchanged, there are great concerns within the legal profession that the social lawyer himself is in danger and that there will be gaps in the now covering network. The NOVA mentions many factors for this: the fixed amounts for complex cases, the indexation that is stopped and the additional costs involved by the lawyer, such as training and supervision. The Secretary of State looks at that differently; he has less concern about it. At the same time, we are also dealing with an increase in our own contribution. In fact, it is about the set of measures. Mr Ruers also pointed out that a measure is being implemented in every area and we do not know at all what effect it will have on access to justice. The Secretary of State also referred to the legal equation that has been made. He says that the comparison with England is not relevant, because we do not know any categorical exclusion from legal proceedings. However, we are dealing with the higher own contribution. It can certainly lead to a lack of demand. The VFAS has indicated that the higher contribution in family law cases in recent years has already led to the loss of thousands of people seeking justice. Does that seem desirable to us? Will this not lead to escalation, to waiting too long for steps to be taken or to unequal relations between partners, if one partner has the money to start a case with a lawyer and the other has to step into that case without a lawyer? In short, there is definitely cause for concern. With us, there are other factors that can lead to uncertainty about the effects. The Secretary of State has undertaken to clarify the effects of that bill in the legislative proposal, but also that of the AMvB introduced on 1 January 2016. However, we are already dealing with the introduction of measures on 1 February. We have to do it now with nothing but assessments. Our group therefore believes that the Franken motion is the most sure way forward. We should not now take the path of austerity. At the same time, we are not sure that this motion has sufficient support in this Chamber. That is why we have opted for another supplementary motion on the Franken motion, in case it will not make it. Our motion calls on the government to investigate the factors of rising costs and to provide an insight into the effects, and until then to maintain the measures introduced. So we do not want to make cuts until we understand their effects and the causes of the rising costs. I sincerely apologise to the chairman in advance for the length of this motion. I'm afraid it's gonna hit her again when she starts reading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u117	What do you mean it's gonna get to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u118	That's the impression you're getting from reading to reading. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr De Boer, Mr Ruers, Mr Franken and Mr Quik-Schuijt proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is aiming at a structural cut in subsidised legal aid due to the increase in the cost of around 330 million euros in 2002 to 495 million euros in 2012 in recent years;]] [[Considering that, in addition to the amendments to the system of funded legal aid to be implemented by 1 February 2015, the Government has offered and will offer for consideration several legislative proposals and measures, including the increase of registry fees as of 1 July 2015, revision of the Law on Legal Aid and the Code of Criminal Procedure as of 1 January 2016 and the amendment of the Decision on Legal Aid Own Contribution and the Decision on Legal Aid Fees 2000 as of 1 January 2016;]] [[Whereas the proposals aim at reducing the costs of subsidised legal aid and judicial proceedings, but are also expected to restrict access to justice for the seeker;]] [[Whereas, according to the Government, costs are increasing, inter alia, because of the increasing number of additions issued to those seeking legal aid who are eligible for aid, but it is noted that the Government has not demonstrated with the investigation that the costs are incurred, or are incurred. additions are issued in increasing numbers;]] [[having regard to the serious concerns expressed by experts and authoritative organisations about the effects of the proposed measures on access to justice and justice, but noting that the Government has proposed these measures, or propose without having researched these effects;]] [[Whereas, in the absence of the abovementioned investigations, the Court of First Instance is not in a position to assess whether the proposed measures will achieve the intended savings and whether the proposed measures, and their cumulation, will limit effective access to justice and justice;]] [[calls on the Government, all the above-mentioned austerity measures and proposed amendments to the subsidised legal aid in conjunction with the Parliament, to provide further research-based evidence on the causes of the increase in the cost of the subsidised legal aid, and the effects on access to justice and justice for all,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34000-VI-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u119	We have also discussed the role of the public authorities themselves in preventing unnecessary restrictions on access to justice or the need for even more access. The Secretary of State has referred to the Nice Contact programme, but what I also meant is the legislation itself. Isn't it too complex, do we have too much occasional legislation? Should we no longer consider whether this legislation will lead to unnecessary procedures or obstacles to ensuring access to justice? I would like to make a few comments on the European Social Rights Committee and its ruling. The impression of our group is still that the government is deliberately continuing to dive for its obligations. The government relies on the limited scope of the European Social Charter, but at least for more than ten years the Committee has indicated that there is no limitation on the personal scope of emergency assistance. We know that the Committee of Ministers has accepted this as well. In this respect, the Secretary of State is still in denial. The question is, how long can that last? The Council of State has already indicated that the legal commitment does indeed have its limitations, but has also said that it is up to the national courts to reach a final judgment. The national court has already done so, the Central Board of Appeal, the Foreign Chamber. This interpretation of national courts goes a long way towards the interpretation of the European Social Rights Committee, including the point that the restriction of freedom should not be imposed as a condition. So I think it's time for the Secretary of State to accept that putting it on the street is below human dignity, whoever we're talking about. Nor should it be used as an instrument in return policy. In order to do so, we really need to consider other ways of further promoting return. However, these national judgments have not so far led the Secretary of State to accommodate everyone up to at least the resolution of the Committee of Ministers. It is a pity that he needs exactly the winter to think about it and to wait for the Committee of Ministers. I very much hope, however, that at least there will be no further delay and that we will indeed be able to reach a conclusion in February. Finally. I found the Secretary of State at the end very vague about that optional protocol. In fact, his message was: you'll find out when we're out. However, I would like to hear a more precise statement or a commitment to receive a letter from the Minister on this matter when the House can expect the proposals for ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u120	I note that the Minister and the Secretary of State have the opportunity to reply directly. I call the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u121	Mr. Chairman. I thank all for their second term. Mr Franken has clearly indicated that he is following me well. I'm proud he's quoting me, too. I didn't see it, but it's a good thing he's doing it with the source. I would like to make a few points about this. Everyone here too has said that they stand for the rule of law. However, Mr Franken and Mr Ruers pointed out that we are sinking through the ice with the rule of law. That's not true. Maintenance is needed, and that doesn't always mean that money is needed. It also means having the courage to use transitions that may have been omitted, but which are now being deployed on all fronts of the rule of law in all institutions. It is important that we maintain and maintain our position internationally. It is also good to note that we are not sinking but rising. That is what I would like to say to Mr Franken. More rules means more enforcement. That may be so, but I think that we are achieving results across the whole front of maintaining the rule of law on our own, as we see in the figures. In my opinion, it is important that we operate as one government at this very moment. So we do not agree, not only because the Secretary of State and I regard the strengthening of the rule of law as a cornerstone of our policy, but also because there is strong support for the essential values of our rule of law here in this house, but also in society. This does not rule out the possibility of differences of opinion on specific measures, such as the adaptation of registry rights or legal aid. At least you can have a debate on that. This also belongs in this house and in society, including with the other chain partners. It goes too far to draw far-reaching conclusions as if the foundations of the rule of law were to fall. We do not recognize ourselves in any way. It is precisely because it concerns adjustments aimed at maintaining the system for the future, as I said in the first term, that we will be happy to discuss the specific legislative proposals with the Chamber in due course. I would like to say this to Mr Franken, also with regard to the state. I think it is right in this house that legislative proposals should not be dealt with until they have arrived, as everyone has actually said. It is also very well used to book revenue that we can expect from certain measures. That's from all ages and not different at the moment. If we prepare it ourselves so carefully that, for example, with regard to registry rights, I mention a bill for which I myself am responsible, saying that we will not be able to deal with it before 1 July, we will take the financial measures in the budget for that. That should be clear, then. The same applies to the contribution schemes. They go in at some point and they're being treated. Financial measures will therefore be taken to this end. The legal aid that we are talking about now, apart from the AMvB we are talking about now, counts for 2016. In this respect, it is perfectly normal for me to say that I am making a clear proposal. I also think I should say this as a minister, but the proposal must of course reach the finish line and the Official Journal. If the budget is adopted and adopted, which I am assuming, there will be the possibility of simply dealing with the legislative proposals and assessing them on their own merits. That's from all ages and all ages. That's what I want to say here again. In that respect, the budget stands like a house. The observation in the report Available and weighed, the 8% insufficient evidence, is sharp, but let us be pleased that it was made by the Attorney General at the request of the College of Attorney General. It is the first time that an Attorney General of the Supreme Court uses his powers at the request of the highest authority of the Public Prosecutor's Office. He's gonna report that and he's gonna be critical about it. I'm happy and I like that the DA is operating so professionally, so mature and so state-of-the-art nowadays that it asks me to do so. I'm glad we got these messages. We're gonna improve that. The multiplier is an important element. Of course, you make the rich budget with the team of fellow executives. Mr Franken will know that too. If you start with your goals and the coalition agreement, you've taken that into account. We're just here to make the arrangements we made. Let me remind you of the registry rights. The Rutte I cabinet proposed a reduction of 240 million on registry rights, which was strongly endorsed by the CDA Group. I did not hear any of the CDA Group in the First Chamber object to this at the time. But it can happen quickly; it can. Let me say that. The Secretary of State will speak on the first motion. I'm gonna say it again. Just as formally, the proposal has the character of a counter-proposal. The First Chamber cannot make counter-proposals or table amendments. The CDA colleagues on the other side have done so, but they have not made it. It should have been announced at least at the General Reviews in this house. If you suddenly indicate that you have another idea that has already been tuned in the House of Representatives and ask me if I can look at that again, I think that is a strange figure of state law. That is what I would like to say to Mr Franken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u122	I'm gonna ask you again anyway. You haven't gone into the multiplier yet. You said you'd make such a budget with your colleagues. However, do we know how valuable the work of your department is? Do we realize that every million people who are put into it are four times more profitable? Have you ever told your colleagues that? Did you use this as an argument? Otherwise, I would be happy to present it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u123	Yeah, but it's nothing new in itself. It's obvious. The word "multiplier" is familiar to everyone, including simple lawyers. You have not been able to enjoy the pleasure, but you should know how things are in the cabinet. Of course, I can't say anything about that. The Department of Security and Justice is, of course, leading legislation. Mrs Scholten also said something about this. It is also our job to ensure that everyone is included in the planning. It is not for nothing that every time the legislative priorities go to the Chamber through a letter from my side. Don't underestimate that. If you think you've come up with something new, I really must disappoint you. That is why I had little tendency to respond very intensively to your arguments, because they are so well known. But it is good that you bring it up again, because I absolutely believe that the policy of the Department of Security and Justice stands for integrity and the rule of law and that it is the cornerstone of what we do with each other in the Cabinet. It's nice of you to hear that from my side, too. I can confirm to Mrs Duthler that we are involved in the proposals and initiatives on privacy protection legislation regarding anti-terrorism and anti-jihadism, if that is the point she made. Of course, we do it everywhere. That is why we will do the same in this area. Of course privacy considerations also play an important role in the exchange of information in the context of anti-terrorism, but it is also a matter of action when it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u124	Let me be clear: I was concerned that the range of legislative proposals, plans and approaches in the fight against jihadism and terror should include privacy legislative initiatives, approaches and notes. So that's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u125	Oh, yeah. That's what I was just trying to say, so the answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u126	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u127	I am prepared to broaden the position with regard to the litigation, not to limit it to mass damage, but also to involve the issues mentioned by Mrs Duthler. I would like to say the following to Mr Reynaers. Jihadists claim to rely on Islam. They claim the exclusive right to interpret it. I have difficulty with their violent and ruthless views and their violent acts of terror. It is up to the government to protect the core values of the democratic rule of law and to intervene if the rule of law is violated. We are. I do not want to change the policy on return. I've turned that in again. All available resources from the national and local partners are and will be used to remove the threat posed by returners. The police and the AIVD make an assessment of the potential threat of each returnee. As I said in the first term, any known returnee will be detained for questioning upon return. The State's Attorney's Office shall proceed to criminal proceedings wherever possible. Police and AIVD keep track of returners, stay alert to developments and share relevant information. That is why I cannot do anything but discourage Mr Reynaers' motion; that will not surprise him. I can only thank Mr Schrijver for his second-term contribution. The limitation of the European and international legal order is perfectly clear. For us, this is a given, hence my position on no statelessness in the bill. Mr Ruers spoke about standing up for the rule of law. I thank him for what he said about this at the beginning of his second-term speech. Maintenance is necessary. That's exactly what the Secretary of State and I are talking about. You can disagree on that. It is good to debate this issue in all its depth and dignity. Terms of employment need not be a goal, but are also realistic, of course. They can also have a positive effect in a transition because it will lead to changes. I say that looking at a number of institutions. That's another side of austerity. I call it targets. They're fully known to us. There's never been any surprises. We're not secretive about it either. We're very transparent about it. We're in front of it, too, but we'll listen. We are always looking forward to a debate in this house, some of which we have had. They are not an obligation for us. They're important, and we'll listen. There are a number of draft laws that still need to come into this house. Wait and see what we come up with. Can I say that? It's part of the Senate, too. I have already shown at the Registry Rights where a mitigation has taken place. It's almost planned in the Lower House, so this Chamber gets it here when it comes to it. Wait a minute. The same applies to other draft laws that are on the table. That's the way it's supposed to be. I wish Mrs Scholten a speedy recovery. Let me leave it at that. This is really bad for her. Most of what Mrs Strik said is in the area of the Secretary of State. I will say that, of course, we are both in favour of access to justice. We believe that we are making realistic and good proposals. It is, of course, also a set of measures, as Mrs Strik said. We'll watch that together. The pace isn't very high. Some say that your pace of legislation can be a little higher. However, due diligence means that you keep up the pace that is sensible and correct and fits in with the financial system. That is why we always come up with proposals that are very transparent at the moment. Mrs Strik spoke of occasional legislation. I must say that I am sorry to hear that from Mrs Strik. I hate to break it to you, but she can say it. I don't blame her, of course, because who am I, but I don't agree. On the contrary, we are not trying to apply occasional legislation. In our department, we must ensure the quality of legislation. That is what we must stand for, and that is why I am saying this to Mrs Strik. Occasion law is not exactly a high-quality compliment on her part. That is clearly what it is intended to do, and that is why I am reacting to her contribution to this. Madam President, this was my second-term contribution. The Secretary of State is on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u128	Mr. Chairman. I'll keep my second term short. I am not going to repeat what the Minister has already said about the rule of law. He's already told me that goes for me too. I shall begin with the motion with the letter O by Mrs Scholten of the D66 Group. It invites the Government to carry out an investigation as soon as possible and to inform the Court thereof. This research should, among other things, provide insight into the causes of rising costs. Mrs Scholten has already formulated what that is about. I indicated in my first term that we are talking here today about a budget debate of 1 February 2015, especially if it affects the first General Measure of Governance, and about a policy debate on the legislative proposal revision system legal aid and the second AMvB of 1 January 2016. It is important to hold on to that. I have also said that citizens need, above all, a quick and simple solution to the problem. I have therefore involved the studies in the preparation of the system renewal. I do agree with Mrs Scholten that an update could be important. That is what I said in my first term. This can also be in line with the legislative process that is currently taking place. The bill now needs to be amended in the light of consultations and it needs to be sent to the Council of State. The objective is to deal with that bill for the summer in the Chamber on the other side. Whether this research will give us a lot of new insights, I have some hesitation. If, however, the Court considers that it is appropriate to be able to take appropriate decisions, I shall leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. The questions on high trust, which Mrs Scholten mentioned, can also be taken into account. Should this investigation be carried out, we will try to place it as effectively as possible in the current legislative process, both with regard to the legislative proposal and with regard to the 2016 General Measure. That brings me to Mr Franken's motion, with letter M, and to Mrs Strik's motion, with letter P, which I shall deal with at once. Both motions breach the budget and therefore lack financial robustness. It is the good practice of the cabinet to point out, as in the Chamber on the other side, if there is no cover for motions. For both of these motions there is no cover. The General Administrative Measure to be in effect on 1 February is part of the 2015 budget. For that reason, therefore, the improper financial coverage, I must discourage these motions. I also discussed the Franken motion. Mrs Duthler asked me how the non-punitive nature of the own contribution was taken into account in the legislative proposal itself for prisoners. I have already said that this contribution is neither punitive nor punitive. However, I agree with Mrs Duthler that something that is imposed in administrative law can be seen as punishment. At that time, I think it is up to the criminal court to determine what facts and circumstances the criminal court will take into account in the imposition of penalties. The personal financial circumstances of the prisoner and his capacity can therefore also be affected. If a person has been in prison for two years and has to pay up to the maximum amount of €11,680 if that bill takes effect from law, the judge can therefore take that into account. In that sense, it is indeed taken into account. The judge may take it into account. In the case of small amounts, this will not be the case soon, but if it reaches two years, it may be. I had the impression that Mr Reynaers asked for the budget to be retained until after the examination of legal aid. However, he is now suggesting that this is not the case. Then that point is deleted. If that hasn't been said, I shouldn't bring it up. I would like to thank Mr Schrijver and Mrs Strik for the good discussion we had on the problems of bed, bath and bread. I think it would be a good idea to share the feelings of the Chamber on this issue and the cabinet's position on it. Senator Writer and I have done a good job on the i when it comes to the treaties and the legislation. The cabinet knows where the boundaries are. The PvdA Group in this Chamber is also extremely aware of this. We will take that into account in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u129	I also asked if the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u130	I know it again, even without Mrs. Strik asking her question completely. I would like to assure the House that I will send her and the House of Representatives a letter on the state of play regarding the ratification of the Disability Convention, the Children's Convention and economic social rights. I will inform my colleague for Foreign Affairs and the other relevant ministers. That was actually the minister's job. He should have brought that, but he forgot. So I'm gonna do the job for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u131	I understand the Minister would have put it exactly like that. Great. What a huge collaboration between you two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-eerstekamer-3.u132	I understand that there has been a request for a vote, more specifically for a roll-call vote. It will take place next week.
