ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, as well as all the other people who are present in this Chamber or who are following this debate in any other way. Twelve speakers have spoken in favour of this debate. We have agreed a five-minute speaking time and a maximum of three interruptions per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the problems with the pgbs. Yesterday, in view of the statements made by the Labour Party and the VVD, it became clear to me that the outcome of this debate is clear to them. For me, this debate is particularly important in order to enable the Secretary of State to respond to everything that has happened in connection with the implementation of the Dijkstra motion and to explain how we intend to proceed with the resolution of the problems of the pgbs. It is also important for me to take a political view of the way in which the Secretary of State has operated in recent times and of his powers of persuasion to reverse this. Both points are inextricably linked for my group. On the second point, I am a little concerned in this debate; I am referring to the suspicion that it is already in place. The Labour Party and the VVD have actually already answered that question in advance. As far as I am concerned, today is about the payout problems around the pgbs. On 1 January, the Social Insurance Bank became responsible for this. It soon became clear that the SVB is not up to its new task. Caregivers don't get paid late or wrong or throw down the axe. Declarations go missing. The ICT system is raging on all sides. Pgb holders are sent from the locker to the wall if they already reach the Social Insurance Bank. It's noises that keep on going. In front of D66 was and stands the pgb holder and his healthcare provider first. That is why my group has always placed priority on a quick payout. With the Dijkstra motion, the Chamber gave the government until 15 May time to get that payment in order. The Secretary of State has written to the Chamber that 95% of the claims are paid on time. He calls the system robust. By the way, this still means that every month 10,000 declarations are not paid out in time. Despite all the parliamentary questions and hearings, the question remains: what value should we give to these figures? We do see more positive figures, but the percentage of 95 is questioned by experts. More importantly, what these figures say is even more important. What does this sample measure? Is that what we want to know? How is the improvement compared to earlier this year and how structural is it? The simple question as to what percentage of all declarations submitted will be paid on time will not be answered by the Secretary of State. Is that because he doesn't want to answer or because he can't answer, because the SVB's ICT systems cannot provide this very basic management information, because there is no insight into the number of incorrect declarations and no link can be made between the affordable and the paid declarations? We simply cannot answer the question of whether these payments are being made on a regular basis. I would like the Secretary of State to clarify this matter today. Doesn't he think that he sketches too rosy a picture in his letter of 18 May? All invited parties to last week's hearing were of the opinion that payments are not yet properly made on a regular basis. So there's a big difference between the story of VWS and the experiences of people in practice. The Court cracks hard notes on the introduction of the drawing right pgb. The focus was too much on introduction as of 1 January, critical sounds were not listened to enough and a chain-wide direction was missing. By reducing the level of ambition and setting up relapse scenarios, the SVB summit had in its own words "the feeling that it could succeed." The lower abdomen of the SVB-top has left tens of thousands of pgb-holders and caregivers in the cold. However, the Secretary of State considers that the introduction has been careful. As of September last year, D66 and other groups have regularly asked if it would work out. During the budget debate on 19 November, I literally asked whether the SVB could handle it all. Every time there were reassuring words from the Secretary of State. However, the warnings were there internally. The 70 reports and progress reports that we as Parliament received at the end of April only after a long time of pressing show that. The Secretary of State said I have daily meetings with the SVB. I can see why he said that now. In the October progress report, the SVB wrote: we are lagging behind the facts and the feasibility as of 1 January is risky. Then why did the Secretary of State always tend to want to make things right? According to ICT experts, the SVB's systems are not at all tailored to what needs to be done. It will take months, if not years, to get a well-functioning system. How does the Secretary of State proceed with these conclusions? The pgb is an important and beautiful tool to give people their own direction about the care they receive. However, I am now very concerned about the possibility that the whole pgb will perish because of this chaos. I say it very explicitly: D66 does not want that. The answers and the tone of the Secretary of State have so far been particularly optimistic rather than realistic. His tone and answers are therefore very important to my group today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	We get late information, no information or rosy information. We have now also been able to read the reconstruction of the General Court. We actually have amazing information about what we didn't get from the Secretary of State. Mrs Dijkstra states that we cannot check whether her motion has been carried out. However, she asked the Secretary of State to convince her. What can the Secretary of State come up with today to convince D66 that the payments are regular and the problems have been solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	I realize that this is a very difficult question. The letter from the Secretary of State of 18 May did not convince us. That is why we have heard the SVB, the interests and the aldermen. I am very curious to see what the Secretary of State himself will say about this. I would also find it very realistic if the Secretary of State said: we do not know. I wonder what he'll come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	After five debates, a lot of requests for information, drawing and pushing, all kinds of motions tabled and a sharp tone towards the Secretary of State, would it really be enough for D66 if today the Secretary of State acknowledges that he doesn't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	No, that's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	What does the Secretary of State have to do to convince D66 today that he took the right choices before 1 January and took us with him after 1 January and gave us the right information? I'm curious about that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	I have made it clear in my speech that I think it is very important for the Secretary of State to come up with a convincing answer. However, I am not going to put that in his mouth. I want to hear from the Secretary of State how he looks at this and how he explains it. That is what we shall judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	During the fourth debate, Mrs Dijkstra tabled a motion asking the government to put the regular payments in order on 15 May. I supported that motion. In his letter of 28 April, the Secretary of State outlined a route for this purpose. He made that march on May 18: 95% of all payments take place within ten days and 98% within fourteen days. When does Mrs Dijkstra herself think that her motion has been carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	My motion is carried out if we can see what's going on with the payments as a whole. We now only know what happens to the payments that are correct and that go smoothly. But the SVB has indicated itself, not knowing what happens to all those declarations that are not yet in order. They are in stock, but we do not know how many of them are being treated and how many are not. We don't know where it all goes wrong either. We just don't have a picture of the whole thing. I want to get that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	The 95% is based on correct and incorrect declarations. In fact, the Secretary of State's march was only about correctly filed declarations. Why didn't you say on 28 April that that wasn't enough? When will it be sufficient for you to carry out your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	I've already indicated that I want to be able to oversee the whole thing. I understand from the SVB and the audit service that that information is simply not present. So we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	For a good debate, it is very important that it is clear that we have differences of opinion and that we agree on. I would like to refer to what Mrs Dijkstra said, that the Secretary of State would not acknowledge that mistakes have been made in the introduction. I am quite sure that the answer to questions is that the introduction did not go well, for which apologies have been made. Where is the difference of opinion with the cabinet at that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	The difference of opinion lies in the fact that it is said: the process has gone carefully, it has not been done well, for which the Secretary of State and the SVB have indeed apologized. But the Secretary of State has not at any time indicated what his role has been in this and whether he himself may have made mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mrs Dijkstra therefore acknowledges that the cabinet also indicates that mistakes have been made in introducing the right to draw. But she wants to hear explicitly how the Secretary of State sees his own role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	I do want to hear how the Secretary of State assesses his own role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	I also want to make it clear what Mrs Dijkstra is waiting for. She wants clarity on the unpaid declarations. Last week we had a very clear hearing with the SVB and the audit service. For us, it was crystal clear that the 95% was in order on the basis of the declarable declarations. Everyone was convinced of the sincerity and care associated with it. If today there is clarity about the unaffordable declarations and Mrs Dijkstra is convinced, is the picture complete? Or does she need more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	We are, of course, having this debate in order to clarify things. But I'm not going to say in advance when I'm satisfied, because I want to hear the answers first. You said everyone thought it was so clear. It was particularly clear that the audit service could not carry out the assignment received because the information was not available. I explicitly asked for it, and it was also agreed. This means that there are still questions about what we see in the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	We're all looking for clarity. I also appreciate that you want it, but I think the audit service said last time: on the basis of the information and the sample, we were able to make a reliable measurement. The audit service said that this was not on the basis of information that we have immediately available, but we can really, reliably say that 95% of the declarations made are paid out. That was based on a reliable sample. We've all been on top of that, and I'm sure that image came into being. You ask for non-affordable claims. You want to be clear about that. However, I would also like to try to get a sharper focus on the debate. What do we all, and especially you, want to have clarity about now, given the motion that you have tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	That seems clear to me. I reported that, too. I have indicated that I want clarification from the Secretary of State on that motion and on whether it has actually been implemented. The motion dealt with the following: I think it is also important to establish that with each other. We wanted to know if the regular payment regime was in order. I don't have that picture completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. Those who are entitled to care should be given good care and those who provide care should be paid properly and on time. It makes so much sense, but yet this is exactly what the Secretary of State hasn't done in months. We are now in the sixth episode of the pgb-drama, but a good ending is not in sight. A lot of promises have been made, but each time, at the end of the month, caregivers are out of money. A lot of figures have been presented, about how many people get their money on time, but each time they turn out to be half or wrong. There have been tough deadlines, but each time the Secretary of State sets himself goals that he cannot deliver. What is wrong with a secretary of state to risk the care of 130,000 pgb-holders and 240,000 aid workers? Why did he hit warnings in the wind last year? Why didn't he listen to all those people who said paying through the Social Insurance Bank is a good idea, but that careful implementation wasn't gonna work. Why did this Secretary of State gas when he was approaching a crossroads when everyone knows you have to reduce gas? Pgb holders and caregivers are entitled to a solution, but precisely the pride of this Secretary of State has prevented a good solution. He hasn't reduced the chaos, he's magnified it. People who depend on care or who provide care pay a high price, financial problems, great uncertainty and stress. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that he made a major error of assessment in 2014 and, as the General Court also says, recognizes that he should have taken more time and rest in order to carefully supervise and arrange this process? It seems to me that the Secretary of State is currently fighting harder for his own position than for those who depend on care, and that the imagery is more important than the facts. Every letter the Secretary of State sends to the Chamber is a smokescreen. It is sand in the eyes of parliament, and thus in the eyes of society. We cannot answer the question whether all payments are going properly on 15 May because the Social Insurance Bank has not investigated this and has no structural insight into the progress of claims. On 20 January, the Secretary of State wrote to us that there might have been a few problems, but that everything would be settled within a week. In fact, six days later, he answered parliamentary questions and wrote that payouts will continue if the care agreements have not been approved. Turns out there wasn't much of it. If the Secretary of State knew this, it is now clear from the reconstruction of the General Court of Auditors Why did he choose to speak soothing language towards pgb-holders and the House of Representatives? He knew at that moment that the chaos at the Social Insurance Bank was complete, didn't he? Why did the Secretary of State promise that payments would be settled within five days to apologize a week later? He knew he was promising something that wasn't gonna work. Why did this Secretary of State put emergency scenarios into effect in the autumn and decide that uncontrolled payments would be made? Why didn't he report it to the Chamber? At that time, all the groups in this Chamber were asking whether it was all right. Why did he fail to report that to the Chamber? Does he realize that this has taken away the opportunity for the Chamber to intervene and to save him from a huge mistake? The big question today is why the Secretary of State isn't just being honest. Why does he not acknowledge that he made a mistake last year when it was introduced and why does he not now recognise that it is not going well? How much misery could this have saved budget holders and caregivers? However, we are also discussing solutions today. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether he is prepared, in the meantime, as long as it is not regular, to give people their own budget back to their own administration or to give municipalities the freedom to carry it out themselves, because the SVB still does. Is the Secretary of State also prepared to reserve today a substantial amount for damage suffered by healthcare professionals and budget holders due to these problems? Is the Secretary of State prepared to leave out all the smokescreens now so that the Chamber can be completely open about what is happening and thus also the budget holders and the caregivers? Today we would like to hear a Secretary of State who acknowledges that he was wrong last year when he was introduced. That's when he got ahead of himself. We also want him now to acknowledge that he was not honest about what was going on this year. To a secretary of state who says "get some sleep, there's nothing wrong" we have nothing at all. Pgb holders are not, caregivers are not, nor are the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. For the sixth time, the Chamber debates with the Secretary of State on the payment problems at SVB. It's a debacle with a lot of misery for caregivers, budget holders and the Social Insurance Bank's ground troops who have to clean up the shrapnel. On April 28th, the Chamber finally received a huge pile of pieces, which the CDA Group has been asking for since the beginning of March. From these pieces there is an image of a several times warned Secretary of State. He was warned by internal senior officials at VWS and the Health Institute, as well as externally by municipalities and Per Balance. The Secretary of State saw warnings as an incentive to move forward, to make bypasses, to formulate relapse scenarios and to start a simple payout system in the ICT field, which is linked to the administration. In any case, that system was not equipped for the exercise of the right to draw, which falls or stands in the case of automated data exchange. Since 20 May, we have known the Court of Auditors' report, with on page 56 a timeline that speaks volumes. The verdict is well known: careless. The government response is that it does not agree with it, because this assessment is not appropriate in view of all the efforts made. Does the Secretary of State consider that there is an effort obligation for the government? On 20 January 2014, the Secretary of State says to the Chamber: we must ensure that there are no problems when drawing rights are introduced and people are wrongly given too little or no money at all. So the Secretary of State saw the importance of that. But then, on 10 June 2014, the Secretary of State says: by the way, I have not received any signals that the problems cannot be resolved before 1 January 2015. On 26 March 2014, two and a half months before that, the highest ICT official, the CIO, judges: it is unlikely that the ICT solution will be realised by all parties before 1 January 2015. How does the Secretary of State view this? Why did he dismiss this judgment? On 24 November 2014, the Secretary of State will respond to questions from the CDA about the big bang that municipalities expected at the time of its introduction: as of 1 January 2015, a system will function to ensure that clients can pay for the care and support they need from the pgb. And another answer: "To connect the SVB's ICT to that of municipalities, a number of facilities are available or under development. These provisions shall be sufficient for the start of drawing rights as from 1 January 2015." Was this information correct? On 15 October 2014, the Secretary of State says: "So far I have received signals that it could be technically regulated on 1 January 2015.' The General Court says that on 15 October an Deloitte study showed that it was still unclear what the system could and could not handle. On 17 November the CDA again asks written questions. These questions are all about the issues that have now been so seriously missed. Why does the Secretary of State not reply until 16 January, the day when the VNG and SVB introduce the relapse scenarios at the request of VWS, including the automatic payment of claims? Does the Secretary of State consider that he has fully informed the Chamber of the major implementation risks? Is it not the case that the Secretary of State has approached reality carelessly, in haste and underestimatingly? The Chamber has the Dijkstra c.s. motion. After the Secretary of State has embraced it. The motion states that the payout regime shall operate on a regular basis by 15 May at the latest. On 18 May, the Secretary of State wrote in the letter of Parliament that the payments went well for 95%. The VWS site says that the promised results have been achieved. When, one and a half days later, after a lot of pressure, the sample, on the basis of which this conclusion was drawn, was sent to the Chamber, it turned out to be starving. During the technical briefing, the audit service confirmed that the sample was made among the affordable declarations, thus the success stories. Experts indicate that the conclusion reached by the State Secretary is selective. At best you can conclude that on average 87% has been paid within ten days. The One-Today survey states that 40% of people still have problems. Why does the Secretary of State insist that the promised results have been achieved? What's he basing that on? Can the Secretary of State also give a concrete indication of how many of the declarations received by the SVB have not been paid? How many healthcare agreements are in order and how many still need to be adapted? How many e-mails, letters and phone calls have been answered and how many haven't been answered? How many tariffs have not been correctly introduced? If the Secretary of State gives us these figures later, what does he base them on? Finally, the CDA hears from the Secretary of State why he continues to conclude that it is a good sample and that payments are largely in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. When yesterday my colleague Karen Gerbrands explained to me in my room with a smile and a tear how terrible it is that because of the cuts people themselves have to put on their support stockings, I remembered that I had come home not only at work but also politically. I would like to thank Karen from this place for the excellent replacement during my maternity leave. This debate is no longer about the victims but about how Secretary of State Van Rijn can stay, because if that does not happen, the cabinet will thunder. Look at what Deputy Prime Minister Asscher said yesterday. Van Rijn had worked hard for two years to improve care. I couldn't suppress a smile when I heard those words. What about Wouter Bos? You'd think he'd want to sacrifice Secretary of State Klijnsma for Van Rijn. After all, he stresses that she is the owner of the Social Insurance Bank. It's been like this for a couple of weeks. Last week we heard that, despite the fact that the Social Insurance Bank had always felt that it could succeed, Mr Pechtold did not feel that way for a moment. During lunch, he told Deputy Prime Minister Asscher in between the sandwiches that Van Rijn no longer receives support from D66. Panic! So Otwin van Dijk gets tense in front of the government cart. He suddenly saw the light of day an hour before the debate that was due to take place two weeks ago and thought that the postponement of the debate, as previously requested by the opposition, was actually a good idea. The head of the Social Insurance Bank began with sincere apologies to the injured, but Prime Minister Rutte refused to make that apology, because that was what he thought was gratuitous. That's a blow to the face of all those hardworking Dutchmen. What did he say at the VVD Congress? "We are the banners of the values of the hardworking Dutchman!" Apparently not the value of those tens of thousands of hard-working caregivers. Speaking of "gratuit"! The Secretary of State has once apologized for repeatedly indicating that the leak is almost upstairs and the problems are almost solved. Cheer letter after cheer letter, while caregivers sat on dry bread and even had to take loans to get through another month, while small care initiatives even fell over. Back then Secretary of State Weekers took credit for himself for a similar problem: the chain did not function and the Tax Administration, owned by the government, had checked. That is also the case now: the chain is not functioning and the Social Insurance Bank, which is owned by the government, has checked. I ask Secretary of State Van Rijn what difference or, as far as I am concerned, what agreement he sees with the case of Bulgarian fraud. The Secretary of State would be afraid that he will be the victim of political games today. Doesn't the Secretary of State realize he's failing? He entered the trekking right knowingly and knowingly, while all the signals were on red. We didn't know anything about it because he was withholding the reports. That is incomplete information. Didn't he realize that he couldn't make it again to play nicely again and to talk actively about "the last percent', while in the distance there is no system that, in Mrs Dijkstra's motion, works on a regular basis and there, with a chic word, "ambitshalve', in plain Dutch: manually ticked? It's not about the last percent. According to a survey carried out by EenVandaag, there are as many as 40% of the cases of payout problems. It was the General Court that said, on the question of whether it will ever be okay, that it is looking in a glass ball. I want a response from the Secretary of State. That's a completely different picture, a counter-image, than "the last percent." Then I don't understand why there's no deep bowing and apology coming to the doomed, who have been deprived of income because of his debt. People not only didn't get excuses, they got intimidation from the Social Insurance Bank: they had to play nice again. That is a culture of beautiful talk and beauty making tens of thousands of caregivers suffer from a vicious political game of puppets. If I were Secretary of State, I'd be embarrassed and, I think, I'd be honoring myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. Today is the 4th of June and so we tumble into a sixth month of pgb-chaos. Personal dramas are still taking place. The rapid response team is less deployed, but is still badly needed. Band-aids have been taped on all sides, but the wound hasn't healed yet. I have a lot of questions today. We need to know where we stand and where we are going and what is and what is not feasible. These 130,000 budget holders are just entitled to this. The Secretary of State sketches in his letters a far too rosy picture. That's what my group really shot in the wrong throat. Last week's hearing was necessary to get a real insight into the problem. There is a critical report from the Court of Auditors. One of the criticisms is that no one actually predicted that the introduction by January 2015 would not be feasible. How did that happen? During last week's technical briefing it appeared that the SVB had "the feeling" to make it. It went horribly wrong. According to the Court of Auditors, the VWS Ministry did not recognise sufficient signals. The Ministry of Social Affairs has not sufficiently monitored the feasibility. That's a lot of criticism. I would like to have a reaction from both Secretary of State today. How's it going now? The SVB's telephone accessibility is better, the rapid response team is functioning and the number of people in the bottle is falling steadily, given the amount of messages in my mailbox. But we're far from there. With a lot of art and flying I mention the safety net arrangements and the emergency solutions payments are made, but the basis is not right. Previously, with the support of my group, the Chamber adopted a motion stating that payments should be in order by 15 May. What did the Secretary of State write? 94% to 95% of the payable declarations were paid on time. So 5% isn't. Then we're still talking about 12,000 people. And where are the unpaid declarations? That is a very important question for my group. No one's been able to tell me how many people this is about. Hundreds? Thousands? We don't know, nor the SVB. It's really a black box. Has the Secretary of State therefore chosen to leave this group completely out of the picture? I don't understand why the Secretary of State hasn't been proactively looking for these figures before. He also wants to know which files can't be processed and for what reason? And how is it that 30% of budget holders have not yet spent on the budget that is ready? We don't know. I can't rule out that below are people who aren't getting the care they need right now. I find that very worrying. Groningen would have lost 1.2 million in solving the problems. Rotterdam has deployed 17 FTE. Seventeen municipalities make use of an emergency facility, which my group has also called for. People themselves incur costs for loans, for example, because they get no or insufficient income. The Secretary of State has agreed to reimburse these costs, but where is he going to get the money from? When can municipalities and budget holders send their accounts for compensation? Of the 60,000 budgets that have been allocated on their own initiative, 27 000 still have to be made final. It is not going to succeed in getting this job done by 1 July, and then there will be a whole range of re-indications. In the round table we heard from several municipalities that it will certainly take until the end of this year for all problems to be resolved. Does the Secretary of State recognize this? I want an honest answer to that. Months ago, my group spoke of a pgb-proof system, a system in which the budget holder is in charge. I was therefore shocked by the comments made at the hearing that the system has become more complicated and complicated, partly because of the interference of many parties. Now the system has become so complex that it is unworkable. For each type of care, per contract and per client there can be a separate maximum rate, which means that 220,000 different maximum rates have to be included in the system. Who makes that up? The Christian Union therefore joins Per Balance's call to make the system much and much simpler. Per Balance has also made good recommendations for this. There's work to be done. That's obvious. The Christian Union asks the Secretary of State of VWS what commitment he has made. What's the goal he wants to work towards? Is he confident you're gonna be okay? I've asked that question before, and I really want an answer now. The budget holders and the caregivers are now entitled to hear the honest story; no more rosy talk. Where are the problems? How and when were they resolved? How do we ensure that they are not in uncertainty month after month after month? It is now up to the U.S. Secretary of State to convince the Christian Union that it is he who is going to do this job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. Last week there was a hearing here in the Chamber with, among other things, the Social Insurance Bank. One of the directors of the Social Insurance Bank said there: as strong as the chain is, so strong is the system. But in my opinion, the statement is different: the chain is as strong as the weakest link. I think that is more appropriate. And the weakest link did not turn out to be the municipalities, as was feared. It was not the budget holders, who are often dismissed as fraudsters. It certainly wasn't the caregivers who cared for months without money. We must note that the weakest link has proved to be the Social Insurance Bank, and that this link was too weak to properly implement the right of draw. The Social Insurance Bank acts under the responsibility of these two directors. Today's question is: has the Dijkstra motion been properly implemented? Does the payout regime function on a regular basis since 15 May or, in plain Dutch, do the people who are entitled to it because they have worked for it just get their money? In order to be able to judge that correctly, we need to know a number of things. First of all... How many declarations are there in total? Second. How many of these declarations have been properly filed? Third. How many declarations have not been properly filed? Fourth. How many of the incorrect declarations did something go wrong because of mistakes in the system, the chain or at the Social Insurance Bank, or how many people who did everything right, did the declaration come up "not correct"? Those are the people who are entitled to the pgb anyway. Fifth. How many declarations have been in the system since April? Sixth. How many of the claims rightly made have been, correctly or not, paid in good time? Are people getting the money they've worked for now? I would like an honest and clear answer to these questions, without the Ruttian optimism that seems to have leapt over the Secretary of State. No "hip, hip, hip! Hooray!"campaigns more, because GroenLinks is done with that. Over and over again we have heard that it would be all right by now, but the problems remained. Does the Secretary of State consider that he has properly informed the Chamber or has he proposed to the Chamber that things should be too rosy, even though he could have known that they were more serious? There is a very clear report from the General Court which states that the introduction of the right of draw has been careless. The ministries of VWS and SZW and the Social Insurance Bank did not fulfil their role properly during the implementation process. Clear signals have not been recognised sufficiently, although several parties indicated that there were large risks. No execution test has been performed, although this should have been done. Can the Secretary of State of VWS and SZW therefore undertake to accept all the Court's conclusions and recommendations? For the time being they do not and that is GroenLinks a thorn in the eye. Because that seems to me to be a condition for resolving the problems. How are the injured carers compensated? The Secretary of State is waving the problems away time and time again. As far as I am concerned, this is really the last time we have to have such a debate here. Is the Secretary of State coming up with a fair and clear story? That is what we Members of Parliament want so that we can do our job properly, but that is especially important for those who are in uncertainty about when they receive their money. I would also like to respond to Mr Van Dijk's interruption to Mrs Dijkstra's speech on the route. Of course, we have all watched the march very carefully. When I look at that, I still have a lot of questions. I cannot conclude from that route that the motion by Mr Dijkstra, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Voortman was properly carried out. For example, I look at goal 1b in the letter: "From all correct declarations received from April onwards, the amount of the labour cost compensation on the declaration has been paid to the correct health care provider within ten working days of intake." However, we do not know whether that is the case, because the number of unpaid declarations is not known for the time being any more than the time they are already there. It is also stated in the letter: "All fixed monthly wages have been paid and new monthly wages have been paid in good time." That was point 2. 95% of those people would have been paid, but we do not know whether they have been paid within ten days, as should be, or perhaps after five weeks. Let me give you another example, point 3: 'All urgent/striking cases are paid within one to three days'. According to the Secretary of State, this is the case. But Per Balance figures show that 10% of emergency notifications are not paid out within three days. So they take more time. On 19 May, after the deadline of 15 May, there were even 76 cases of distressing reports. I can go on for a while if I look specifically at that march route, but in itself I have asked all my questions. I see that the time is up and that's why I'm leaving it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	Madam President. People with a personal budget prefer to direct their own care and their own guidance. They want to decide for themselves which tools they use, so that they receive the best care with the limited budget. Fortunately, the value of the personal budget is widely supported. There is no political difference of opinion. Wide support was also given to the idea of introducing the right to draw, as well as to place it with the independent administrative body, the Social Insurance Bank. Meanwhile, we have been dealing with a situation in which many budget holders have lost their own direction in a very painful way. Unfortunately, there are many of them still are. They fight against inflexible systems and bureaucratic mills. In doing so, self-direction became powerless. That is extremely frustrating for all those budget holders and caregivers. It is therefore very important for us to hear whether everything is being done to solve the remaining problems and to give the budget holders back their own direction. Looking back on the past period, we see that much has improved. Man and power have been working on better and faster payouts. We have a great deal of appreciation for this commitment. We also get that in the positive e-mails of people who say: fortunately it works for me. But the other side also says: there are still too many problems. Frankly, I am not looking forward to a debate with word games or figures wars on what exactly is or is not included under regular basic care. I keep it simple: there are just too many problems left. Every day we receive distressing e-mails that prove that we are simply not there yet. Anyone who sees that kind of e-mail and hears those stories gets sad and angry. After all, none of us want this. Contracts are lost and double payments are made. There is no way of getting hold of the fact that one month is paid out properly and the next month is not. Important questions for us are therefore: what is being done to tackle these remaining problems and when have these problems actually been resolved? The hearing and all the information we have received so far give an idea that you have to jump through a lot of hoops to get the green light into the system. Someone used this image at the hearing, too. If something goes wrong with a hoop like that, it goes wrong. The system is therefore very fault-sensitive and vulnerable. What possibilities already exist to make the system simpler and less sensitive to errors? Do we have to wait for these adjustments to be put in order, or can we take steps already? How does the Secretary of State see the remaining problems that we hear through the e-mail and through the hearing? Is there some sort of common pattern in the things that are going wrong right now? How is it that sometimes something is repaired in one month and then it doesn't go well again? The Court has been promised, among other things, that the online platform My PCI would be put in order. Is it true that this has not yet come to its own? Another commitment was that budget holders or caregivers with an error in the healthcare file could contact a SVB employee directly who has access rights to the software in order to correct errors. When is this gonna work? We hear from the practice that this is not yet in order. How can the step be taken in the communication that is incredibly important to people, namely that if something goes wrong, it will also be communicated quickly and actively and it will be made clear what is wrong and how it can be solved? Those are the most important questions for the moment. However, I have to note that, if I look through, there will be new concerns after all the payment problems have been resolved. I do not want to make it even more gloomy than necessary, but I want to make the picture clear for the future. We are still dealing with the settlement of incorrect payments resulting from ex-officio-approved declarations, with re-indications to be incorporated into the system, and with tariff indexation. These are new chapters in the pgb execution file. How is the Secretary of State going to direct that difficult trial? During this debate, the central issue for the SGP is how to solve all the problems as well and as quickly as possible, just as long as all budget holders are able to exercise that much-needed direction over their own care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	I believe that Mr Van der Staaij has co-signed the Dijkstra and others motion. It states that on 15 May the payout will work on a regular basis. What does Mr Van der Staaij think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	My conclusion is that there are simply too many problems. That motion has worked, in the sense of calling a deadline instead of saying that we are doing our best and we will see. We wanted to hear a date. This has led to the fact that when it comes to well-filled declarations, that is also what I hear back when we ask questions. So in that sense, I see that the system works, but if something goes wrong somewhere, it still remains very vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	I thought that motion was broader than that. It was about the general functioning of the payouts on a regular basis and wasn't limited to the success stories, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	Indeed, it states that the pay-out regime for both the so-called monthly labourers and the healthcare providers who are paid on declaration is functioning on a regular basis by 15 May at the latest. The Secretary of State kept his story, also on the basis of samples with a certain percentage. Others say that with another sample you get another percentage. I'm fine with it all. I am hearing this debate with a great deal of interest. For me, the heart of the matter is: how do we tackle the problems that remain? Important steps forward have been taken. There's still too much going wrong. How can we help that budget holder? I think that is the most important question for me in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u31	I hear Mr Van der Staaij say: I am fine with it. But actually I hear him say: no, it's not fine at all, it's not going on a regular basis for all the people who depend on the pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u32	My point is clear. Things aren't going well enough right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u33	Madam President. Again, for the umpteenth time, we are standing before all those budget holders and caregivers who have been facing these problems for so long. We wouldn't be standing here if these Secretary of State had done their job properly. 50PLUS has heard the Secretary of State of VWS make several promises. For example in February, in March and in May. Recently, he indicated that 94% of the outstanding declarations had been paid within the correct time limit. That's very creative. Crampy attempts are being made to cover up the truth. So many payouts are not correct, late or done to the wrong person. And what about the sample to demonstrate that the improvement measures had sufficient effect? The declarations that stranded in the system before weren't even included. Even the Social Insurance Bank doesn't know how many there are. What is the response of the Secretary of State to the Nieuwsuur report in which experts deal with the way the results have been presented? Very striking is the answer to two of last week's 50PLUS questions. In reply to Question 104, we are told that the qualification does not do justice to it carelessly and in reply 105 it says that it is deeply regrettable that this has not been done very carefully. What is it now? First of all, we are getting a twist about the fact that we call the introduction careless and the next answer is not careful. 50PLUS now wants to hear from both rulers what the answer should really be. Another example: the Secretary of State said the leak is upstairs, the Prime Minister describes it as "we're trying to get the leak out." Which one's got it right? And then there's the extra cost. The municipality of Groningen indicated that the additional costs of this debacle should be estimated at 1.2 million. This, in turn, is more than 100 million damage for all municipalities. This amount will increase further by offsetting the budgets paid out of their own resources. VWS has undertaken to reimburse the additional costs. Will the rulers stay with their previous commitment, even if this goes beyond the budget? And where is it reported, at VWS or at SZW? People are still in financial distress. Recently, Per Balance announced that 10% of the emergency payments do not meet the three-day payment deadline. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? The compensation scheme for damage to property follows at the earliest after the summer. It won't do you much good if you're in trouble. What's "after summer"? Is that September or December or is that the summer of next year? I'd like a response. Can the Secretary of State confirm once again that due to the extra pressure at the Social Insurance Bank no additional measures are necessary to ensure that the implementation of, for example, AOW and child benefit is carried out properly? The key question for 50PLUS remains: did the ministries really not hear alarm bells ring in 2014? How is it possible that since spring 2014 VWS has been so-called more directing and has taken actions to ensure that the implementation is successful, but that it has gone wrong on this scale? How is it possible that the opinion of the General Court of Auditors to carry out an implementation test in autumn 2014 has been blown apart? Didn't anyone really see the need for an extensive test? Is it possible that the data transfer went so badly? How is it possible that, at an official meeting, the municipality of Maastricht had so little confidence in the proper introduction of measures, something that many more municipalities are now doing? Has there been any deliberate determination? That impression creeps us out. Can the rulers explain why the Law on Standards could be postponed top incomes for caregivers, with due care, and why the drawing right pgb had to be introduced with steam and boiling water? Why did speed go above caution? I'd like a response. Madam President. We are waiting for the answer, of course, but for 50PLUS the size was already full. Nevertheless, I will conclude with a great deal of appreciation, not to the Secretary of State, but to all the caregivers who, despite everything, do their job, and, of course, to the interest groups working day and night to minimise the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u34	Mr. Chairman. With a personal budget, people can arrange the care that suits them best. That's good because it directs your own care and your own life. The pgb is now finally laid down in all the laws of care. In order to make it solid, we all wanted a right to draw, but then the payment to caregivers must go well. That didn't go well at first and needs to be even better. That can only be done better by showing that you take the problems seriously, tackle them and solve them. Over the past few months, all those involved have worked hard to address the payout problems, by the SVB, Per Balance and the Secretary of State. But I realize that this has required a lot of patience and frustration from pgb holders. I understand the despondency that pgb-holders have sometimes felt and still feel. I've talked to a lot of pgb-holders about it. However, I also see that a huge leap forward has been made. I don't see that alone. In most cases, payments are now made on time. In case of emergency, the rapid response team will pay out within one or a few days. The accessibility of the SVB has greatly improved. It is a big difference from the first debate we had on payout problems. We can see that the drawing rights system is still very complicated. So it has to be simpler. We have now come to the point where we have identified a number of bottlenecks and we have gained insight into how to do better. Mr Van der Staaij talked about the amount of hoops you have to jump through. With each hoop there is the risk of errors. How do you make a trekking right that is simpler and more customer-friendly? In this respect, it must be ensured that it is regulated as budget holders find it easier. In their letter, PerSaldo and Elke also point out the simplification of the system. The PvdA strongly supports that plea. Can the Secretary of State tell us how the talks are going on and how he's going to handle it? The SVB works hard. We have every appreciation for that. But what exactly happens if a declaration doesn't match a file? At such a time, contact from the SVB with a pgb-holder is needed, to see how the problem can be solved together. Does that happen by default? The same applies to the working stock. The SVB Audit Service's sample under paid declarations shows that most of the correct and incorrect declarations are paid out on time. It's very relevant if that image is stable. Can the Secretary of State say if it is? The sample is about paid declarations. But what happens to the unpaid claims? They're in the work stash. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that this also becomes clear quickly? During the hearing, it was found that care providers have difficulty accessing the rapid response team. That team has an entrance for pgb holders and for care entrepreneurs. Does the Secretary of State want to arrange that alsozzp'ers can easily get in touch with the emergency team?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u35	The issue of non-affordable declarations went very quickly. The subject was discussed at the hearing last week. We really have no idea where these people are, where the declarations are, how many people it is: it's really a black box. What does the PvdA Group think about us not targeting these people? They're people who sometimes haven't paid out at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u36	I understand from last week's hearing that the unpaid declarations are in the working stock. That includes the new declarations, but also all unpaid declarations. I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that we need to understand the unpaid declarations. Hence my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u37	But doesn't the PvdA Group think it's quite amazing that we should ask the Secretary of State this question today? A few weeks ago, we received a letter which said quite triumphantly that 95% of the payable declarations had been paid. There was no mention of the non-affordable declarations. Why do we have to put this question to the Secretary of State today?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u38	We ask this question to the Secretary of State. We've done that before. In the letter he sent, he responded to the march he himself outlined in response to Mrs Dijkstra's motion. In that sense, his letter complies with the motion and with the questions put by the Chamber. The Court of Auditors has presented an investigation into the introduction of the right of draw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u39	Mrs Keijzer would like to comment on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u40	I have here the report from the Audit Service for me. It says as a kind of disclaimer: the Social Insurance Bank has no insight into the lead time of declarations from receipt up to and including payment. Nevertheless, Mr Van Dijk says that 95% of everything has been paid. However, page 12 of the report does not mention the percentage of 95, but states that between 79% and 90% have been paid. In other words, 87% of all claims that have been made have been paid within 10 days. How is it that Mr Van Dijk here simply insists that the motion has been carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u41	We see a huge leap forward. This led to a payout percentage of 95 in the week before 15 May. This was prepared by the Audit Service and audited by an independent auditor. Then I'm assuming that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u42	However, in that audit report, there is actually only one conclusion from that very valuable auditor, namely that 87% of the annual turnover is the percentage. So again, how is it that Mr Van Dijk says here: no, the 95% mentioned by the Secretary of State is correct? It doesn't seem that interesting if that's 87% or 95%, but assuming 250,000 caregivers, you're talking about 20,000 people. That does not seem to me to be something that the PvdA Group can say: it does not matter, we simply assume the very best percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u43	Any helper who has not been paid is, of course, a personal tragedy. I agree with Mrs Keijzer; we agree with each other. In fact, we need to look at precisely how we ensure that we get from 87%, 95% or 99% to 100% correct payouts. In my opinion, the solution lies in making the system simpler. Less hoops, less complexity and a simpler and more customer-oriented trekking law system, that's the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mr. Chairman. I really want to use my third interruption, because I think this is important. Mr Van Dijk is now shaving past my question and is not answering it. Of course, we are all here in the interests of the budget holder, but the question is, of course, whether it is true what the Secretary of State says and whether the information is complete. The SVB says no, it's 87%. Then the PvdA must also say: 'Dear Secretary of State, that is not correct'. Otherwise, the PvdA will lose its credibility, won't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u46	We see that the Audit Service concludes in the report that in the week closest to the reference date we agreed on, there is a 95% payout. That's what we agreed on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u47	The Dijkstra motion, which also included my name, did not say: look at any moment what the state of affairs is, but it said: on that date payments must be regular. The Secretary of State then indicated on the march that he thought it would be possible to assess whether payments were regular, but there was still a great deal to be done about that as far as I was concerned. I have just mentioned the examples. Whether all the corrections received from April have been paid within ten working days, we do not know at all, because the number of unpaid declarations and how long they are there is currently unknown. Of the people who were paid over the month of March, whether that is 95% or 87%, we do not know at all whether they have been paid within ten days, as the Secretary of State claims, or perhaps within five weeks. Furthermore, on 19 May there were 76 poignant reports. How then is it that Mr Van Dijk assumes that the Dijkstra motion has been implemented in its entirety?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u48	Mrs Voortman will also see that a huge leap forward has been made. That was also the aim of Mrs Dijkstra's motion, which I also supported. In it was a march route of the Secretary of State for the criteria he would test. On almost all these criteria, that was finally achieved. But am I satisfied? No, in the end, we have to get to a system that does what it has to do. That is that people simply have a right to draw so that they can direct their own care. So it's gotta be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u49	I note that Mr Van Dijk does not go into the examples I give, which the Secretary of State does not mention either. There is still a great deal to be done about whether that march route and thus the Dijkstra motion has been made. But let's also look at our own mailbox. I also received e-mails yesterday and the day before yesterday from people who have still not been paid. How is that possible? Is it not surprising that Mr Van Dijk comes to the conclusion that payments are now regular?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u50	I think the payment process is in regular order, in control. However, this does not mean that there are no more problems. I also receive emails about problems in my mailbox. That is why I asked if the Social Insurance Bank could deal with this issue a little more proactively. If something doesn't match, if a web doesn't match, sometimes something needs to be converted manually. Well, that might be a real bummer, but it's gotta be better. With Mrs Voortman, I think we should work towards a system that just does what it has to do. It is going better, as is also recognised by the trade associations, but it is not going well enough yet. We really need to make the system simpler and simpler.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u51	I hear Mr Van Dijk saying that the payment regime operates on a regular basis. However, he does not make it clear what he bases it on. During the round table, Mr Van Dijk was very explicit in asking all those present what they thought about it and whether they could underline it. Everyone said: no, it is not on a regular basis on order; it does not work; there are far too many problems. Mr Van Dijk admits that, but at the same time he says that the payout process is on a regular basis. What does he mean by "on a regular basis on order"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u52	Each month, about 250,000 declarations go out the door. Many aid workers are paid and paid on time. But are we there yet? No, we're not here yet. The system really needs to be made simpler and simpler. I would like to focus on that. We can have a debate over the last few months or year, but as far as I am concerned, we are having the debate about the future. How do we make a drawing right system that helps the people and that is serviceable to the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr Van Dijk keeps talking about the future; he does not want to talk about what has happened so far. It seems very complicated to me to look forward only when there are still a lot of problems. We are now five months advanced in 2015. On the basis of all the documentation that the Chamber has finally received after a great deal of pressure, we have found that we were not sufficiently aware of many things, so that it was very difficult for us to assess how things were going. Then it's hard to just look ahead. We will first have to look at what has gone wrong and how it can be that we simply cannot say whether a motion has been carried out or not at the moment. Mr Van Dijk does not think so, because he follows the letter of the Secretary of State. Doesn't he think it's important to look back and find out what went wrong, to prevent more of these things from going wrong in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u54	Certainly, I very much agree with Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u55	I would very much like to know from the Labour Party what it means by "the regular payment process." That process would go well according to the Labour Party, but we still have the rapid response team and there are still 27,000 of our own approved agreements that need to be checked. Every day in my mailbox there are probably also reports in Mr Van Dijk's mailbox that people have not been paid or have not been paid enough. How can Mr Van Dijk say with dry eyes that the regular payment process is in order? I can't rhyme with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u56	Every month, 250,000 payments go out. A lot of aid workers get paid on time. However, there are declarations and dossiers where this is difficult and difficult, because they are simply not yet in order. That is what we need to do and we need to resolve it, especially by looking at how we can make a number of hoops too many and they are too complicated to make them simpler. That's where the solution lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u57	The PvdA Group is taking a flight forward. She says that the problems need to be solved and that we need a robust system. I fully agree with that, because that is what I said in my own contribution. However, I see that there are still people in the system who have disappeared in a black box on which we have no vision whatsoever, who are simply not paid or not paid enough. Mr Van Dijk cannot insist that the regular payment system is in order. Something just doesn't work, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u58	It may be that files and declarations do not match because the web is not properly filled in or because rates are not correct. The payment process is then in principle ready, but there are still some actions to make everything correct. I very much agree with Mrs Fat that we are not yet here. Payments can be made if everything is correct, or if everything is not yet correct, but can be made correctly. In that case, payments will be made. However, there are still too many hickups in the system. They need to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u59	The sad conclusion after the hearing and the conversation with the Social Insurance Agency Audit Service was that what we want to know is how many people are not doing well and what happens then? is not studied. That was outside the remit of the Social Insurance Bank. That is the sad conclusion. This means that we cannot answer the question of whether the route is on schedule or whether it is paid within ten days. We just don't know. That's very sad. The fact that we do get these figures from the Secretary of State, as it were, is, of course, also very bad. Let me look at the reconstruction made by the General Court of Auditors: what has happened since the decision that a drawing right came up until now? I see then that in November and December last year there was almost weekly contact between all the main players, including the Secretary of State, and that there was deep panic and doubt as to whether everything was going well. In January the chaos was complete and all kinds of measures were taken to try to make these payments work. What does the Labour Party think of us hearing from the Secretary of State on 20 January: there were a few problems, the accessibility of the Social Insurance Bank was equally poor, but on 27 January everyone is paid out? What does the PvdA Group think of the fact that the Secretary of State was so rosy at the time and not simply acknowledged that we have a huge problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u60	I very much agree with Mrs Leijten: we have a huge problem. The Secretary of State also apologized. So did the Social Insurance Bank. What can you do best for all those budget holders and their aid workers? That's showing that you're really working hard day and night to solve those problems again. At the beginning of January, that big problem arises. If you look at where we stand now, you can't deny that a huge leap has been made. Thank God, I'd almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u61	It'd be a gotsp if there wasn't a jump ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u63	But I'm going back to our information position. Doesn't the Secretary of State damage his office by the way he informs us and thereby budget holders and caregivers? In his office, it is simply the rule that he actively provides full information to the Chamber. For example, the Secretary of State must do so, as I say to Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party, in order to prevent himself from making a major mistake. I would like to know how the Labour Party weighs it. Doesn't the Secretary of State damage the confidence in politics by holding back things, otherwise expressing soothing words?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u64	A Secretary of State or a Minister should always inform the Chamber fully and correctly. That is a basic rule that we are dealing with. The Secretary of State has told us what he found, what he was going to do about it and what he has done about it so far. I think that is what we are best served by: just tackling problems. A member of the board has also been appointed for this purpose: signaling, tackling and resolving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u65	That is precisely where the Court of Auditors concludes that this did not happen properly. The signals that were there weren't recognized in time. In the second half of 2014 and in the last six months, we have had a lot of debates, and we have always asked whether it was all in order. The Secretary of State indicated: I am not getting any signals that there will be a problem as of 1 January 2015. And after 1 January 2015, he said: the problems will be solved within a few weeks, you don't worry. Then how can you conclude that it all went well? Isn't there an overly rosy presentation of things?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u66	I think everyone wants the problems solved when you see them. That certainly applies to this Secretary of State. Hence the design of emergency scenarios and their entry into force under the assumption that they would lead to the payout process in January. That did not turn out to be the case. In the end, all these actions and all those warnings that have been followed up could not prevent a real huge problem from arising on 1 January. That's just as clear as shit. Of course, that was terrible for all those budget holders and aid workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u67	That is certainly terrible, especially since there were so many concerns and the Secretary of State indicated that those signals were not known to him. If you don't clearly tell the Chamber that those signals are there and that something has to happen, then you're giving too bright a picture of things. I would like to hear a clear yes or no from Mr Van Dijk. Does he think the Secretary of State is too rosy, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u68	No, I don't. All parties involved in the introduction of the right of draw, including the Social Insurance Bank and all chain partners, were convinced that a number of additional measures and emergency scenarios would be possible in time. In the end, we have seen that this has not been able to prevent problems. That is very bad and solutions need to be worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u69	I find it truly astonishing that Mr Van Dijk says to Mrs Dijkstra that payments are in regular order. We just wouldn't be there yet and there should be a few more hoops. This is the problem with which the Secretary of State is in trouble: beautiful talk, beauty and lying. Because things aren't in order. Everyone, including Mr Van Dijk, knows that there is no regular system at all. Everyone knows that there is a string system at the Social Insurance Bank and that it is paid out manually to keep things running a bit. Everyone knows that there is not yet a beginning of a regular operating system, that it does not yet exist and that it still needs to be designed and made. Even the Court of Auditors, which is not the least thing to say, says that it is looking at whether it will ever be okay at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u70	Declarations are coming in and they're being paid. With that, there is a payment system that does what it has to do. Declarations are coming in, which lead to payout. Is that system ready? No. Is it working optimally yet? No. Should there be a better ICT system or a better process in order to gain more insight? Sure. That is all part of the plan and I expect the Secretary of State to make improvements to it. I asked the Secretary of State to do the same. However, declarations are coming in and payments are being made. It's running. But it has to be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u71	"Declarations are coming in and payments are being made" is something completely different from a regular operating system. There's no such thing. How can the Labour Party continue to support its own Secretary of State who does beautiful talk and beauty? You'll do the same yourself. You know damn well that there is no system, that that still has to be made and that until then it is a manual, wood-rope thing to save a bit of what can be saved. You've got to be honest with all those duped! I find it really appalling that we still have to conclude in the sixth debate that the Labour Party is simply lying about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u72	I'm really making... I'm not gonna respond to it. There's a payment system. Payings are being made. It's a lot better than it was a few months ago. But are we there? No. There needs to be a simpler and more customer-oriented drawing right system. We have to work together on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u73	If Mr. Otwin van Dijk hears himself talking now, what does he think? "There's a system, there's declarations being paid out, but it's still a long way from good." Does he still support his statement that it's in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u74	The payment process is in order. Are we there yet? No, we're not. It needs to be better and it needs to be simpler and more customer-oriented. All these proposals have been passed, including Per Balance and Each one. I think we should look at that and make it better and fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u75	If you're gonna figure out how to fix it, you're gonna ignore where you are right now. It is now five months after the introduction of the right to draw. I myself tabled a motion on 17 December in which I asked the Secretary of State to ensure that the right to draw would work out, because we heard that the SVB could not handle it at all. At that time, the Secretary of State said that this motion was policy support and that it was actually superfluous. He talked to the SVB every day, so that would be really good, and he was glad that the Chamber helped him. That's characteristic. In the media, the Labour Party continues to say that this Secretary of State must solve the problem and that we must stop talking about what has happened. There's a problem and he's gonna have to deal with it. He has unconditional support for them. I would therefore like an answer from the Labour Party to the following question: is the Labour Party going to look back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u76	You always have to earn support. If you look at where we come from and how to solve the problem, this Secretary of State has shown that he has made a huge leap forward. Is it wise to look back? Sure. In the first pgb debate, motions were tabled asking the government to draw lessons from it. Because all good intentions have not prevented us from finding a huge problem on 1 January of this year. Of course, we have to look back on that and learn lessons from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u77	I hear Van Dijk saying literally here: the payment system is in order. That beautiful talk, it goes on and on. The system's out of order. Even a 96% system is as leaky as a basket. This has the level of a banana republic, if every time ten thousand other caregivers do not get their income from the government. That system should be 100% waterproof. The Secretary of State said in the newspaper this week, we're not gonna save 100%. Does Mr Van Dijk consider that acceptable or unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u78	Of course, we always strive for 100%. But it may be that declarations aren't right or can't be right. You'll never reach 100%. But with Mrs Agema, I think this Secretary of State should never settle for 95%. The system must be improved not only to make it easier, but also to get very close to that 100%. If something cannot be paid, the budget holder must be told that it cannot or he must be helped to make it throbbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr Van Dijk just said that the payment system is in order. Those were the words of Mr Van Dijk. Nice talk. If that's the Labour Party standard, banana republic level, can't you do that? The Labour Party must say to the Secretary of State: we do not accept this. Then Mr Van Dijk says: we are heading towards 100%, but 100% is not possible. That is what the Labour Party must demand, because it is about so many people. All these government systems have to work 100%. Because you're responsible. We cannot accept 98%, 99% or even 99.9%. They are hardworking Dutch, those of the VVD, who do not get their income from the government. The payment system is not in order, Mr Van Dijk, you really need to stop talking nicely. It's just lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u80	I have already responded to that, so I will continue with my speech. The Court presented the results of an inquiry into the introduction of the right of draw. A rightly critical report. I see in the progress report of the SVB and the Secretary of State's timeline that warnings and recommendations have been followed by actions. But, in retrospect, it appears that these actions could not prevent the disbursements from not going well. How can we do better in the future? How can we ensure that the accessibility of the organisations concerned is in order during such a journey, so that budget holders are not unnecessarily insecure? The start of the draw right did not go well. But the hard work of all those involved has led to a huge leap forward. Now we must continue to make the right of draw simpler and more customer-friendly, so that there is a system that does what it has to do: enable people to direct their own care and their own lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u81	Mr. Chairman. I have supported proposals for improvements to the pgbs in recent years. It goes with liberal politics, which is about a free living world of people and about the value of the system of pgbs, to direct people's concerns, but via a fraud-proof system. That is why the Chamber has supported a new declaration and payment system. But that new payout system has to work. I fully support that, because people, aid workers, must be able to trust that they are paid out. We now know that the complexity is great. Secretary of State Van Rijn never denied the problems and even apologized. Of course, he has indicated several times that he is working on it, in the confidence that the problem would be solved. An opposite message would be very unbelievable. That is why I have not supported previous motions of censure. Large declaration systems in a bureaucratic system are unwieldy. In addition, we are dealing here with the implementation problem of the SVB, which is in substance covered by two ministries and two State Secretarys. The comparison with the situation around former Secretary of State, Mr Weekers, does not go far enough in my view. Can the Secretary of State indicate what the responsibilities are now? Can Secretary of State Klijnsma indicate that the pgb implementation problem is not at the expense of other tasks of the SVB, such as child benefit and payment of AOW and Anw, and how the damaged confidence in SVB can be restored? A lot of questions have been asked about the pgb issue and how this system can be improved. I'd like to wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. I have spoken to many pgb holders lately, and I am well aware of the scale of the problems they face. That is why I express my deep appreciation for all those aid workers who, despite all the problems, have continued to care for their clients. The VVD has said from the start of the problems with the payment of the pgbs that the commitment of all parties involved should be aimed at resolving those payment problems as quickly as possible. From the letter in which the State Secretary of Health informed us about the state of play on 15 May, we have concluded that the regular payment process is becoming increasingly flexible. In 95% of the cases, according to the State Secretary for Health, payments are made within the specified time limits and the monthly wages are paid on time. However, that does not mean that we are already here. There are still people who run into problems in paying out the pgbs. I, too, am getting signals about that. This means that the commitment of the parties concerned must not be weakened. People who are still facing problems or who are stuck with questions must also be helped as quickly and as effectively as possible. During last week's briefing by the Social Insurance Bank, many questions were asked about the working stock and the payable claims. I understand that all budget holders are well represented at the Social Insurance Bank and that everything is being done to get the unpaid declarations in order and to pay them out as soon as possible. Can the Secretary of State for Health explain this? Can he indicate whether declarations that contain errors are actively arrested by the Social Insurance Bank to ensure that these people are helped as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible? The Secretary of State has also promised to come forward with an improvement plan for the summer, in addition to the recovery plan. Can the Secretary of State explain how far he is with the improvement plan and indicate when he can present this plan to the Chamber? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs whether she believes that the Social Insurance Bank has adequately acted on the risks that have emerged prior to the introduction of the drawing right? The Court states in its investigation that on 9 December 2014 the Social Insurance Bank reported that the introduction date of 1 January is being met, with a small overflow in the first two weeks of January. On 22 December 2014, the SVB then indicates that it is no longer feasible to process the healthcare agreements in good time. Does the Secretary of State consider that the SVB has called in on that point in time? Finally. As far as the VVD is concerned, all energy must be aimed at helping people who have not been helped for any reason, as soon as possible. In the near future, it may be useful and necessary to make the system simpler than it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u83	I think there are a few questions. Mrs Keijzer, you told me that you had used your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u84	I only used the first part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u85	One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u86	I didn't see that the other spokesmen had all come to the microphone. It must have been a nice picture. I have one question for Mr Potters. He thinks it's all right and ends by asking a number of questions about the Social Insurance Bank. Several times, in all the debates we have had, the Secretary of State has said that he is responsible and accountable for what is now going wrong. Doesn't the VVD believe the Secretary of State on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u87	Let me be clear: the Secretary of State of VWS is responsible for the pgb file. But I also have a question about last week's hearing. We have heard the Social Insurance scared say that he has a "can do" mentality: if we get an assignment then we would like to solve it as well and as quickly as possible. If there's any problems in the preliminary trajectory, we'll pick it up and run it. My question is just how this picture is now in the light of the letter of early December and the problems which arose in January. I would like to hear further explanations from both Secretary of State, including the Secretary of State responsible for the owner's part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u88	I have a question about the report of the General Court of Auditors. The ministries actually do rather little with the conclusions and recommendations of the General Court. The transfer of data did not go well, according to the Court of Auditors. Sure, says the U.S. Department. Signals weren't picked up properly. Sure, says the U.S. Department. The execution key is said to have been executed, because we have created a roadmap. The Court of Auditors says that it is not a good test of implementation. On all these points, therefore, valuable opinions from the General Court are simply ignored. If you do, how can you work on solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u89	I don't share that image entirely with you. I do think we really need to learn from this process. This has been a complex process with many chain partners and unfortunately many dependencies. Mr Van der Staaij said that you have to jump through a lot of hoops and that the system on parts is sometimes a bit vulnerable. We must draw lessons from this and I believe that we should do so, not only for now but also for future processes. I fully support that. Mrs Voortman says that the execution test has not been carried out properly, because the requirements have not been met. I give her that "roadmap" and "execution key" are largely the same. Except for a small part, they do not deviate from each other; they contain almost the same elements. It's okay to say that. When it was introduced, there was an explicit consideration as to whether we could do this in a good way. Yes, there have been problems with the execution. We've all seen that, and we shouldn't run away from that either. However, I do think that nuance is appropriate. However, I agree with Mrs Voortman that we will definitely have to learn from this and take the recommendations of the Court of Auditors to heart. I think the Secretary of State said the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u90	The reactions of the Cabinet to the conclusions and recommendations of the General Court show that they are not all taken on board. I have just mentioned the examples. I have another question. In the previous debate, Mr Potters spoke six times: 'carefully'. He felt that the whole process went very carefully. Now I haven't heard him say that word at all. Does that mean that he looks a little differently from the words he used then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u91	I'll come back to the first question. If you read the letter correctly, I think that the Court's recommendations are taken very seriously, but that occasional comments are made. That's okay, too. I believe that the cabinet can give its own appreciation, but I can see from the letter that the cabinet really wants to draw the necessary lessons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mrs. Dijkstra,... Excuse me, Mr Potters, you weren't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u93	Madam President, I would also like to answer the second question neatly. Last time we looked back on the responsibility of the Secretary of State: did he take all the steps carefully? He has taken the steps carefully in the sense that he has passed the list neatly, that he has followed the road map neatly and that he has informed us well about it, including the problems that have arisen. The Court looked at the whole process: the introduction, implementation and the problems that arose later. He is of the opinion that this was not careful. My question from the last time, in the debate we were looking back until 1 January 2015, was whether the Secretary of State did this carefully to us. That's what the discussion was about at the time. I said yes to that then, and I still do. In the whole process, including the execution, things didn't go well. There is a qualification of the Court of Auditors on this, but that is a qualification given by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u94	We are standing here for the umpteenth time to debate the right to draw. The Labour Party has said, and the VVD agrees: great steps have been taken, it is moving in the right direction. When has the VVD reached the point that we have to say: this whole process is not going well and it is going to take a very long time, so we have to take action?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u95	At the heart of the debate is, I think, the motion tabled by Mrs Dijkstra. We all want the regular process to be in order. We have put a number on it: 95% of the affordable declarations. This shows that it is being complied with. However, I do agree with Mrs Dijkstra that there is still 5% where people are really waiting for a quick handling. I also agree with Mrs Dijkstra that it is necessary to clarify the not-affordable declarations. I think that is the question that needs to be answered in this debate. I assume, as the Secretary of State also wrote to us in his last letter, that the regular trial is in order. I have also seen, like all of us, that great progress has been made in recent weeks. The rapid response team has really taken on business well. In my case, too, the question has become much less. That is what we wanted to see: see that the process gets right. I see the trial is now in order. I do have a few more questions. I put it to the Secretary of State, and I want it answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u96	As I said at the beginning of my speech, we are having this debate today, but the coalition parties have already indicated where they stand politically. I didn't get any response to that. That's striking, of course. From the VVD, which knows so precisely that the Secretary of State has fully informed us and ignores the fact that we have often had a very rosy picture of the course of events, I want to know how she estimates this debate. Then what exactly are we doing here? Actually, the VVD says: everything that is going on is fine. The question is: do we have to stand here every few weeks to look at progress again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u97	I didn't say that everything that's happening now is going well. There are certainly still problems with implementation. I specifically asked for this. I also said that this should be done. That was also the reason for the previous debate. But I think we all want the pgb-holders and the caregivers to be helped quickly and well. That is the approach of this debate with regard to the VVD. We would like to take steps forward. We have seen that steps have been taken forward. We still have a few questions. We'd like an answer to that. But our approach is to start this debate with a clear picture of what is happening now and to look ahead and ensure that it is resolved quickly. It is time for things to be handled properly. That is the thrust of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u98	I don't get it anymore. I hear the VVD expressing the same concerns as the Christian Union: 95% are paid on time but 5% are not, it is the affordable declarations but where are the non-affordable declarations? Nevertheless, the conclusion of the VVD is that the regular payment process is in order. You can't do that, can you? That cannot be the conclusion when the VVD Group says: I want an answer to those other two questions, too, and that has to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u99	I think we can do that. Last week, during the hearing, we heard clearly from the Social Insurance Bank that the unpaid declarations are in the working stock, that they have eyes on them and that they could handle the work stock within three days. For me that is reason to assume that one is in control as far as the process is concerned. That's unrelated to the fact that there are real problems. We can see that, too. For us, the question is, and we would like to see it confirmed: is what the Social Insurance Bank said last week, namely that what is not yet affordable, is simply in the system of the Social Insurance Bank, which is in sight of this and that it can now be dealt with quickly? Then I think we have a complete picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u100	If what the Social Insurance Bank said last week were true, namely that the unpaid declarations are somewhere in the system and could be paid within three working days, they would have been paid by now. In fact, enough days have passed and it has not happened. It's really a black box. We don't know where those people are in the system. Does the VVD Group share the view of the Christian Union that we really need to work like a spear to get those people out of the system and make sure those payments are made? Because it's not happening. Does the VVD also share the Christian Union's view that the system is simply not yet in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u101	I share the conclusion of the Christian Union Group that we need to act quickly on the unpaid declarations that are in the working stock. However, I also heard the Social Insurance Bank say something else last week: yes, when it comes to size, we could, in principle, deal with this within three days, because it is about 18,000 declarations and we can handle about 7,000 a day. However, there are very specific cases. There are people in there who have multiple pgb budgets. It's got problems like care agreements that haven't come in yet. So it can take longer for the very complicated cases. Every day is too long for me, but I get it. What matters to me now is: is it true what the Social Insurance Bank said last week and is there a view on all these claims? If the answer is yes and the Dijkstra motion is also met, I believe that what we have asked of the Secretary of State has been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u102	Unfortunately, we cannot ask the Sociale Verzekeringsbank: just provide the folder with lost pieces. That's not how it works. Looking in the system for things that aren't really in the system is very difficult. That is why it is very important for us, as representatives of the people, to indicate ourselves what problems we face and what we hear from the people. Does the VVD Group now have an idea of the situations in which it is still failing, despite all the improvements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u103	Like everyone else, we receive emails from people who are budget holders or health care providers. In the first few months the complaint was "I'm not paid" or "I'm not paid in time." Now we hear "we're not quite in the system yet," "we're not in the right law yet" or "it takes longer than we've foreseen." There are conversations with the Social Insurance Bank right now to solve that. This means that the process, the system, is not yet fully in order. That is true, but our objective was to ensure that everyone was paid as quickly and as well as possible, and that is what we are in this debate. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State has satisfied this, but that does not mean that the whole system is complete and in order. No, there's still a lot to do. People will still have to be hung in the right law. A number of things may also need to be put in order administratively. That must be done in the coming months, but it is now about paying our budget holders and caregivers. That's gotta be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u104	Does the VVD Group also believe that the commitments regarding the further organisation of My PCI, which we are still hearing concerns about, and the commitments regarding the simple and rapid modification of data, will be further implemented as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u105	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I have also finished my speech by saying that it may have to be a little simpler in the future. This also gives Per Balance to us: make sure that the system, after it has been made robust and can pay out, becomes really easier. All these hoops, as Mr van der Staaij rightly points out, can very quickly lead to an error in the system, which means that someone is not paid out. That should be the next step. I believe that this is also the improvement plan that the Secretary of State is about to put in place. But we must now ensure that payments are made properly, so that there are no mistakes. Then we can take the next step in the improvement. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. Improving My PCI would be a very big step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u106	I was just thinking that there might not be any mails coming into the VVD about the fact that it is going wrong, while we still get emails about very poignant cases. My sincere question is: what does the VVD group answer these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u107	We give the answer that Mr Krol should also give. I think he does, too. If there is no payment, the rapid response team will contact the person concerned and the healthcare provider as soon as possible. My experience is that after that we also get a lot of satisfied e-mails when we do. It is said that it has been resolved; we have been paid. That doesn't mean that all the problems are over. That's what they say, because sometimes they're not good at the regular process. It has to be. It has to be sorted out. I see the emergency scenario is working. I think that's what we should do. We must act and ensure that this is resolved as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u108	Will the VVD not receive e-mails from people with whom things are not going well and then again, so that the issue is still not resolved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u109	We get these e-mails, of course, but then our answer is that it has to get in the system as well as possible. That's what they're acting on. Of course we see and hear that there are problems in the implementation. I have already pointed out a few times that this really needs to be put right, but I think we should also be honest about what the Secretary of State has promised the Chamber. As far as I can see now, I do have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u110	I fully agree that we need to be honest. That brings me to my next question. We are now holding the sixth debate on what goes wrong with the payments. In the second debate, the VVD representative told me to stop whining, because the train ran and 99% of the payouts went well, as he had heard from the Secretary of State. It turns out that's not true. What does the VVD think of her having to use figures that we now know were really wrong in the second debate we held?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u111	I think we should always look very critically at the information we get. I think the technical briefing of the SVB and the audit committee last week was very clear. We've asked if 95% of the affordable declarations are in order. There are also the correct and incorrect declarations within these affordable declarations. There is not such a big difference between the lead time; that was said last week. Is this sample reliable and independent? In my opinion, the audit committee has shown very convincingly that it is a good, reliable sample and that we can rely on that information. Then I think I should do the same. I therefore assume that the information we have had is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u112	The information we've had now has to be accurate. In the conversation with the SVB and the Audit Service, I found it disgusting to note that we do not know what happens if declarations are not paid out, because they are not in the sample. We don't know how big they are or what happens to them. That was unheard of. My question, however, was another one. So far, the VVD has always defended the Secretary of State with soul and salvation and has used figures that the Secretary of State gave the VVD. But it turns out those numbers aren't right. Does the VVD not think that the Secretary of State has thereby shamed his duty and duty to actively and fully inform the Chamber and that it also damages confidence in politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u113	We can do the debate again last time, but I don't have to. We then concluded that we were well informed by the Secretary of State. I am not going to repeat the debate and say that I do not think it is retroactive, because I stand for the words I chose then and I still choose now. I just want to make one thing right. Mrs Leijten starts with an introduction and asks another question. I think the Social Insurance Bank made it clear last time that the unpaid declarations are in his working stock. That means they're in the system and the SVB is going to solve that from the work stock. I would indeed like to confirm that. Mrs Leijten is now explaining that this is not the case and that it is a big black box. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what the Social Insurance Bank said on that point and whether that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u114	I really want to respond to that. I literally asked: do you know what happens to the unpaid claims? The SVB Audit Service said: no, because we did not investigate this. In other words, we don't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u115	Now Mrs Leijten refers to the Audit Service. I'm talking about what the Social Insurance Bank said. The board of the Social Insurance Bank said that we do have those declarations in view and they are in our working stock. I think it's good to put that image here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u116	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the chaos that has arisen with the personal budgets, the pgbs. The operation to manage the pgbs from now on at the Social Insurance Bank, the SVB, has resulted in a total failure. We have all heard the poignant stories of budget holders who are no longer able to declare their accounts. Everyone knows the anecdotes of receipts that, once returned, are not reimbursed and sometimes can't even be found. Caregivers also sighed under the persistent malaise, because their invoices have not been paid for months. This is a huge drama for all the victims. If the pgb fiasco illustrates one thing, it is the inability of the government to make complex system changes using ICT. Think of the police, the Ministry of Defence and of course the previous problems at the Tax Office. The combination of government and ICT is more than unlucky: the government as a supreme dignitary! This cabinet doesn't seem to be learning either, because now there are 120,000 budget holders in the cold. That's why I have the following questions. Can the Secretary of State state state whether the software problems are finally history? Can he clarify the extent to which the current software takes care of the handling of errors? For example, what is the protocol if the data entered are incorrect or incomplete? Does the SVB react on its own or is it shifted to the budget holder? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the adapted system will keep fraud to a minimum? And last but not least: what is the stated purpose of the Secretary of State? How and when are things gonna get back together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-04-tweedekamer-4.u117	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Secretary of State needs some time to prepare the answers. Besides, we're gonna have to have lunch. So I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
