ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr Van Laar asked his question following the work visit of a delegation of members of the First and Second Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. A new tax office and a big refurbishing for the prison: these were the first two achievements of the government, after Bonaire became part of the Netherlands in 2010. It wasn't performance that was at the top of the Bonairians' wish list. In fact, although it was necessary, almost no one was waiting for it. Hundreds of Bonairians live in houses that would be declared uninhabitable in the Netherlands. Bad roads lead to a lot of wear and tear on cars and accidents, too often with fatal consequences. Poverty seems to have become worse since 2010, partly because of the transition to the dollar and the new tax system. Children grow up under unacceptable conditions. These problems come at the top when you ask Bonairians what really needs to be tackled. Since 2010, care in Bonaire has improved considerably. Primary education is also improving. That's good, and we should celebrate. Yet the discontent on Bonaire is increasing. The homes, roads, poverty and children's rights are crying out for a quick and effective approach. Multi-annual plans are now being drawn up and we expect them to be ambitious and to provide rapid relief. When will these plans be ready and when can we expect the first results? I ask the Minister to focus on progress on the issues that really matter to Bonaire and to ask the officials to do the same. On our way to the airport we saw a new fire station under construction. Moreover, the refurbished prison is being demolished because another one is under construction. That's how we build a lot of expensive buildings, without making any real progress. I also heard about the plans for a new headquarters for the state service. That would be a new stone of offense, right in the center of Kralendijk. It will only feed the discontent. Will the Minister stop building government buildings in the coming years, and put his time and energy into progress for people? This progress can be achieved by building better houses and good roads, effectively tackling poverty and improving the future for Bonaire's children. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Through you and Mr Van Laar, I would like to thank the entire parliamentary delegation that visited the Caribbean. I note that Mr Van Laar has specifically highlighted Bonaire's subject. This, I think, gives the priority set by the delegation. I understand Mr Van Laar's point and I share his concerns. If the first thing that happens after the new state relations is the construction of a prison, I can very well imagine that people are wondering what to do with it and what to do with it. I would point out, moreover, that the prison was very old and that it was also necessary for human rights to do something about it, but neither does Mr Van Laar. It was necessary because, unfortunately, crime has increased and continues to increase. In the fields of education and care, there are clear improvements, including for the people of Bonaire himself. The problems in infrastructure have not been solved overnight. All over the island, the roads are full of bumps. Something has to happen in many places. Social Affairs is currently investigating poverty. Mr Van Laar said it very accurately: poverty seems to have increased. Whether it's really true is just the question. Because care has been made accessible to low-income people, there are also positive income effects. Anyway, it's being investigated by the person responsible for social affairs. We don't make the choices that lie ahead here. In part, they are made by local directors on the island council. In fact, we make it in the multiannual plan that is being developed in the CN week. Last year we had one of those weeks in which the concept was discussed. This concept will be adopted in June this year, in good consultation with the democratically elected leaders of the islands. In this concept, the three priorities were clearly at the forefront: children's rights, economic development and poverty. Once the draft has been adopted, it will be sent to the Chamber. Mr Van Laar's point about government buildings will be taken with me as a building block for the multiannual plan. The RCN itself is decently housed. In the past, plans have been developed by local leaders to house all the authorities of this island with 17,000 inhabitants in one building. Except for a reconnaissance, there are no further plans for that. However, I would like to highlight the signal that it is necessary to ensure that it is better for the people there. I'll put that on the table there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	I thank the Minister for his answers. However, it is important to keep a close eye on this. Perhaps the Minister can send us a letter containing the plans for the real estate. For example, we saw an abandoned police station for which there is no new destination. That contributes to the image of depravity. New buildings are being built, but often not in the neighbourhoods where people live. Bonaire is also often seen as a foreign country. When you move from the Netherlands to Bonaire, the official often says: oh, you're moving abroad. It takes a lot of effort to convince the official that Bonaire is part of the Netherlands. The same applies to pension funds and the Tax Administration. That doesn't mean that the Bonairians have the idea that they really belong to the Netherlands and that they are part of the country The Netherlands. I would like to ask the Minister to be active on that, and certainly the government organisations, but also the organisations outside, to call on Bonaire to be part of the Netherlands, that Bonaire should be included and that Bonairians should be treated in the same way as all the other Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	May I first of all suggest that the letter on the buildings should be included in the report on the multiannual plan so that we can look at this in this context? I'll inform the Chamber about that then. Again, the suggestion I have given has been in my ears in any case. As for the feeling that Bonaire is abroad, I will point out to the services that give this impression that this is not the intention. This applies specifically to the population administration. Mr Van Laar spoke about the official, in particular the person making the registration. At 10-10-10, the local population administration has been chosen for the time being. The intention is to eventually register the people on Bonaire in the Basic Registration Persons. By the time this is realized, the distinction will disappear and they will simply be part of the Dutch population administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	But it is still not abroad, even though the administrations are separate and even though the tax systems are separate and different. Still, it's not foreign. However, you have to choose the category "foreign" each time to get to Bonaire. That's what makes people weird, and that also makes the distance bigger. Perhaps the minister can try to get that different, so that people can choose "in the Netherlands, but in Bonaire," and he can inform the Chamber about the progress, so that Bonaire really becomes part of the country Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is quite right that Bonaire is not a foreign country. Mr Van Laar talks about examples of public authorities and other bodies suggesting that Bonaire is abroad. I will certainly appeal to those authorities and correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	I too was part of the delegation that went to Bonaire, among other things. We're freaked out. We were shocked by the discontent on the island. There is a kind of Occupy movement going on with daily demonstrations and very loud slogans towards the Netherlands. It is sad to see that we have arrived at this point four years after 10-10-10. People are disappointed, there are bad roads and more than half of the population lives below the poverty line. So there are major concerns. If things are said to be done, we should at least strive for an equivalent level with the Netherlands. Roads must be built at the same level as in the Netherlands. Provisions must operate at the same level. Four years after 10-10-10, this is not the case. So if everything is happening, we must at least find out that this is not enough. Would the Minister like to get on top of that? Does he also want to talk directly with the protesters, the island government and the island council about the concerns that live there and that are growing, so that we can prevent a possible popular uprising and an outburst of this discontent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	I see that discontent, too. I believe that this is largely due to false expectations. It has indeed been thought that if one chooses to become a part of the Netherlands, everything becomes exactly as in the Netherlands. That shouldn't have happened. I don't want to make that mistake here. We have much to improve. The poverty that exists in Bonaire is unacceptable. A lot has to be done for that. The economy should move better, but good social policy must also be pursued. I do not want to give rise to the expectation that all facilities will be at the same level. It's never been promised. The AOV on Bonaire is different from the AOW here, because the living standards differ. I do not wish to suggest in Question Time that this can be changed at once. Once again, that said, I fully agree with Mr Segers that there is still a lot to be done at Bonaire and, by the way, in the rest of the Caribbean Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
