ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	Good morning. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 4 March, we had a general discussion on the Health Insurance Act and the functioning of the healthcare system. We also talked about the fact that the healthcare system slowly but surely comes to a standstill, squeaking and squatting, especially when you look at the administrative burden and the interference of health insurance companies with, among others, general practitioners. I would like to make a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that general practitioners suffer heavily from bureaucracy and interference by health insurers;]] [[considers that health insurers should not sit in the chair of general practitioners;]] [[noting that due to the market functioning of the Health Insurance Act, general practitioners are unable to cooperate optimally;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that market forces do not apply to general practitioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-601]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	I talked to the Minister about the budget policy. That's a policy where you don't get compensation if you go to a health care institution that hasn't got a contract from the health insurance company. I find this policy undesirable, but I know that there is currently no majority in favour of a ban. I do think we should know how people actually get that budget policy. I've heard too many people who didn't know. In their case, a collectivity is simply converted from a natural policy into a budget policy. I've requested an investigation into that. The Minister doesn't want to do that. That's what my next motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mrs Leijten is right to ask for this. Last Friday we had a round table. The budget policy has been discussed in detail. Some thought he was undesirable, too. The Round Table also showed that no rules at all can be imposed on insurers in the context of competition on the type of policies they offer. I wondered whether Mrs Leijten took this into account when drafting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	Oh, yeah. I still have to read the motion. I would prefer that we ban it. If that is not legally possible, we must make it possible. I would now like to put forward a motion to clarify the grounds on which people have entered into a budget policy. Like I said, I've talked to several people who face high bills when they didn't know they had a budget policy. You've been in a collection for years with a health insurance company where you're satisfied. Then suddenly it turns out that the character of your policy has changed. I've asked the Minister to map out how many people that happened. She doesn't want to do that. The request for such an investigation has been included in a motion for a resolution. By the way, during the round table and in the documents we have been sent, I have seen that the health insurance companies are scratching behind the ears about this budget policy and that they have already said that they will arrange for the future that people know what they are saying yes to. It's 600,000 who have a budget policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	My party is also very much in favour of transparency. Perhaps I have been a little premature, but I responded to Mrs Leijten's introductory remarks. I thought: now there will be a motion asking for a ban on the budget policy. It is good to hear that Mrs Leijten does not ask that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	I suggest you read the motion now, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	I would have asked the Minister to amend the law so that it could. Again, I'm not going to table that motion, but the next one is. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are people who have a budget policy with all its limitations without their knowledge;]] [[noting that collections have moved from a natural policy to a budget policy;]] [[believes that people should know how they are insured and what the consequences and risks are when a policy changes;]] [[calls on the government to map out how the 600,000 people with a budget policy have closed down,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-602]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	I would like to make the following point. If you change health insurance and consciously opt for the risks of another policy, that's a very different situation than when your collectivity automatically goes through and you think it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you. Mrs Voortman, who had applied as the second speaker, I do not see. I give the floor to Mrs Bouwmeester. I see he doesn't want the word. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'm here and I have a motion, too. In that sense, there was a little confusion, because I looked at Mrs Bouwmeester with the question: are you going to talk? As I said, we held a general consultation on the health system on 4 March. During these consultations, the system was discussed in all its facets. I asked the Minister what she thought of the fact that goodwill is still being demanded from general practitioners. I have prepared a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sometimes goodwill is still sought from general practitioners;]] [[considers that this is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which goodwill is paid in the acquisition of general practitioners' practices and, if so, to take measures to put an end to this right away,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-603]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	Which keeps coming back, and that's also evident from the motions,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	I have one more question about the previous motion. Mrs Dijkstra is right to make a point. Formally, goodwill must not be allowed; everyone agrees on that. However, you will hear that it is said: I do not want goodwill, you like my practice and that desk chair costs four tons. So in devious ways, that goodwill is still being asked. Is that also the intention of the motion, because otherwise the answer will be: it is not allowed and it does not happen, whereas I think it is mainly about those devious ways?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you, Mrs Bouwmeester, for that addition, because that is of course the point. The goodwill has long been abolished, but it appears to be present. I do not want this to continue and that there are these practices. That is why I ask the Minister to examine how many times it still exists and to take the necessary measures to prevent it from happening. Mrs Leijten has already said that this type of debate is always about competition, regulated market forces and how the system works. In addition, we are faced with all kinds of things which are sometimes incompatible with each other. The Minister has already promised to investigate how general practitioners can be excluded from competition. We have heard that competition can sometimes hinder the aims of the system and solidarity in other areas too. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister is examining the extent to which general practitioners may be excluded from competition;]] [[believes that system-wide competition can be opposed to matters that we want to regulate, such as good cooperation;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of where competition in the system is at stake,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-604]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	Can Mrs Dijkstra explain even better how this relates to the motion tabled by Mrs Leijten together with Mrs Dik? What are the similarities and what are the differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	I'm not ready to do that, I have to be honest. Perhaps Mrs Leijten could explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	This motion, which was adopted, calls on the government to exempt the first line from the competition rules in parallel with the way farmers and producers are excluded because they can organize too little power against, for example, large purchasers. This is being investigated by the Minister. I believe that this does not bite Mrs Dijkstra's motion, because it calls for a broader look at care. I can imagine that there are several areas in which this is difficult. I don't see anything rubbing here; this adds something at most.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	Indeed, Mrs Dijkstra says that the motions complement each other and do not interfere with each other. That is what I wanted to hear, because by doing so we know that this motion is not an amendment to what Mrs Leijten proposed earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	When the motion is distributed and you can read it, you will see that I consider that the Minister is examining this, indeed at the request of the Chamber, and that I ask the Minister whether there are outside that category other providers for which this could be a cause of good cooperation, which is sometimes necessary rather than competition. We have also, of course, talked about how cooperation can already be achieved in the region. That already exists, but you often hear that providers are uncertain about what can and cannot be done. I would like to know a little more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	I do have a question about that. Does Mrs Dijkstra recognise that competition may be necessary to ensure that price and quality competition continues? That really is the cork on which the system floats. We believe that this has led to higher quality, better price formation and the best system in Europe. Does she want to investigate whether we should distance ourselves more from this, or does she still support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	I agree with that principle, which is why D66 does not want to interfere with the system we now have. However, we are always looking for improvements to the system. I'd like to have a look at where things are wringing. Maybe we won't run into anything, but I'll ask the Minister to take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	A practical question: I still miss a deadline in Mrs Dijkstra's motion. Is the Chamber still informed about this? That's not in the motion right now. When does Mrs Dijkstra want this and does she also want the House of Representatives to be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	This is a good addition. I can always make a change, but I'm still waiting for the Minister's answer. It will indicate whether this is possible and whether it is willing to do so. It will therefore be able to set a deadline. After that, I can change that in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. Healthcare insurers are social service providers. They're spending the bounty money we paid with his alles. They have to do it carefully. If they do, that means that we will eventually have to pay less money for our premium and we will be able to spend as much money as possible on care. Therefore, the CDA is a thorn in the eye that health insurers still hold too many reserves, more than legally required. On the other hand, health insurers must of course be robust, so they must properly meet the legal requirements for reserves, but they must not add any extra money. After all, it's community money. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers are social service providers who have more money on the shelf than is required by law;]] [[Whereas these financial and social resources are not directly devoted to care or reduced contributions;]] [[considers that no unnecessary reserves should be held above the legal requirements for reserves;]] [[calls on the Government to establish that health insurers may hold a certain maximum of reserves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-605]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	The Minister indicated that she had yet to consider this last motion, but she would like to begin her reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. In her first motion, the one in part No. 601, notes Ms Leijten that due to the market forces of the Health Insurance Act, general practitioners cannot cooperate optimally. That observation is still unworkable, since general practitioners have never submitted anything to the Authority Consumer & Market stating that it cannot be done. So this is an assumption. I had a conversation with the general practitioners because we are looking at how we can make sure that the things that need to be and that are in the best interests of the patient actually happen. They indicated that they felt that certain forms of cooperation could not be achieved. I have offered to submit these forms of cooperation to the ACM. If we think something can't be done, but we don't test it, we're stuck in nothing. It is said that anything cannot be done, but the ACM is not aware of this. So I'm meeting with the GPs to get some tests done. In the meantime, at the request of the Court of Justice, an investigation into a similar situation has been initiated. At least, Mrs Leijten said that it is probably a similar situation and she asked me to look at it. That investigation is ongoing. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 601. We will have to make sure that all these assumptions are correct before we draw such conclusions. In the motion in part No. 602 the government is asked to map out how the 600,000 people with a budget policy closed it down. We have agreed in the law that health insurers should explicitly indicate changes to the policy. It can't be that a collectivity policy called "luxury 3" keeps on being called that way, but suddenly it becomes a completely different policy. This cannot be done, because we have regulated in the law that health insurance companies explicitly submit changes to the policy to those who get the policy. This must also be set against each other. We have asked the NZa to investigate the state of the budget policies. Are those "race to the bottom" budget policies in which very little has been contracted? That investigation is ongoing. In the AO I announced that I would develop a package leaflet for the budget policy, explaining what it means. Like Mrs Dijkstra, I am also very much in favour of good transparency. Someone needs to know what he chooses, so let's make this explicit with the policy that offers the least, with a package leaflet. That is why I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	I'm just confused for a second. The PvdA has tabled an amendment to the law which would ensure that health insurers are explicitly required to report differences with last year's policy. So you can see at a glance which hospitals are no longer contracted. Unfortunately, that amendment was not adopted because Article 13 was not adopted in the First Chamber. In my view, it is not in the law and my amendment is still in the air.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	No. If you change the policy content, you need to make it explicitly clear to the person who has the policy. You asked that a few years ago, and that is what I took care of. You need to be able to see explicitly what the difference is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	Then I am confused, because the opinion on the amendment was: above all, do, because it is a nice addition. Now the Minister says it's not a nice addition, because it's already in it. If it's in there, it's in there. Then let's look behind the scenes at what the difference of insight is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	It's in there. If there are any changes in your policy, the insurer should explicitly state what he has changed in your policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	We all know how it is. It's switching time, and you're getting mail from your health care provider. You've been one of them for years, so you think it's done well. Maybe you were already part of the new health care system, so with the old sickness fund. So you're thinking, "That's gonna be good." If you do not respond, when there is indeed a deterioration of your policy, it simply goes in. I'm just asking you to map that out. The NZa is already investigating. Then she can see if she can take this with her. For example, ask all health insurance companies whether collections have moved from a natural policy to a budget policy and whether there is an estimate of how many people have accepted this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	Your question is clear, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	I understand you don't know exactly why or how they switched out of 600,000 people. However, I am concerned about the broad lines. How did this happen? I think it makes sense to include this in the investigation. That is why I ask the Minister to reconsider her advice. If the NZa is still investigating, why can't she take this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	I asked the NZa to do an investigation at the beginning of December. We've been four months. That means it's already in a very different phase. In the initial phase it is easy to add something. There is also another argument, namely that we have legally regulated that insurers should clearly indicate what they are changing in their policy. As a supervisor, the NZa already supervises that. So it's settled as it is now. It may be that people have thrown away that information by post, but that does not mean that legally the insurer has not done what we ask of him in accordance with the law. Then what's the point of checking whether people have read their post or their policy? If they didn't do that and they threw that mail away, you'd be held as a policy holder to read that post.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	Now I don't understand at all. The minister says that the NZa is already investigating this and that it is already looking at whether the policy has been explicitly indicated by health insurance companies how the policy changes. Then this can be taken all the way, right? I am not talking about extra extensive research, but about mapping out this point. Reports have been published in the press about people who had no idea that they had a budget policy and who, for example, received a bill of €15,000 after hip surgery, which everyone says should not have happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	I would simply like to know from the Minister whether this is being mapped out by the NZa because it is her job and, if not, whether she can have it mapped out. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	At my request, the NZa will examine the scope of the contract with regard to the budget policies. Is there a very narrow contract or a very large contract? I also asked the NZa to look at the contract as such and whether the quality played a role or only the price. That's the investigation the NZa is doing. What you are referring to is another investigation, namely whether people have received the right information. Well, that's what the NZa is for as a supervisor. The NZa must monitor the provision of information from its supervisory role. If the good information has been given but it has not been read but has been discarded, then the provider has fulfilled his legal obligation but the person who received the policy has not treated it as it should have been treated. So I'm gonna stick with this motion. Mrs Dijkstra's motion on item No. 603 calls on the Government to examine the extent to which goodwill is paid in the acquisition of general practitioners' practices and, if so, to take measures to put an end to this immediately. I am incredibly in agreement with this motion. We've had a phase in which general practitioners paid goodwill to each other. Then there was a settlement, because that goodwill was actually the retirement provision of those general practitioners. In that scheme goodwill has actually been paid off and then it is over with goodwill. It is exactly as Mrs Bouwmeester says; under the guise of taking over the inventory, however, a new flow of goodwill has just started again. In her motion, Mrs Dijkstra asks for an investigation and for measures to be taken if that investigation gives rise to such an investigation. I can tell her I'm already working on that. Following the initial reports, I have already indicated that I will investigate this phenomenon which has re-emerged in general practitioners, and that, if necessary, I will take action on it. So I see this motion as a policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	And that's what you're saying: Judge Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u40	Support policy. So judge Room, fine, do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u41	I think the Minister is so obvious that I'm withdrawing this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u42	Since the Pia Dijkstra motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 604 calls on the Government to take stock of competition in the system. We have a private system based on competition with the aim of achieving the best price-quality ratio. Because there were signals about unclearness, we made a whole tour of the Netherlands to find out where it wrings and how we could solve it with each other. We are talking to general practitioners about how to make sure that the contract is better next time. If people want to abandon competition, I would point out that you do need a countervailing power. It is difficult to say that we are abolishing competition and you can ask what you want and everyone simply has to pay. That would be at the expense of the patient. We're very busy with this. In all consultations, signals about where it wrings are viewed. By the way, the ACM has asked to give examples of where it wrings, but there is very little coming in. It's kind of like the first line. On the first line, we said that we would do pilot studies on funding and that we would take out those in the pilot where the regulations are holding back. That's practically out of the question. The 26 things we have received can almost all be achieved through the current rules. That's the way it is with the Competition Act. The ACM has already opened up: let us know where you think it wrings, because then we will see if it does. If it is in the interests of the patient, the Competition Act already provides for this possibility. We are really going in the wrong direction with this. I advise against this motion. This means you're going to another system. I'm fine with that. It should then be a political decision to move to a public system. That's not what we're supposed to do in this cabinet. In order to make that transition, the Chamber must hire another minister. Another system is not on the table, and I would therefore strongly advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u44	The Minister doesn't quite understand what I'm asking for with my motion. She's already pointing out that she's checking where it's wringing. That's what I'm asking in that motion. So the Minister could also say that she is already doing this, just as she did it on the other motion. Then I get it. If she reads the motion in such a way that I want to completely change the system, then she does not read the motion properly. Maybe I should take a closer look at the wording. My intention is mainly to put the finger on the sore spot and to find out where we can improve the system. If competition does exactly what we do not want, then we have to look at it. In fact, the Minister himself gives the answer. She says she's already looking at it and there's not much response to it. The question then is whether this possibility is sufficiently clear to everyone. We have heard in the past from the ACM that it does not give any prior advice. Well, that's obviously different now. I wanted to make it clear to the Minister how I stand in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u45	A motion has previously been tabled in which the government was asked to examine, in accordance with the rules on horticulture, whether such a possibility would be possible for the general practitioners under the Competition Act. Slowly but surely I see this idea again in the debate. It is asked whether the Competition Act should still apply to the general practitioners and whether we should not amend it. I am not in favour of that at all. That is what I said in response to that motion. I did say that if there is an arrangement in another area that allows it to be dealt with within the law, I would be happy to look at it. That's what we're doing right now. In her second motion, in part No. 604, Mrs Dijkstra asked the government to take stock of competition in the system. The ACM already gives preliminary views. This has also been communicated to the Chamber following the tour of the institutions in the field. With the NZa and the ACM I have visited the field. We've invited all the domes, including hospitals, psychotherapists, physiotherapists, general practitioners, etc., to those sessions. The ACM has said to all of them: if you think something is in the patient's best interest, when it is not possible, please report it to us. So I think that's an inventory already. You tell the people in the field that if they run into something, they have to report it to the ACM. However, we do not receive very many reports. What am I supposed to do? I said to the general practitioners: if you do not want to report yourself, pass that report to me, then I will take it to the ACM. In her motion, Mrs Dijkstra asks me to take stock of where competition in the system is at stake. If she wants to call it an inventory, that's fine, but I've already done it, which makes the motion unnecessary. If she expects anything extra from me, I'm actually going to repeat what I did last year in that whole field session.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u46	We are now looking at the first line. What I had in mind with the motion is to look at the second line as well. The minister says she already does. I will consider this. I'd like to hear from the Minister what her verdict on the motion is. Is the motion completely rejected, is it superfluous, according to the Minister, or does the Minister leave this motion to the Chamber? That's what I'm curious about. I'll see what I can do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u47	The motion contains the assumption that the Competition Act is blocking all kinds of things. I've been looking for these possible blockages for almost two years now. I've called on everyone to report these cases to us or to the ACM. If people think it's too big a step to report to the ACM, they can report their problem to me and then I go to the ACM. In this motion, I am instructed to do another study on something that I do not actually get any complaints about from the field. In doing so, we would build on an idea that does not materialise. That's why I advise against this motion. After all, we are already working on this route. I'm getting very few complaints. I'm gonna invite everyone back to report any problems. I've done that before, including in the discussions we're holding together. It is a little too light that we could simply eliminate the Competition Act without putting a new force into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u48	That seems to me to be a very nice invitation from the Minister on the first line and also on the second line; I found the latter the interesting point of this motion. The reason no complaints come in is that the care field is completely cramped. Until recently, the supervisor was inaccessible; he said: I am not an application counter for requests. That has now been adjusted, very neatly. Now it's said that if you work out an idea, you can come by. I have a question about the pilots. The minister said that there are 26 pilots and that within those pilots everything can be done. However, the people who set up the pilot have been very clearly informed that the pilot had to fit into existing legislation and regulations; it should not have been otherwise. So the question isn't whether we can do better. There was just no room. Did I get that correctly? Or does the Minister say that if good initiatives are taken outside the framework, I am open to them, provided that people do not enter into price agreements? Of course, everyone's against price fixing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u49	I'll start with the question about the pilots. What Mrs Bouwmeester says is not so. There are also pilots that are not possible within the regulatory framework. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er geloof ik twee.]] So it's not like all pilots had to stay within the rules. We've reviewed the pilots that came out of the field. So we didn't come up with them ourselves. The field had to come up with the idea. This showed that almost everything was possible, except for a single example. That is what we have agreed on. So it's been an open invitation. Mrs Bouwmeester said that this has been updated at the ACM. That's not true. It was updated a year and a half ago. We have made a whole tour of the Netherlands. We have also invited the second line to do so. We have had a number of sessions in which people from hospitals and rehabilitation institutions have visited. I've been there myself. So it's not like the second line or the first line doesn't know that you can pre-check things with the ACM. That's what happened. Members could also come up with an example of a hospital merger, which has been reported in the media that they went to the ACM in advance. So the second line was taken. It's not just the first line. A year and a half ago, the ACM subsequently changed its view into a prior and open view. She did that whole tour with me. Then we also agreed: do not submit anything if you think it is not possible but it is in the interests of your patient. The Competition Act makes an exception in this respect. Collaboration may be carried out in the interests of the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u50	I see Mrs Leijten is at the interrupting microphone. Mrs Bouwmeester would first like to respond to the Minister's reply. Mrs Leijten may then interrupt, but she may no longer engage in further interruptions. Then we move on to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u51	This is once again an important statement by the Minister. It's also an invitation: if you want to work together for the benefit of the patient, go to the ACM which then tests in advance. I've also been to a number of meetings. There the ACM said that it cannot pre-check everything, because it has too few people and because it is not an open window. There is therefore a difference of opinion. I might as well say there's another feeling in the field. I hear a minister here who says: "Do absolutely; I want cooperation to be done, I do not want legislation to be blocked." That's very important, but it really doesn't match the feeling that lives in the field. The Minister has organized a few meetings. That's good, too. This will eventually be the subject of a report, which will state where it pinches and what else needs to be done. I now hear from the Minister that those reports are already there. A conclusion must then be drawn. Apparently, there's too much discontent. Where is it and how can it be even better?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u52	That report is indeed already there. It's been in the Chamber for almost a year. On the basis of that report, we went into the administrative discussions to see how we could do things that pose problems differently. One of the conclusions is that we need to negotiate. That is also taken over in "Quality pays off." I have also indicated in several letters to the Chamber what emerged from that round by the country. There are best practices you can take over from each other. In the administrative discussions in which the whole field is, by the way, we are also talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u53	We received those reports this summer. We have received a protest against this report from at least one professional association, because it was very colourful and was therefore not a good representation of the meetings. The minister says there's an overview that an inventory has been made. Why can't that be put clearly on one or two A4s again? We hear that competition often interferes with care and care providers. The Minister will recognize this from the public debate. It's in everyone's favor if we can clear up any misunderstandings. I advise the Minister to look at Mrs Dijkstra's motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u54	When I hear that the Competition Act is in the way, I always invite people to discuss it with me or with the ACM. Well, that's not gonna happen. I can't force it eventually. We will really need examples to come to us. I have already promised a long time, and I am doing so again once again, so that I can look at real bottlenecks. The ACM has also said that it will look at it with an open eye. The motion calls for something else. If we follow it, we all maintain the idea while it doesn't materialize for the time being. So I'd really like to discourage the motion. In the motion by Mrs Bruins Slot in part No. 605 the government is asked to establish that health insurers may hold a certain maximum of reserves. Now it was the CDA that was the great advocate of a public-private system in this system. I have often been asked: why isn't the VVD the big trigger of a public-private system? The minister who was there at the time had the idea that it could also be a public system. As a party, the CDA has always demanded that it be a private system within public conditions. So that's what it's become. Now it's a private system and now the CDA is asking in the motion to rob the reserves of private insurers. This is not the first time, because the CDA has also tabled this motion in a debate with the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance has also denied that motion before. That makes sense, because it does not fit into European legislation. European regulations ensure a private system; the private system of which the CDA is the founder. So it will not surprise anyone that I once again dissuade this motion, but I also find it strange that there is a hard fight for a private system and that motions are now being tabled which are actually part of a public system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u55	We've been ten years. Some things aren't going well. Indeed, as the Minister points out, it is a system with important public framework conditions. This seems to me to be an important addition as a public peripheral condition. So far neither the Minister of Finance nor the Minister of VWS has been able to justify sufficiently why this cannot be done under European law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u56	This isn't even close. It is crystal clear that you cannot skim reserves in private parties. If you say we've changed our minds, you should think of a public system. You can't skim reserves with private companies. That's not even close, there's no discussion, every lawyer will tell you. You're really gonna have to go to another system if you're gonna skim reserves. You can't get a hold of private providers, whoever they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u57	The Minister states that reserves should be skimmed. The motion makes it very clear that there must be a maximum of reserves. This means that health insurers themselves are still dealing with the use of the money. That is a very different angle from the Minister's approach. Who's talking about spending the money they get? Those are the health insurance companies. They just can't put it on the shelf dead but they have to spend it on lower premiums or on care. So I understand that because this is a difficult subject, the Minister gives a different explanation than is actually intended, but I would simply ask her to read this motion very carefully. The government isn't rooming, the government is just setting a maximum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u58	That is not possible either. In fact, from this Chamber, of course in consultation with the government, after the financial crisis, we have only increased the demand for financial institutions, including for insurers. We've got Solvency II. We're gonna push that up. So financial institutions have to hold even more reserves. If we cross over, reserves must be maintained, so no one should be surprised that insurers do. If it does not go well with an insurer, the Dutch Bank says: you do not go below 100%; so far it has been below 150%. That's gonna change with Solvency II. But so you don't go with private institutions to, by setting a maximum of reserves where the government says: you should be more at risk because we think your ceilings are too high. You can't do that in a private system. Any lawyer can explain that to you too, and you know that, because you are a lawyer yourself. That is not possible in the system we have here today. The Minister of Finance has also indicated this a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-3.u59	This brings us to the end of the answer given by the Minister. The vote on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
