ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u1	Mr. Chairman. I thank all the spokesmen who have contributed. I think it's good to tell you how I'd like to dress up my first term. I sort of clustered all the questions and poured them into five blocks. The first block is about the design of the bill. A lot of questions have been asked about that. The second block deals with the language test resulting from the legislative proposal. The third block is about the implementation by municipalities. In the fourth block I deal with the international and European legal aspects. The last block is about the financial effects. That's how I try to set up my first term. After thanking Members, I would like to stress, together with all Members, that participation in our society naturally starts with language. The mastery of Dutch is a necessary condition on the way to participating in society and also on the way to the labour market. Even the most simple tasks require basic knowledge of our language. It is important to report that the Cabinet... some members have discussed it....................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a joint programme of the departments of OCW, VWS and SZW, aimed at reducing low literacy and preventing language disadvantages. It shall run for three years, from 2016 to 2018. A total of EUR 54 million will be deployed for the purpose. The cabinet therefore also makes real resources available. The action programme also helps to support the language improvement of beneficiaries of assistance. The availability of courses at local level and other opportunities to improve language management are, of course, also affected. It is no good for anyone to get into assistance, especially for people who have not had a chance to learn the language properly. So we have to do everything we can to help those people learn that language. With this change of law, we provide a clear framework within which people in the assistance will make an effort to master that Dutch language. I told you I wanted to answer in cubes. I'll start at the first block. It's about the design of the bill. All the Members who have spoken this afternoon have asked why the cabinet considers this law necessary and why encouraging the mastery of the Dutch language cannot simply be left to municipalities without this change of law. The CDA started that question. It is also the CDA's most important question. I, too, have heard that the CDA Group has put a number of supplementary questions to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. This question was, however, of the utmost importance. I would like to reply as follows. The WWB requires beneficiaries to make use of a provision offered by the college aimed at employment. This can be a language pathway or a reintegration pathway. The College shall decide for itself what is appropriate and whether it considers a provision necessary. But the government believes that a sufficient mastery of the Dutch language is really an absolute prerequisite for obtaining work. You could say that this bill imposes an obligation on the college to check this if a beneficiary does not have sufficient knowledge of the Dutch language. If the supporting documents requested cannot be consulted and in the event of insufficient control, the College should require the man or woman concerned to follow such a language pathway and to make an effort there. That is why we have made this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u2	In the beginning, Secretary of State Klijnsma indicated that there is already a possibility to offer a provision. Someone may be obliged to accept that provision if it contributes to the reintegration of labour. This proposal breaks down very clearly with the idea of a provision being made. I have also asked if there are any other examples in which a person is obliged to acquire knowledge himself without any provision attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u3	I will come to that in a moment, when we talk about how people get that knowledge of the Dutch language. This leader, if I may put it that way, mastering the Dutch language, we find it so essential that we say lectures of B and W in the Netherlands that they should help people. Mrs Strik's question is whether these lectures should provide the courses or other tools or whether they can also say: you have to make that effort yourself, so you also have to find out how to do it. I think it is important that, from lectures, i.e. by customer managers, the person in question is carefully considered how that language can be acquired. If it means that the person has to attend a professional course, it should also be considered whether he can pay for it himself or whether the lecture should help with that. It may also mean that he, with help, has also addressed Mrs Strik himself, for example, a language partner who can make an effort to obtain the language properly. It's really custom-made per person, if you don't mind my saying so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u4	The Secretary of State acknowledges that this system breaks the rule we know that a provision is being offered. She says that it is being considered in good consultation whether this is necessary. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that municipalities should offer a provision if it turns out that someone has to take a course in order to reach that required level?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u5	That's really up to the municipalities themselves. That is the policy freedom of the municipalities. But it is not for nothing that we have rolled that programme wide out from three departments and made 54 million available for it. Of course, this programme also helps to maintain facilities in municipalities. I would like to speak about this further. Then maybe I can zoom in on that even further. There was a question from Mr Beckers from the VVD. He asks what timetable the government intends to reduce the number of people who do not have enough knowledge of the Dutch language. Not only is this legislative proposal important for this, but also the action programme 'Tel mee met Taal'. This action programme focuses on the approach of low literacy and was sent to the House of Representatives last week. I have just said that the aim of this action programme is, among other things, that in the period 2016-2018, 45,000 Dutch people can be shown to improve their language control. This, of course, benefits social participation. In addition, 1 million young children will be reached with reading promotion activities during the same period. That helps. Then the PVV Group and the Independent Senate Group raised the issue of how the pending procedure around the AMvB will look exactly and whether or not it will come. I'm working on developing that AMvB right now. I will then ask the Council of State for its opinion on this. I don't intend to put the AMvB in front of the Chambers. It is not customary to appoint an AMvB to the First and Second Chambers. Of course, that happens by way of exception. This really is a technical AMvB, which regulates matters between the government and the municipalities. That AMvB will contain rules on the language key. This will provide municipalities with a framework to deal with the language test in practice. I will not therefore declare a pending procedure applicable to this issue. The next question from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has already been addressed by interrupting, but I would like to answer it further. Mrs Strik asked me what I think about the lack of a guarantee for the course offer. The municipality can pay the costs of the language course in the context of reintegration, but in the context of policy freedom it is reserved for the college to make the assessment. The City Council should lay down rules in the Re-integration Regulation on the provision of services for labour integration in a broad sense. There are plenty of opportunities to learn the Dutch language. The costs vary according to the nature of the study and the specific local offer. Therefore, the college, together with the interested party, will consider how best to increase language skills, given the individual circumstances of the interested party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u6	The Secretary of State sometimes says: the Empire believes it should impose a duty on the College to reduce assistance in the event of reasonable suspicion. However, when it comes to the question of the possibility for municipalities to actually provide for this and the possibility for recipients of assistance to acquire the language, it once again invokes the freedom of local authorities. Isn't it one thing or the other? If it is so firm as to impose a duty on municipalities, must it be the case that it gives municipalities the opportunity to do so and allows welfare recipients to acquire the language? It's about something! People can lose half or their entire welfare if this doesn't go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u7	What municipalities now have to do is to look closely at whether people who are knocking on their door can master the language in such a way that they can be well active in the labour market. I do not need to raise the issue of the law again, but if municipalities think that certain people need extra commitment and that they need to make additional efforts to do so, then so should be the case. The municipality therefore has a duty to look closely at the degree of mastery of the Dutch language per applicant. The municipality then has the policy freedom to consider how the client in question can be helped to properly implement the effort to acquire the language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u8	What about the guarantee for welfare recipients if they are required to reach a certain level within six months? If it is an illiterate, then it must be accompanied by a guarantee for such a person that he is also offered the possibility and the means to do so. We're talking about someone on welfare. It won't be able to pull out thousands of euros that easily. I'd like the Secretary of State to go into that more specifically. We are not just talking about the policy freedom of municipalities. We are also talking about enabling people to actually meet that level of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mrs Strik is right here, because people's background can be incredibly different. People can be very linguistic but not in Dutch. These people can master Dutch via digital possibilities. But if people, as Mrs Strik says, are illiterate and have never learned to read and write in their own language, then that requires a very different course form than when you write and speak four languages fluently, apart from Dutch. In short, it is very important that the church together with the man in question looks at what suits him best. Then it is really up to the municipality to see if the municipality wants to help financially. That's why it's nice that the 54 million is on the table. That comes with the resources that we can provide from the participation budget. Municipalities can then see if people can get started with self-study or otherwise. That depends very much on the person in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u10	I understand very well that what is needed must be considered. That makes sense. There must be tailor-made work, but if it is then found that someone really needs a course from a qualified teacher, then shouldn't you fall back into the mantra of policy freedom? Then there must be a guarantee for that person to be able to take that course, also in order to prevent someone from losing their benefit? I'd like to give the Secretary of State another point. Municipalities themselves have indicated that the participation budget is insufficient to provide for everyone. So should the beneficiary not be granted that right if it is found necessary? And should not municipalities be allowed to offer this at the same time? The Secretary of State is talking about the new budget of 54 million, but that's about everything and everyone. We are now talking about welfare recipients who are in this particular dependent position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u11	Then the answer remains that municipalities from the participation budget are looking at what people need to be able to re-integrate, including the Dutch language. There are a lot of different methods that allow you to greatly improve language management. Some methods hardly need to cost money, others do. Then Mrs Strik has the point of attention that municipalities can offer this course if it costs money. But again, that's the municipality's policy freedom. That is for the municipality itself to decide in close coordination with the person in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u12	The Secretary of State says: it is the policy freedom of the municipalities. They can do it on the basis of current budgets and resources. But if I understand correctly, this law is precisely meant to take away a piece of policy freedom from municipalities and to force people to learn Dutch. I haven't heard any figures yet, but I assume all the questions I had asked are still being addressed. The Secretary of State just said that the Dutch municipalities can do it but do not have to do it yet, and that there was an omission there because Dutch is so essential that Dutch municipalities have to do it. But when it comes to resources, the Secretary of State points out the freedom of the municipalities. What is it? Do they now have the freedom of policy and can they do it as they see fit? Or should they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u13	Municipalities need to check whether people master Dutch enough to be able to participate in the labour market. Afterwards they can explore with the people in question which paths can be taken to master Dutch. That is the commitment of the people. They must make an effort to acquire Dutch. Then the municipality can see if it helps and, if so, how.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u14	So the municipalities have to monitor it and the people have to learn Dutch. The municipalities can then offer an instrument. That's what's happening now. But shouldn't the municipalities now also do everything to lead those people to accept generally accepted labour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u15	In all these facets, municipalities are now on the move, but this is reflected in their own regulations. This is a law change. The cabinet considers the language part so important for people to be able to participate in society at all that the cabinet emphasizes that with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u16	I've asked a lot of questions. I hope to hear why the cabinet considers it so important and what indications there were that municipalities apparently did not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u17	That is what I started my first term, and the Members of Parliament have underlined all this in their contributions: language is, of course, incredibly essential to be able to participate in society, not only in the labour market but also otherwise. That is also what led the government to enter into this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u18	Finally, Mr Elzinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u19	That is not yet an answer to the question of whether it is also a problem. I've asked a lot of questions about that. I assume the Secretary of State will return to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u20	We recognise the problem that many people still do not have enough power in the language to be sufficiently active in the labour market. That's the background to this bill. I come to another question from GroenLinks and, by the way, from the Labour Party, namely whether the learning process under the Integration Act can also be regarded as an effort as envisaged in the current legislative proposal. In addition, they ask whether the college itself can choose to do so and whether an applicant can deal with two separate routes and two separate sets of conditions. Where a beneficiary of assistance has started a process aimed at improving his mastery of the Dutch language under the Act of Integration, this can be considered as sufficient effort on the part of the beneficiary. Thus, the beneficiary does not have to deal with two separate routes, namely the language requirement of the Participation Act and the integration process. The municipality does monitor to what extent progress is made during the integration process. In addition, the role of DUO has been requested. In some cases, a beneficiary may make use of a DUO loan, for example, if he or she is required to settle in and attend an integration course with a language provider with the "Blik op oplek" label. The groups of the CDA and PVV and the Independent Senate Group asked a question about the commitment. Do I want a long-term result commitment? I do not think that an obligation to achieve results is desirable. After all, we have many low-lettered people whose 1F-level results cannot be required. This law provides the municipalities with good guidelines for achieving the goal that the Dutch language is sufficiently controlled to get to work. Therefore, I do not think that an obligation to achieve results is desirable. The OSF asked: "Linguistic control is also important for non-aid recipients?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u21	I come back to the commitment of effort versus the commitment of results. Of course it all sounds wonderful: we are doing our best and it will be fine, but of course it is not so much a question of whether we are doing our best but of whether language skills are created at the end of the journey. I am not listening in any way to the fact that what the Secretary of State has in mind will actually lead to language skills if it is not used more firmly. I know the point of view. I read that in the written preparation. I would say that we are having a debate here and that hopefully it will not be the same arguments as those exchanged in writing. That sounds like a waste of time to me. I really want to hear why, in some detail, an effort obligation is preferable to a result obligation. Surely this should be based on greater effectiveness of the whole? I don't hear anything about that, but I'd like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u22	Surely it is right that we should remain consistent with what we have exchanged in writing in the oral procedure. It would be special if I were to say something different than what I have said in writing. Anyway, I'd like to zoom in a little, if that's appreciated. If the level of language control is insufficient, I assume that a beneficiary will start working on it and that he or she will make an effort to improve his or her knowledge of the language. I think it is conceivable that some welfare recipients, despite their efforts, will not master the Dutch language at reference level 1F. Now the College reduces the assistance only in case of culpable insufficient efforts to achieve mastery of the Dutch language. So I think the commitment is a very good one. I do not think that an obligation to achieve results is desirable in this respect, as I said. In that respect, I remain consistent. My answer to the other question from the OSF is that language management is indeed also important for non-aid recipients. Municipalities are already focusing on improving language management in the broad sense of the word, as various organisations and initiatives are active at local level to combat language disadvantages and low literacy. I just talked about the program. I'm not repeating that. The aim of this programme is to increase the number of citizens, from children to adults, to improve their language skills in order to increase their opportunities for social and economic participation now and in the future. It is therefore important that attention be paid to tackling low literacy in the labour market, but also in the broad sense of the word. In this respect, I very much agree with Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u23	Thank you. That all sounds wonderful, but of course it is really a question of achieving results. Again, I don't hear anything about that. Yes, efforts are being made. That is all very nice, but what are the results of this effort? What figures are included? How can we draw attention to the successes of the programmes of which the Secretary of State gives a high priority? I'm very charmed with plans, but I'm much more charmed with results. I would like to hear about this in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u24	I have just noted that the aim of the action programme is that 45,000 Dutch people can be shown to improve their language skills in the period 2016-2018. Those are round numbers, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u25	Those are round figures about plans, not results, while these are, of course, results. We can all throw numbers for a future that is unwitting and promises everything and everything, but people who lack language skills need facts. This is a concrete result of a concrete effort leading to concrete matters in the labour market. So I don't hear anything about that. I find that disturbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u26	This is too easy for me. It is not for nothing that we are working from three departments to deal with the problem of low literacy in the Netherlands. It's really a handicap for people when they can't read and write. That is why we are so anxious to help in this respect. Mr De Lange asks me exactly what results I want to see. We really want to try to offer a large number of people the helping hand, so that they can read and write later or at least do enough with all of us. I find it too easy to put that away this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u27	Finally, Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u28	Finally, yes, because I do not think we are getting anywhere with this either. We're talking about reading and writing now, but language management is more than that. Because you also have verbal language skills. I would say that a great deal has already been won once that verbal language mastery has been brought to a higher level. That can be effective in a lot of jobs for a lot of people to function properly. If there is another reading and writing, that is of course wonderful, but we must distinguish between the various steps needed to achieve language control. Throwing everything in a big pot and mixing it up isn't the solution, I'm afraid. I would also like to hear the Secretary of State's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u29	I think that Mr De Lange and I do not disagree at all, because of course not only reading and writing is essential, but also speaking, listening and being able to understand each other well. That way you can interact with each other. That's what we're doing right now, you might say. The D66 group, through Mrs Scholten and the VVD group, asked when the law would come into force and whether the municipalities would be equipped to do so. The bill goes together with an AMvB, which must enter into force simultaneously. The AMvB is still to be submitted to the Council of State. Under agreements between Rijk and municipalities, a minimum period of three months is then maintained for preparation by municipalities. I've been held to the fixed change times for legislation. I will focus on introduction as of 1 July 2015, but I will of course take into account the above aspects. As soon as I have received the opinion of the Council of State, I can make a final decision on the date of introduction. Mr Kok asked whether the cabinet would not acknowledge that a large part of the welfare recipients never get to work. It will not surprise anyone that the cabinet wants to offer an excellent perspective for everyone, and that is why this bill has been made, so that everyone can participate. The government is making every effort to make full use of the opportunities available in the labour market. This is also the guiding principle of the important legislation that has been implemented by this Chamber. I call the Work and Security Act, the Participation Act, but also the sector plans and everything that municipalities are doing right now. The figures from the CPB that came out last week confirm the line taken: economic growth is picking up this year and according to the CPB there is a steady recovery. Unemployment is also beginning to decline very carefully. Everyone's working on it incredibly hard. The second block is about the language test. The PVV has asked whether the level of 1F is sufficient to be able to participate effectively in the labour market. The level 1F of the reference language comes from the work of the Meijerink Commission. The reference language is a clear framework for Dutch, to which the whole education refers. This involves a basic mastery of the language in word and writing. In addition, the language level is in line with the requirements of the Law on Integration. So that's a good thing for each other. GroenLinks asked a question about the funding of the necessary course. I just answered that. The VVD and the SP asked a question about the number of welfare recipients with insufficient language skills. The question to me is whether I have national or municipal figures on the size of the group of welfare recipients who cannot produce a document as proof of language control. No figures are available for the number of recipients of assistance who do not have sufficient control of the Dutch language. Because until now, there has been no national policy on language management of welfare recipients. Therefore, no uniform data are recorded by municipalities. But of course, we're going to evaluate this law in four years. We are now being monitored and in four years time we will be able to provide these insights. The third block is about the implementation by the municipalities. GroenLinks and the PVV have asked why I am so involved in these municipalities. Don't you want me to stop doing that for once? It is of course extremely important that labour and reintegration obligations are also addressed in the context of the Participation Act. Being able to express itself in the Dutch language is of course an important element. I've already gone into that. This legislative proposal provides a concrete and separate legal framework with clear rules on the efforts of welfare recipients to learn the Dutch language. This is also true of the rules of the game if there is not enough progress to be made. The implementation has a good handle and the interested party who calls for assistance knows what is expected of him or her. For these reasons, this law adds the mastery of the Dutch language as an independent obligation to the Participation Act. The Labour Party and the VVD have asked a question about the response. It says that, of course, the language requirement cannot apply to those who do their best, but who will not succeed in reaching the required level. As a result of this remark, Members are asking whether I can explain the meaning of the answer for the College of B and W. Because how does the College establish that someone will not succeed, despite great efforts? It is up to the college to determine whether there is any culpability with regard to the efforts, aimed at adequately mastering the Dutch language. Because not everyone can expect the same pace. Interested parties are given a reasonable and realistic period of time to learn the language. This time limit is tailored to the individual. A proportionate approach is sought for stakeholders. I would like to stress that no one is excluded from assistance in advance. Conditions such as dyslexia, illiteracy, cognitive problems, health reasons, medical grounds, audio and visual limitations are all circumstances that can play a role in the assessment of culpability. I trust that municipalities will make such an assessment extremely careful, as they are currently doing in the context of the Participation Act with regard to other obligations. The Labour Party asked whether the college should take account of the personal circumstances, such as the presence of children to be cared for or the living conditions of those concerned, in the application of culpability. It is explicitly for the College to assess whether there is any culpability. In the absence of any form of culpability, there is no question of a reduction in assistance at all. If it appears that, due to personal circumstances, such as the presence of children to be cared for and the living conditions of those concerned, the recipients of assistance are unable to meet the required language level, explicit individualising provisions have been introduced which allow the assistance not to be reduced. There is therefore an individual consideration by the College before any reduction in assistance can be made. The PvdA has asked whether the college should be clear to stakeholders at the beginning of the improvement process. The College may examine and agree with the interested parties on how and at what rate language skills can be enhanced in the light of the individual circumstances of an interested party. Municipalities monitor the progress of the effort in improving the mastery of the Dutch language. It belongs to the policy freedom of the municipalities to determine how they assess progress. I can therefore imagine that there are already good examples of "municipalities' making a plan of action, together with the interested party concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u30	Of course, that point leaves a lot of questions open. How's the college gonna judge that? Booking progress can quickly become a subjective concept. But have I read the law correctly that at the beginning someone is told that it is not enough, after which it will be examined after six months whether progress has been made? If the College considers that insufficient progress has been made, the benefit will be reduced retroactively as soon as it has been informed in writing that there is a presumption. That's how I read the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u31	I want to understand Mrs. Strik. Because something will only be done by the College if it really believes that no or very insufficient effort has been made, after six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u32	I hope that is not the case, but I read in the bill that the benefit will then be reduced retroactively to six months before. It says: 'The College reduces assistance, which does not happen if someone has made sufficient progress, which is considered after six months.' That moment in reducing assistance is the moment when there is a reasonable presumption. Perhaps the Secretary of State can answer that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u33	Following, because the reasonable suspicion of course does not arise until after some time. There will be no retroactive effect. I would like to return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u34	I have a supplementary question on this. Is it true that, before the College goes down, it still needs to take a second language test? There is a language test at the beginning of the course, but is it also after, for example, the six months Mrs Strik mentioned? Is there therefore a second language test before the College can decide to reduce the benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u35	That's exactly how it is. If the college has reason to believe that no effort has been made and therefore no progress has been made at all, then the college should carry out a test to really prove that before it can do anything with the welfare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u36	Thank you for that answer. I just want to take one step back in the answer. The Secretary of State has said that the college talks to those involved about how and the pace at which the improvement of language management is completed. At that time, it also agrees on how progress is measured. Do I have to realise that the college makes an offer to beneficiaries about how it wants to make agreements? For the beneficiary, this may mean that specific requirements are imposed on progress, and that the college is willing to make certain resources available if someone takes a course. In other situations, it may have an offer that is at a very different level and on which other agreements are made, for example with language buddies. Is there an offer from the college to the beneficiary at any given time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u37	That is a question that Mrs Strik implicitly asked. The answer to that is yes. Each time you look at the person in question who knocks on the door and needs to get a better look at Dutch. It's really different for every human being. The college will therefore examine with the person in question what is appropriate for him or her. Then I come to a question from the VVD. What exactly should the language test by municipalities meet? The municipalities have freedom of choice for a test. For example, they can choose to use a test that is also used in integration. In order to ensure equality of law, the quality and objectivity of the language test are required in an AMvB. Those requirements shall include the elements to be included in the test, the method of checking the different components and the method of assessing the test. Then I come to a question from D66. Why did we ask the implementation panel for advice and not the VNG? The implementation panel advises on the feasibility aspects of planned policies and laws and regulations. It consists of about fifteen to twenty municipalities. It provides good technical advice on the functioning of laws and regulations, which often lead to adaptation and improvement. The VNG also has a formal session on the implementation panel, like Divosa, the SVB and KING. KING is the quality institute for municipalities. As has been mentioned several times in the parliamentary process, no separate formal recommendation has been submitted to the VNG, as similar proposals have been discussed with the implementation panel of the municipalities. The insights resulting from those discussions have been processed. However, the AMvB attached to the bill has been submitted to the VNG and the implementation panel for advice. These opinions will be taken into account in the final elaboration of the AMvB. That's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u38	I thank the Secretary of State for this answer, but I remain curious about these similar proposals. That is not this bill, otherwise they will not be comparable. It has therefore been other legislative proposals discussed with the Implementation Panel which are applicable to the implementation of this bill. Then what were the legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u39	There has, of course, been a great advance on this bill. I think Mrs Scholten is also aware of this. Those legislative proposals were also exchanged with the implementation panel. The implementation panel has been closely involved. I come to the fourth block: the international and European legal aspects of the legislative proposal. GroenLinks in particular addressed this issue, but also the SP. I have, of course, seen that the CDA has also asked a number of questions about this to GroenLinks. The members of the GroenLinks Group asked whether the bill is sustainable within international and European law. On this bill, the government has carried out an extensive test of European and international law. That test is described in the explanatory memorandum. The Government considers that this bill is fully in line with international law and is also supported by the Council of State. As explained in the explanatory memorandum and in the answers to the questions of the Second and First Chambers, the proportionate way in which the legislative proposal imposes requirements on welfare recipients is in line with the requirements of European law in relation to EU nationals. The bill provides for a Dutch language requirement for all welfare recipients. No distinction is made in this regard. I believe that, in the general interest, everyone should be required to remove obstacles to finding paid employment. Therefore, if the Dutch language is an obstacle to finding work, it will also have to be removed in order to prevent interested parties from being able to participate in the labour market. So we have tested this law out-and-after by international regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u40	Of course I've read all those pieces, too. However, I read the same mantra all the time. On the one hand, there is no discrimination or unequal treatment, because everyone is treated the same. On the other hand, this is entirely justified by the general interest. It starts with this unequal treatment, because the exemption applies to people who have been in Dutch-speaking education for eight years. This means that duty applies to all those who have not done so and who have spent their youth elsewhere. The duty does not apply to low-skilled and illiterate people who have been to school in the Netherlands. Then there is an indirect distinction, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u41	The present bill does not treat people differently for reasons that are wholly or partly related to their ethnicity. It provides for a language requirement for all recipients of assistance. No distinction is therefore made between ethnicity. I understand what Mrs. Strik is saying. However, this is justified in so far as there would be an indirect distinction, since, in the general interest of everyone in the Netherlands, obstacles to becoming active in the labour market may be required. Then you can just take this from people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u42	I am pleased that the Secretary of State is going to be in favour of that second line of reasoning in order to be sure. It then more or less acknowledges that there is indirect discrimination. In my opinion, it is not a question of justifying this in the general interest of learning Dutch. Of course, this applies equally to those low-school and illiterate people who have been educated in the Netherlands. If you want that distinction to be justified, the proportionality requirement applies. Then it is so important that an offer is made and that someone is actually able to meet the required knowledge of the Dutch language. It is precisely because of this combination that I have really tried to make clear that you are in the process of acting in violation of the international bans on discrimination. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to go into this and also to consider whether she has considered seeking advice, for example at the Human Rights College. It's all about this kind of thing. That is why we have actually created that body.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u43	For the record, of course, I did not say that we underline indirect discrimination. That really needs to be very clear. However, as far as that is concerned, it is justified because we are so keen that all people can join us all. That is essential to note now. The Council of State has looked more closely at international law for a reason. The opinion of the Council of State cannot be interpreted in two ways, I think. In this respect, we are international law in the doctrine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u44	I also follow the second part of the reasoning and the opinion of the Council of State, but for the sake of clarity I would like to ask the following. Surely the legislative proposal, the reductions and any sanctions that result from them only concern those who do not appear to have sufficient knowledge in a language test to obtain the reference framework 1F?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u45	I am pleased that Mr Elzinga is asking this again for the Acts. The point is that people are making a real effort to acquire the language. Over time, often after six months, it will be examined whether this effort has been made. If it turns out that this is not the case, there is a test and the municipality can adjust the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u46	So the effort requirement only applies to those for whom the language test might be at issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u47	This applies to all welfare recipients. If someone makes an application for assistance, he must, of course, discuss a number of matters, including whether he has mastered Dutch to some extent. Many people who were born and raised in the Netherlands and went to school here can indicate that they had eight years of primary education. Then, of course, this commitment is not on the table. It is on the agenda if people obviously do not master Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u48	Just as sharp: if someone has had eight years of primary education here, this is not the issue. Whether someone is low-literate or illiterate, after eight years of primary education, there is no language test and there is neither the same obligation of effort nor the possibility of a sanction on the basis of this legislative amendment. So if someone has not had eight years of primary education in the Netherlands, then the test and the commitment to master Dutch will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u49	Yes, unless someone can present another document showing that he mastered Dutch well. That's right. Let me remind you of another question that I have already answered at an earlier stage. If someone has been in school for eight years and obviously doesn't control Dutch, then of course municipalities can also help that man or woman learn Dutch. I don't think that's gonna happen very often. I'm getting to the last block. It's about the financial effects of this law. The groups of GroenLinks, SP and PVV have asked questions about this. Can I justify the financial impact of this bill and the outflow to work? The savings of EUR 5 million are expected to be entirely due to additional or accelerated outflow from the assistance and not to a reduction in benefits. The government does not have exact numbers of welfare recipients who are expected to spill out as a result of the legislative proposal. This is partly due to the consistency with the WWB measures bill. These adjustments also lead to additional outflow from the assistance. The government has therefore entered a limited additional impact on benefit expenses in advance. This effect is based on the assumption that the legislative proposal will reduce the annual number of benefits by around 400. So that's an assumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u50	For the record, and especially for the Acts, the D66 Group had also asked the same question about financial support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u51	That's right. Don't blame me. That is indeed the case. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has asked for the funding of language courses. I've actually already dealt with that in the first block. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u52	The Secretary of State has indeed addressed the question of whether someone should not be given guarantees. She doesn't think so. However, the municipalities have clearly indicated that there should be an offer, but that they do not have the resources, given the declining participation budget. They also have other obligations. Does the Secretary of State also recognise that it is not possible? Does it recognise that municipalities need more than the current participation budget in order to be able to offer an appropriate offer in all these cases if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u53	We also had this financial discussion in the drafting of the Participation Act. We then discussed the question of whether the participation budget could be sufficient for the re-integration of people knocking on the door of the municipality. This is part of that, too. It is up to the municipalities what they offer. Again, I do not want to make it more beautiful or less beautiful: that really is the policy freedom of the municipalities. I have already exchanged extensively with Mrs Strik what different forms of courses and otherwise can be discussed if you want to learn Dutch. The municipality with the person in question can really look at that together. The D66 and SP groups have asked how the implementation costs can be calculated. This bill is largely part of the local authorities' regular implementation processes. So it doesn't get much extra work done. Customers are already required to submit various documents to the assistance intake. Adding a school diploma does not require any substantial additional effort. New in the implementation practice is that municipalities have to take a test to determine whether the language level is sufficient. Municipalities get a lot of freedom in shaping that test. Municipalities can use existing tests. The cost per test can therefore be limited. In addition, I assume that the number of people who will eventually have to take a language test is relatively limited. After all, not everyone who reports to the municipality will have to take a language test. This applies only to people who cannot produce a document showing that the mastery of the Dutch language is sufficient. I believe that the compensation of 5 million municipalities is adequately compensated for the additional implementation costs. In response to a question from the SP Group, I can confirm that costs are also limited because they are an effort obligation. That brings me to the end of my first term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. I asked two questions to the Secretary of State and four questions to GroenLinks. I would like to thank both the Secretary of State and Mrs Strik. The answer of the Secretary of State to the question of why this law should be introduced and why the municipalities can't regulate it decentrally themselves is that speaking the Dutch language is actually a requirement of national importance. Its implementation is left to the municipalities. From this reasoning you can of course continue to argue forever, but I say tonight that we can live with this reasoning. In the discussion about commitment to effort versus commitment to results over a number of years, my reasoning was very strongly linked to the change of policy in the Netherlands for immigrants. The Secretary of State has rightly widened the target group to anyone who is low-literate. As far as we are concerned, this is a longer-term issue. I don't think you should argue about what needs to happen in the longer term. The Secretary of State states that this is mainly about a larger group of low-literate people in our society. For that group we can live with the idea of the Secretary of State that an effort obligation is sufficient and that a result obligation for this group might have an incorrect effect. So we can go along with the Secretary of State. I'm in a very mild mood. Then I come to the question of whether the municipalities should, by definition, provide assistance to the beneficiary. We do not want to settle this matter at national level. Although the WMO is under discussion in other sectors, it is increasingly based on the question of what the client needs. Less and less is assumed of what facilities the municipality has on offer. We also want to apply this idea to the subject we are discussing tonight. Here too, we call for tailor-made work. My questions to Mrs Strik are in my opinion, but that is of course subjective, not answered in such a way that we have changed our opinion. In our opinion, GroenLinks believes too quickly that measures aimed at improving the position of the target group lead to indirect discrimination and are therefore contrary to international conventions. We cannot follow this line of reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u55	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions, although, like Mr Terpstra, I am not convinced by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State began her term by saying that learning the Dutch language is very important for integration and to participate. I think that opinion is shared by everyone in this house. In fact, the debate is not about that at all. It is important to learn the language, but the question is where to invest it and how to promote and encourage it as best as possible. This cabinet claims to find it terribly important. The previous cabinet also claimed this. However, I have to say that this cabinet, like the previous cabinet, does this in a very strange way. The obligation is laid down further in the law, but the existing instruments to make this possible are being abolished. That's what we saw in the Law of Integration. We had a very good education infrastructure, but it was destroyed. So we impose an additional obligation on migrants and then they can find out how they are going to fill it out. That is not our idea of integration policy or of promoting the Dutch language. I believe that the government has an important role to play in this. Then you can quite well impose an effort obligation. Almost everyone in this house has asked what the added value of this bill is compared to the current possibility that the municipalities already have and to the WWB measures introduced on 1 January. The Secretary of State's argument for the added value of this bill is that Dutch learning is so important, but I find that rather weak. It is precisely the fact that municipalities already have the possibility of obliging people to acquire language skills necessary for the reintegration of workers. I have not yet heard any argument as to why it is necessary to add the screws to the municipalities. To all other questions, the Secretary of State answers that it belongs to the policy freedom of the municipalities. That discrepancy remains in this story and in this bill. I am particularly disappointed by this cabinet and in any case by a PvdA Secretary of State that there is no more consistent line. I am disappointed that there is no more concern and attention to be paid to the possibility for municipalities to ensure that welfare recipients can actually acquire language skills. Is the measures taken on 1 January not already very much the aspect that the Secretary of State now intends to re-establish with this bill? Can the Secretary of State answer that? The Secretary of State doesn't listen to municipalities. She says she's had meetings, but everything shows that this happened afterwards. Then it's more about explaining than talking. The municipalities have asked very clearly to give them more flexibility. They see these people; they know what these people need. This can be different for every person, in terms of the labour market perspective. The Secretary of State didn't hear that. Then I come to the necessary budget. The municipalities have indicated that this proposal means that they have to offer more, but that they have no money for it. The Secretary of State said in reply to my question that we have already discussed this in the process of examining the Participation Act. However, with this bill, she is doing a little bit more. It has not yet given a concrete answer to the question as to whether this means that there is a greater need for a budget in order to achieve this. It cannot come from the existing budget, as more and more claims have been made on it in recent times. I'm disappointed. I regret that I have not been able to convince Mr Terpstra, but I find it even worse that I have not been able to convince the Secretary of State that there is indeed indirect discrimination if you impose a heavier obligation on a group of people just because they were born elsewhere or spent their youth. We have often raised these issues here, and in a number of cases it has later become apparent that the judge assesses these cases differently from the Secretary of State. Think, for example, of the principle of housing. Sometimes it's nice to be right, but sometimes it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u56	Mrs Strik believes that the distinction lies with people who have grown up elsewhere. I don't think that's the distinction that's made in our law. The distinction lies in the fact that some people are powerful in the Dutch language and others are not. People who have grown up in a different environment and culture and who have language skills are treated in the same way. In this law they are not confronted with the task of doing something about their language skills. A distinction is therefore made between those who do have language skills and those who do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u57	That is the point: that is not the point. Then the distinguishing criterion would be whether or not you have that skill in your house. However, that is not the case. People who have had Dutch language education for eight years are exempt from the test. It is therefore not even checked whether they meet the 1F language level. However, there are also very large numbers of illiterates or low-school graduates in the Netherlands who have been in Dutch-speaking education for up to eight years. They are completely excluded from this law. The content and language skills are therefore not the distinguishing criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u58	I hope that our education is such that those who have had eight years of primary school education meet the minimum requirement for language skills in Dutch. I don't have any figures. There will undoubtedly be occasional dropouts, but I think that the quality of our education is such that someone who has spent eight years in a primary school can speak, write and read Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u59	I share Mr Beckers' view that it would be very worrying if not. I have to disappoint Mr Beckers: there are large numbers of people who have spent eight years in primary school and who turn out to be low-literate or even illiterate afterwards. That is a very big problem. Princess Laurentien doesn't care so much about it for nothing. Mrs Klijnsma's budget is there for a reason. That is what is being put in place to eradicate this problem. This problem exists. That is why I insist that the distinctive criterion is not low-literacy or illiteracy, but where you have followed education. That could be indirect discrimination. I will continue my speech. Unfortunately, last week the Constitutional Review Bill was killed across the street. This means that as a Chamber, including the First Chamber, we have even more of the task of checking legislative proposals against the Constitution. I'm sure you will. So we are dealing not only with treaties but also with Article 1, the right to equal treatment. I call on all my colleagues to do this very seriously, because we have no alternative. I'm afraid the judge can't look at it. Then I come to the question of whether it is contrary to treaties. The State Secretary states that Union law, the free movement of persons, will not raise a threshold for the legislative proposal. I also think it's gonna be a problem in practice. A German or a Frenchman, or any Union citizen, who ends up in the assistance and who is then forced to learn the Dutch language, without an offer against it, will be able to claim to the courts and the State that this constitutes an obstacle to freedom of movement. The Secretary of State didn't go into that so much. Maybe she can do that in the second term. I asked whether, with retroactive effect, assistance could be reduced after six months if no progress has been made. The Secretary of State replied that the assistance cannot be reduced retroactively. It is good for the Acts to see that here. My last point concerns my biggest objection in the first term. I see, moreover, that the President is already ready to read the motion. I would very much like to call on the government to provide a guarantee that an appropriate offer will be offered to a beneficiary and that it will be able to make the progress that the government is imposing. Of course, municipalities should also be given the opportunity to make this offer. The President shall: Mr Strik, Mr Elzinga, Mr Reuten, Mr De Boer and Mr Meijer proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas this legislative proposal requires municipalities to reduce assistance in the event of a reasonable suspicion that a beneficiary does not or does not adequately control the Dutch language at reference level 1F;]] [[Whereas reduction does not take place if the person concerned makes progress in acquiring the required knowledge of the Dutch language;]] [[Whereas such progress can only be reasonably requested from the beneficiary if he is also enabled to do so;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities have the obligation to acquire knowledge of the Dutch language accompanied by an appropriate offer and to provide municipalities with a financial opportunity to do so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33975-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u60	Finally, I hope that the Chamber will recognise the reasonableness of this motion, but that it will also recognise the unreasonableness of this bill. My group is very concerned about the problems that this is going to pose, especially for welfare recipients who are unable to make that progress and who end up in a negative spiral of the threat of reduction and, if necessary, of actual reduction, financial problems and so on. Then we have only caused more problems for those people, so that they can only be less engaged in learning the language, participating and finding work. I wonder in my heart what the hell we have achieved with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u61	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply. I must say that it is good to hear that this cabinet, even though it is apparently a late calling, considers the mastery of the Dutch language to be essential. This is how I understand it at least as regards the position on the labour market. I understand that the commitment of those involved would be mandatory. The programme of action Tel along with Language, which is quite new and which has recently come to us, seems to be useful. In any case, the problem has become widespread, if not already. However, it looks like a long shot at an uncertain future, especially when it comes to the action programme. Unfortunately, the Secretary of State's story is mainly block-by-block and factual. It cannot really convince my group. The reaction lingers in the concise framework of this law. My group has to note that the essential, more political aspects have not, or hardly, been addressed. I refer in particular to the discrepancy noted with the coalition agreement. Why is there this particular law, when in fact the obligation has been in place since 1 January, as has already been observed by many? Why is there in principle no strict requirement for results? Why is a very low reference level chosen? My group believes that a minimum level of language control is essential. As far as my group is concerned, the Secretary of State is too non-committal in this respect, especially with regard to the formulation of the coalition agreement. There is an incomprehensible discrepancy. It is not acknowledged that the primary self-interest of the individual is paramount, including in terms of participation in social movements, and certainly in terms of integration. We obviously disagree with other parties on this. In practice, freedom in decentralised implementation will certainly not bring the desired result closer. Unfortunately, the conclusion cannot be different from the fact that the bill is linked to two conflicting trends. It's become a toothless compromise. It seems to have become a piece of windowdressing for long-term failing policies in the form of mainly verbal display. We do not see the added value directly. The objective is good, but the impact is less. It is doubtful whether the view of work has really come closer in this way. It is a bit like with bad apple pie: it often seems good in taste, but sometimes it is arm of substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State for answering the many questions, albeit only part of the questions have been answered and often the most relevant questions have not been answered. I came to this debate today with a positive attitude towards the legislative proposal. Unfortunately, the obligatory response of the Secretary of State has given me considerable doubts as to whether that positive attitude is still justified and whether it is such a good idea. I see this evening's debate as completely unnecessary. We have listened to a repetition, a literal repetition in many cases, of what had already been exchanged in the written preparation. What I haven't noticed at all, when I expect it from a government, is that, when it comes to something as important as language management and teaching, there is a vision that sounds like a clock. That's what this problem deserves in this house. I haven't heard anything about that. I've heard some vague plans, which are backed up by figures that aren't real figures. Some would call this air bike business. I will, as a conclusion, reconsider how to vote next week. A few hours ago, I was more convinced of the added value of this bill than I am at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna stand here for a very short time, because it's already gotten incredibly hot in here. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u64	The Warden's ready, and the Warden's gonna be there as well. Don't worry. Everything's gonna be okay. Unfortunately, Mrs Slagter is not present, but otherwise she is doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u65	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed answers. I have listened very carefully and would like to thank her. Still, I've gotten a little confused by those answers. Of course, it is no good for anyone to get into the assistance and much needs to be done to get people back out of the assistance. I warmly welcome the action programme Tel me with Language. I think this is an extremely important and special initiative and I am also pleased that the government has released 54 million for this. However, I cannot escape the impression that the Secretary of State is still clinging to two thoughts. On the one hand, she advocates customization. My group warmly welcomes that. I refer again to Article 18 (4) of the Participation Act. We discussed them during the summer and it states that stakeholders must acquire and retain knowledge and skills in order to get out of assistance. In my first term, I argued that this included mastering the Dutch language. On the other hand, with this legislative proposal, the Secretary of State once again advocates that it should be an effort obligation, even though it is necessary to take another test, otherwise the assistance will be irrevocably adjusted downwards. Suppose that effort obligation is not met and the test is not passed. Then you get pretty close to a result obligation, which makes this bill quite different from the bill Participation Act Article 18 (4). Then the customization that has been advocated before comes to a halt anyway. I fear, and I think that is the main argument, that once this bill has been made law, because of a lack of budget and because of a plethora of decentralised tasks in the municipalities, which should all be carried out, this bill will remain on the shelf and will therefore have a very high symbolism function. I am therefore afraid that I will not please the Secretary of State if I say that I will advise my group not to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u66	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the detailed answer to the questions. This is usually the case with answers: some will be satisfied and others will be less satisfied. I can say that I am very pleased with the answer to the questions, especially when I hear the Secretary of State say that the necessity and desirability of this law lies in the fact that language is a basic condition for achieving a first step towards work and working life in this country. The person concerned must then make an effort to ensure that he or she can also retain that work. At the VVD we think in terms of stimulating people, in terms of developing and developing activities, in terms of encouraging people to maximise their own capacities. It's in that law, and you can get it out. You can also get other things out of it and that may lead to a feeling of discontent. However, at least that is how we have read this law, it is intended that you can use this law to call on a human being what is to be expected of that person. The contribution we expect from that person is an effort. I also hear the Secretary of State say: we are going to steer, we are going to use this law to allow colleges of B and W to steer towards making an effort and we are going to ensure that this effort then leads to a result. That is why it is such a pity, I think, that the Secretary of State failed to do so, that the figures we are asking for are missing. Where are we now? How many welfare recipients are now in the situation that they do not have the required language skills? How many people with too little language skills are now on welfare? Where are we now? And where do we want to be in five years? On those questions, I hear the Secretary of State say she's going to monitor, but you need to be able to set up that monitoring against a departure position. However, we are missing them and I would once again call on the Secretary of State to collect the data, which every municipality undoubtedly has. Then we can see what the national situation is now, where we stand and where we want to be in five years' time. As regards the moment of introduction, I have heard the Secretary of State clearly say that she is seeking to bring the law into force on 1 July and that she will ask the Council of State for an urgent opinion. We are grateful to the Secretary of State for that. I also heard what she said to my question about culpability. The Secretary of State mentioned elements that could lead to non-applicability. Dyslexia, health reasons, a large family, children who have temporary problems, these are all circumstances that can lead to non-applicability, but those circumstances are not intended to be exhaustive. I heard the Secretary of State say that right, didn't I? I'd like to hear that confirmed. Furthermore, the Secretary of State and the Cabinet can count on a positive view from my group. I will advise my group to support this bill with all the opportunities in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State began her first term by stating that language is very important for participation in social movements, including participation in the labour market. I think that all the groups started their first deadline with that determination. For example, it formed the ESC. The CDA Group referred to this in its first term, but the SP also pointed out that 30 years ago. However, the Secretary of State does not offer any new instruments for this, since municipalities are already working on language management in a broad sense. Moreover, under the WWB or the Participation Act, the municipalities already have a duty to provide people with a provision, with a sanction, in order to help them get to work in the best possible way. If language is perceived as the biggest barrier to this, the municipality will use a facility to do so. This is now becoming a national obligation, even if other bumps may be larger. However, my group has not at all become clear as to why this national obligation needs to be put into effect. The key question for which problem this bill offers a solution has not been answered. However, on one of my questions, the Secretary of State has reiterated that the government does not have national figures on the number of people in the assistance that the Dutch language is not able to use reference 1F. However, the Secretary of State has indicated that this group consists of illiterate and low-literate people. This was a repeat of what was already discussed in the course of the preparation of this debate. The total number of low-literate and illiterate people in the Netherlands is well known. That is more than one and a half million, of whom 550,000 are illiterate or very low-literate and below the required 1F reference level. Fortunately, many of them are not dependent on the assistance, but unfortunately a significant number of them have also grown up in the Netherlands and are not at all the target groups of this law. On about ten questions to clarify the target group, I only received one answer. That was the answer to the question of whether the cut is based on 400,000 welfare benefits and whether this number is an assumption. There's no calculation at all. Whether there is a problem with the target group at all has therefore not become clear, let alone what the scale of the problem is. The only thing the Secretary of State has indicated is that it will of course be monitored when the legislative proposal is introduced and that when we evaluate this bill in a few years' time we may have a clear picture of the size of the target group and whether there was a problem that had to be resolved. It does not offer additional opportunities for municipalities to help people to the maximum. It does offer an obligation to use existing funds available to municipalities under the Participation Act in a certain way, but whether this is done properly is again a decision of the municipalities. It is up to them to judge and determine that. In my group's view, therefore, the obligation in the legislative proposal is purely symbolic, as I noted in the first period. Unfortunately, it does not help people to learn Dutch in concrete terms. That proposal does not receive the vote of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the detailed answer to the questions. In my view, one question has not been sufficiently addressed and it concerns Article 8 (7) on the possibilities for obtaining funds from stakeholders. It is unclear what that means. We are talking about people without a job, and they have to pay for it. I would like to have an explanation of that. An important point that we have highlighted in the discussion is that the municipalities must be very calculable against those involved. At the beginning of the course, where the language course has not been sufficiently completed, clear arrangements must be made as to how the improvement is to be implemented, what progress is to be made and how it is to be assessed. Then also agreements are made on the offer of the municipality. That is an important point. All in all, I will advise my group, partly thanks to the answer, to be positive about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u69	The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u70	Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to thank the spokesmen of the Chamber for the second-term contributions. I have, of course, noted who can already say yes to this bill and who can't. I should like to comment briefly on the various comments. I note that Mr Terpstra says that we all agree that speaking Dutch in the Netherlands is of national importance and that this is also the underlying idea of this bill. The implementation of the bill has been invested with the municipalities. Mr Terpstra considered that the commitment as such was a sufficient commitment to the legislative proposal, since tailor-made work remains essential. I can, of course, very much agree with that. Mrs Strik started her speech by saying that I could not convince her. I'm sorry about that, but sometimes life is like that. Mrs Strik stressed, however, that GroenLinks obviously considers it important for everyone to have mastered the language. With her, of course, the essence is also in any way that happens next. We do not share that view. It is not convinced of the way in which the municipalities can get on with the team. It considers that the instruments are insufficient. Mrs Strik also asked me about the question of the free movement of workers in the European Union. Member States are, of course, free to impose language requirements with regard to assistance. The EU Directive 2004/38 allows this. There is no need to offer language courses. is not prescribed. This is the discretionary power of municipalities to agree on efforts in consultation with those involved. In this context, too, the legislative proposal has been sufficiently tested. Mrs Strik pointed out that, of course, the First Chamber is also responsible for reviewing the Constitution. I can only confirm that. She has tabled a motion on the appropriate offer and finances for municipalities, but it will not be surprising that, bearing in mind my first term, I must discourage the motion. There are many possibilities to acquire the language. We have dealt with this in detail and in detail. The way along which belongs to the policy freedom of the municipalities in close coordination with the person in question. The municipalities have, of course, sufficient instruments for this. So I'm going to have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u71	When I hear the Secretary of State like that, I don't seem to have a lot of arguments to discourage the motion. We call on the Cabinet to ensure that municipalities offer an appropriate offer to those who need to acquire the language. The Secretary of State says that there are many possibilities and that there can always be an appropriate offer. It then states that the municipalities must be given the opportunity to do so. The Secretary of State says they have a lot of options. If she is behind that, it would be a nice thing for me if she could recommend this motion wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u72	Then it's one of two. You can read the motion in two or maybe more ways. At least I read her in such a way that Mrs. Strik c.s. I am asking for an appropriate offer and also for municipalities to be financially able to do so. I shall read the motion in such a way that Mrs Strik asks me to make additional resources available. If that is not the case, the motion is actually superfluous and I should formally discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u73	About that appropriate offer, the State Secretary says that municipalities have to provide customised services. I am concerned that this should include an appropriate provision, so that it is agreed that you need this, and that is what you will get. That's what the motion requires. It says: and to give the municipalities a financial opportunity to do so. I believe that it is more up to the municipalities and the Secretary of State to look at what municipalities need to do and whether they are indeed in a position to do so. I am not expressing myself in euros, in amounts. I am concerned that there is an opportunity for municipalities to make this appropriate offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u74	In the way we sit together, it must be crystal clear how the motion is interpreted by the cabinet. I really must discourage this motion, because Mrs Strik and the other signatories are doing the invitation to conclave with municipalities. I know that amendments cannot be dealt with here, because of course they could also have financial implications. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Mr Kok, like all of us, says that the language is, of course, a basic condition for participation. He himself welcomes the action programme Tel along with Language. I have also noted that in my term I was unable to convince Mr Kok and the PVV to be able to say yes to this bill next week. I take note of that. Mr Kok says that he thinks this bill is too non-binding. It should be clear that by submitting this commitment to people and by obliging municipalities to conclave with those concerned, there is no commitment on these two points. It's what it is. I hope that Mr Kok will be able to change his mind in the next week. The same goes for Mr De Lange, who said that he went into this debate with a positive basic attitude and that he felt that the cabinet lacked a vision of language control. That is really not the issue, because otherwise we would not be discussing it at all. Moreover, we would not provide the resources associated with Tel with Language. I therefore disagree with Mr De Lange. I hope, of course, that he too will be able to use this week to think through whether or not to support this bill. Mrs Scholten has also been very clear. She says she cannot give a positive opinion to her group. She welcomes Tel along with Taal, but she believes that a result obligation is at issue. I note that opinions on this matter are very divided in your Chamber. I'll take note of that. Mr Beckers says that it is a pity that it is not quite clear what the starting position is now, when it comes to the underlying figures. I made it clear in my first term that, of course, the municipalities have not been able to keep up with this, because that obligation is not there at all at the moment. I think that makes a lot of sense. I have promised that I will inform your Chamber and the House of Representatives of the course of events after four years. On the date of introduction, Mr Beckers said that he was happy with my challenge to see if I could make it to 1 July. Of course, I am well aware of that, but I have already said in my first term that no one has been kept to the impossible, that of course I do not want to maltrate the municipalities, our fellow governments, and that it is good that you allow them an introduction period. I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u75	That "I do my best" sounds kinder again, but the remark "no one is kept to the impossible" brought me here to the microphone. I hope that is not the starting point of the Secretary of State. I hope that she will make her point of departure: I am going to realize that and I am going to make sure that this law enters into force on 1 July. Unhopefully, there may still be a bump here or there that can't be foreseen now and that brings us to another final conclusion, but that's not what we're assuming, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u76	I think Mr Beckers and I are saying the same thing. I am sure that Mr Beckers also wants to deal well with municipalities, because that is who we are. We always do that with fellow governments. We just need to see if that fits in with time. There was another question from Mr Beckers about whether or not to be exhaustive. I have mentioned a number of examples in the reply. That is not exhaustive in that sense; that is also clear. Municipalities, of course, always keep policy freedom when coloring the position of the people knocking on their door. Mr Elzinga said that he too did not see the added value of this law, as did a number of other spokesmen. I take note of that. Mr Elzinga once again asked about the size of the target group. I have just said something about it to Mr Beckers. We have assumed that around 400 benefits will no longer have to be paid and that this will provide a space of 5 million. However, that is an assumption, so I am very equestrian in that too. Last but not least, I come to Mr Van Zandbrink, who has asked another question about the acquisition of funds and this target group. This is also customized every time. Each time a municipality looks at how a person sits in the context of what else he can enter. It is good that Mr Van Zandbrink has brought that to the attention once again. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-10-eerstekamer-9.u77	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on this bill and on the motion.
