ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u1	According to the schedule, I should have given the floor to Mr Van Veen for his question to the Minister for Finance, but something is going wrong. The Minister of Finance is still on his way to the Chamber. Fortunately, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is already present, so we are changing the order of the two questions. I give the floor to Mrs Hachchi of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Rules on arms exports should prevent Dutch arms and defence equipment from getting into the wrong hands, being used against civilians or being used to violate human rights. These are activities which, of course, the Netherlands strongly condemns, as well as the escalating violence in Israel and the Palestinian territories. The Netherlands is right to seek the balance between Israel's right to security and the need for an independent, democratic Palestinian state that can live peacefully together. The Netherlands has rightly imposed strict restrictions on arms exports to the area. How is it possible that dozens of Dutch dogs that have been bred and selected to bite themselves into people are delivered to the Israeli army? This concerns dogs that are used in our own National Police and in the Defense Department as a means of violence, similar to the baton, pepper spray and the firearm. Something's wrong here. This is a gap in the Dutch rules on arms exports that needs to be closed quickly. The Netherlands has a great responsibility to act if a situation does not correspond to human rights policy, arms export restrictions and the government's views on the situation in a country. My only question to the Minister is: will she intervene and will the export of Dutch dogs to the Israeli army be stopped immediately, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Hachchi for her question. As it has just done, the cabinet, of course, condemns the inflammable violence in Israel and the Palestinian territories. Like Mrs Hachchi, we are very concerned about this. That is the context in which we need to see Mrs Hachchi's question. I read the messages, too. They give me every reason to look into this subject further. I would like to describe the current situation and then indicate what steps I am going to take. I assume, moreover, that the companies involved in this debate will follow closely. First of all, it is clear that this simply falls under the rules that the Netherlands has for corporate social responsibility. The Netherlands is following the OECD guidelines. These say: watch out, companies, and see if there are any risks of human rights violations surrounding the products you supply. I don't know if those companies are aware of that. The Ministry will contact the companies and discuss these guidelines with them. At least that's what we're gonna do. I have, of course, looked at how, within the existing frameworks for the export of strategic goods and dual-use goods, service dogs are understood or not. I have to say that they are not covered by the rules on strategic goods nor by the dual-use regulations. This is not surprising, because everyone can imagine that in many cases when dogs go from the Netherlands to another country, this happens with the best intentions. An example are the search dogs that were used to look for survivors after the earthquake in Nepal. It may also be that blind guide dogs are exported. It is not just dogs that can be used as police dogs; it is wider. Dogs are carried out for good reasons. However, they are not included in the existing legal frameworks. I would not accept that. I'm going to do the following, besides having a conversation with those companies. I will examine whether it is feasible to draw up a national regulation under the dual-use regulation. That would be about this type of dog. That is quite complicated, given that we also want to continue exporting tracking dogs and guide dogs. There are a few questions, starting legally. How does this relate to our commitment to EU harmonisation? What about the feasibility? Does it set a precedent? What about police horses? We need to get to the bottom of that. That's one package. I would also like to bring this to the EU's COARM meeting in order to identify whether other EU Member States are identifying similar issues and, if so, whether we can do something about them jointly. Those are the routes I'd like to deactivate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u4	Service dogs are not mentioned in the law as service weapons or ammunition. The dogs are not on the European list of dual-use goods subject to export restrictions, as the Minister himself states. But the Netherlands has an international responsibility to uphold human rights principles under arms export policy. I hear the Minister clearly saying that she will not accept the legal frameworks. Especially in view of the situation we are talking about today, we are talking about service dogs delivered to Israel, and it is important that the Minister looks at what she can do to adapt the frameworks. Let me be very clear, D66 believes that these rules need to be adapted. If the Minister says she's going to investigate it, I'd like to give her at least to check whether this also applies to other countries besides Israel. I can imagine that the Netherlands also provides service dogs elsewhere. Can the Minister take this into account in her investigation? It is fine that she talks to the entrepreneurs, but only research is not enough. I would like to hear from the Minister that she is going to amend the rules and inform the Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm gonna find out if it's feasible to change the rules. The stakes are the same, but I would like to take stock of all the legal issues and also look at the feasibility. I will also check whether there are deliveries to other countries. This is, of course, the time to carry out a thorough investigation of the entire domain. I would like to say to Mrs Hachchi that I will report to the Chamber on this at the next opportunity. That will probably be in a letter I will write in anticipation of the next general consultation Export strategic goods. This usually takes place at the end of the calendar year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u6	With these answers, I can only thank the Minister. I say to her that we will keep her focused on arms exports policy, as she will have noticed. I look forward to the letter with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u7	In my opinion this is typically a case of barking dogs not biting, as we often see in the D66 group. Isn't the minister starting on the wrong side of the line? Before you turn a well-run and well-organized company in the Netherlands on certain exports, shouldn't you just keep the dogs on the leash and appeal to the Israeli leaders on caustic dogs in case of disorder? At the same time, shouldn't the Palestinian leaders be drawn on knives against innocent Israeli citizens? Isn't that the path that the cabinet should follow instead of starting at the back, without knowing if there's a barking dog, a biting dog or a dog that doesn't do anything at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u8	Of course, we are talking to both the Israeli and Palestinian authorities. We also deliver that message, and we continue to do so. Of course, we want to incorporate measures as far as possible into existing legislation. We also want to give businesses the opportunity to take note not only of the legislation but also of the OECD directives. This overall package means that we can have companies exported with confidence, and we are also keen where they may be violating the rules that we have drawn up in cooperation with the Chamber. I would therefore ask Mr Teeven to step back for a moment, and he is already doing so and to give him the confidence that we are dealing with this in a good way. After all, I know that these concerns are widely shared in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u9	I'm a little stunned about the coverage. I'm just looking at the facts. This company has been doing this for 23 years, with dozens of dogs a year, 95% of which are detective dogs. They have a good nose and track things down. They do good work in the fight against terrorism and crime and can track down people, explosives or narcotics. Those are all wonderful things, aren't they? We're not gonna throw the kid away with the bathwater, are we? This kind of initiative must be supported, mustn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is a very bad idea to throw away a child with the bath water; we are not going to do that either. You have also heard me say that this is not a simple matter, because a large part of the dogs, whether they are from these companies or others, are being used for objectives that we all support. You mentioned a number of objectives. I myself called the search for survivors after an earthquake. You would not want to make that unnecessarily difficult, but of course we will also check the facts and check how the description in that article relates to existing legislation and whether adaptation is necessary and feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u11	Where dogs are used for noble purposes, such as saving people and detecting explosives, you cannot be against that of course. That's all legitimate. If the Netherlands plays a role in this, there is no problem. However, I refer to yesterday's interview in the NRC, in which a former Israeli soldier tells him what to do with those dogs. This shows that dogs can also be part of a suppression device that fits with an occupation that has been taking place for decades. This occupation is, of course, at the heart of the problem. We are not going to solve that with those dogs, but where those dogs are being used as part of a suppression device, this must be combated. I ask the Minister to support the previous Dutch position that the Netherlands, not without obligation through OECD standards, but the Netherlands itself, the government, is imposing restrictions on equipment. I am referring, for example, to equipment that restricts access to the Internet or heat-seeking equipment that is also dual use and is also used for charities, but which in practice amounts to suppressing people. That may be the issue here, and the Dutch Government must go along with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u12	For the sake of clarity, I think I have indicated that, within the framework of the dual-use regulation, I am going to use certain goods for good, but I am also going to look at something that is feasible, given the concerns in this Chamber and in the government about the reports we read yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u13	I find this a painful discussion. I was lucky enough to work for ten years in the dogs' brigade of the police in Rotterdam-Rijnmond. I know what a police dog can and can't do. Police dogs or dogs that are going to be trained as police dogs are in very good hands in Israel. Israel is a democracy, the only democracy, in the Middle East. I can't understand why the Minister is going to make time to investigate this kind of nonsense. I think that's really ridiculous. In the Netherlands, which has so many problems, the Minister will investigate whether delivering police dogs to Israel is contrary to the law. I think that's really ridiculous. I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u14	I don't share that perception. I think this is precisely a matter of care. We see this care throughout the export policy on dual-use goods and strategic goods. The reports that we have read in the newspaper do not detract from the positive experiences that Mr Bontes himself has with the commitment of police dogs for the good, to protect people. We can, of course, also observe these positive experiences ourselves. This is always the case in the Netherlands, but the reports are worrying and have led me to examine the feasibility of measures. In doing so, I will keep an eye on the broad interests that exist. I think I have just said enough about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u15	That's what the Minister's right to say. I believe that the core is precisely in those objectives. All the good things dogs do, is fine, but the fact that this has been happening for 23 years should of course not be a reason to accept this, especially after what we have seen on television over the last few days and read in pieces. So I encourage the Minister to get to work on this quickly. I would, however, like to ask her what opportunity she sees before she has completed her investigation. I do not know what exports may be planned in the near future. The Minister speaks here on the basis of her responsibility as Minister of Trade, including trade in dual-use goods. However, there is also such a thing as discouragement policy. To go back to the objectives: where this contributes to maintaining the occupation and illegal settlements, the Dutch government always has a duty to engage with companies and to point out to them that they should not contribute to that occupation in any way. So is the Minister prepared to start that discussion immediately and to remind the company in question of that responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u16	That's me. We will. We will therefore continue to explain the OECD guidelines. Moreover, I believe that companies will follow this debate closely and have read the messages. I can imagine that they also need to discuss this issue with us. We'll do that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u17	I welcome the fact that the Minister has indicated that she wants to start work on this in the short term and that she wants to carry out an investigation. However, I am not reassured. If we look at the overall picture, of course we can see that this conflict has been going on for years. The UN envoy recently said that what is taking place there is humiliating, inhuman and illegal. I therefore support the Minister's call for that to be investigated, but I would urge her to make this urgent. We should stop every day that goes by when a dog is used to violate human rights in that area. We are not reassured that we should not wait until the end of the year before we start a journey. We would like to call on the Minister to get right to work on this today and to put an end to these abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u18	I believe that I have already promised Mrs Hachchi that I will start that investigation soon. I think we should do that carefully. It must also be sustainable and result in results. That's what I'm gonna do. I will report on this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u19	Can I say that I think it is awesome that we are talking about dogs at a time when Israelis are being stabbed to death? I would like to make one appeal to the Minister. That is to ask him, when the Minister or the Cabinet talks with the so-called President Abbas next Thursday, to actively call on him to stop the violence and call for violence against Palestinians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u20	We are, of course, talking about the coverage of dogs in the context of the greater conflict. This Thursday we will indeed have a visit from President Abbas. It was all our intention to discuss the situation. The Netherlands constantly calls for de-escalation. I think there is no difference of opinion or understanding between Mr Voordewind and myself about the importance of de-escalation. We will also seize this conversation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
