ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I call Mr Taverne, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. The reason we are standing here is that the VVD Group felt it important to speak today with the Foreign Minister about the proposed amendment to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. In itself this may not be a world-shattering change, but nevertheless it is a change that is important enough to have a brief debate on it in the Chamber. What is in store is a change in the preamble. The VVD has traditionally been a party with a high regard for the rule of law and the rule of law and is internationalist in nature. The VVD Group considers international human rights to be of the utmost importance, including the rights enshrined in the ECHR. The VVD Group also believes that the rights in this Treaty deserve proper protection, including against erosion. For this reason, the VVD Group has been following developments on international human rights with great interest in recent years, as well as its application by the European Court for the Protection of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It should be noted that in recent years there has been an increasing degree of broad and broader interpretation of the rights enshrined in the ECHR. This is not a remarkable development in itself, but it has led to a debate in a number of countries on the importance, value of human rights and their interpretation by the European Court of Justice. This is particularly important because it may undermine the support for these important rights. In the United Kingdom, this debate is very intense, even in such a way that, two years ago, the English Government, through the English Minister for the Interior, Mrs May, indicated that, if the Court continued to make certain judgments, such as those on the right to vote for detainees, the support for the ECHR in the United Kingdom would be put under pressure. Later on, Prime Minister Cameron repeated this by saying that, if the European Court were to continue on this basis, the United Kingdom might have to consider whether it wanted to be a party to the European Treaty any longer. That is quite a lot, especially since this criticism does not come from the first. This is the oldest democracy we know, at least in the more modern era. If the criticism sounds in this way, I think that is an important reason for thinking about how we can possibly do something about it. Today we are discussing the approval law which accords with the amendment of the preamble. That preamble will include the doctrine of margin of appreciation introduced by the Court itself about 40 years ago. On that basis, the Court may take into account the circumstances in the country against which it delivers a ruling. The VVD considers it very important that this be included in the preamble because that margin of appreciation can contribute to the careful and precise consideration of national circumstances. In this way, a good verdict can follow, which is sufficiently supported by the country against which the ruling was given. On the other hand, the practice of so-called functioning erga omnes, which in short means that a ruling by the Court against England also works in practice in other countries. The Netherlands is an important example of this and wants to lead the way. If a ruling has been made against one of the Member States of the ECHR, the Netherlands shall consider whether that ruling also applies to the Netherlands in any way and whether it may already be able to do so. That speaks for the Netherlands. This shows once again how important our country and our government consider European human rights and the judgments of the Court of Justice to be. However, there is also a contradiction with what is now being proposed, at least with what is now being codified. On the one hand, the margin of appreciation to be codified wishes to emphasise once again that the Court has the freedom and scope to take account of national circumstances. On the other hand, the practice in the Netherlands, in addition to that in a number of other countries, prevents the Dutch circumstances from being taken into account if, through the "erga omnes" effect, we make a ruling by the Court against another Member State more or less applicable to our own country. Firstly, the Minister's VVD Group would like to know how he appreciates and assesses this possible contradiction, but also how the doctrine of margin of appreciation can be brought into line with the "erga omnes" effect and vice versa. Depending on the Minister's response, the VVD Group is looking forward to what could possibly be done in the Council of Europe. Finally, there is something else in the proposal before us, namely the increase in the retirement age of judges of the Court from 70 to 74 years. Now the VVD is always very much in favour of long and hard work. However, after I have read the note on the report carefully, my group has difficulty in fully understanding what exactly it is intended to do. As we understand it, this increase would be necessary because a judge appointed at the age of 65 cannot serve to the full the nine-year term of a judge of the Court. I can imagine that a practical solution would then be to appoint someone a little earlier, rather than to make room on the other side. I would like to hear a more detailed explanation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u3	Do I hear the VVD now propose that the Strasbourg rulings should no longer be binding on all 47 Member States, think of the Salduz judgment, but only make Member States binding on Member States and thus go back a few decades in the way the ECHR was designed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u4	That is not what Mr Omtzig is proposing to me, but I find Mr Omtzig's suggestion and idea very interesting in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u5	It was a question!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u6	Not from the point of view of wanting to go back in time, quite the contrary, but from the thought that you, when you... I repeat that there is no denying that in recent years there has been increasing criticism of the Court and of judgments of the Court. Nor can it be denied that it is serious, as I have just said, that the potential support for the judgments of the Court and, consequently, the support for the rights enshrined in the ECHR are under pressure. Hence my question to the Minister. It is difficult to precisely fill in the margin of appreciation when you then declare a ruling applicable to all Member States. At the very least, the two of them have a hard time getting together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u7	I notice there's another test balloon being launched. That's not gonna fly, because that's gonna fill up the secretary's fine ass. If we had a Minister of Justice, he'd be in on it. After four years of doubt, the VVD simply accepts the direct effect of the ECHR with this input. That is, in itself, some gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u8	The appreciation of what I have just said, of course, is a matter for Mr Omtzigt. The VVD has never called into question the direct effect of statements, but considers the importance of European and international human rights to be so great that it is our expensive duty to guard against their erosion and thus to undermine their support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u9	The SP also hopes that the Minister will not go along with Mr Taverne's plea, but I have a question on another point. We are concerned, among other things, about the workload of the Court and the backlogs in this Chamber, which is also happening in the Upper Chamber and in many other places. Protocol 14 tried to do something about it. That's a limited success. Now we have protocol 15, which, in addition to a number of other issues, also deals with the workload. Mr Taverne has tabled an own-initiative proposal in this Chamber, which we are going to discuss. In doing so, he wants to make it impossible for the Dutch court to review laws against international treaties, such as the ECHR. Can Mr Taverne assess the impact of this on the workload at the European Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u10	Now you ask me for a rather technical assessment. So I don't want to risk it entirely. I can imagine that this workload would increase, but it should also be noted that the workload has already fallen enormously. At least, a very large part of the caseload has already been removed. In order to use that ugly Dutch word, therefore, it seems possible to make an impact on effectiveness. However, I do not think that this is the most important consideration of the proposal I have made to which Mr Van Nispen refers. I would therefore not like to allow such a practical comment to stand in the way of the more fundamental point I wish to make with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u11	The SP can't agree with that bill at all. We are going to talk about this in detail, but this is interesting in the context of this debate. If Mr Taverne insists on his proposal that the Dutch judge should no longer judge the ECHR, among other things, you will be through your national remedies in the Netherlands very quickly. They'll be exhausted. Then people may go directly to the European Court of Human Rights, in Strasbourg. This requirement of admissibility will no longer apply, because there will be no appeal against it in the Netherlands. I will also ask the Minister this question later, but I would nevertheless like to suggest to Mr Taverne that this be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u12	I understand Mr Van Nispen's point and he raises an important point in itself, but I repeat that I do not think that this should hinder the answer to the more fundamental question about the passage of international law. However, I too look forward with interest to the answer to the question which Mr Van Nispen is apparently going to put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u13	I have listened with interest to this somewhat contemplative college of Mr Taverne. There were many questions and indeed reflections, but this discussion began about four years ago, sparked by the predecessor of Mr Taverne, Mr Dijkhoff, who said at the time that a bunch of politicians were in toga in Strasbourg, that something had to be done about it, that we had to set frameworks, that this had to be contained and that, in my opinion, was the claim that the Court should be restricted. That didn't happen. It remains with a reference to something that has existed for 40 years, that margin of appreciation; that's it. I miss the VVD's conclusion about this whole process. Maybe we get to hear it in the second term, but does this mean that the VVD is now simply accepting that all the kettle music we heard four years ago has led to nothing? Or is there going to be a hard conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u14	The debate has certainly led to something, including the amendment of the preamble that we are discussing today. That is not without importance, because it has now been established that this margin is there. We knew that. This is particularly important because the VVD certainly hopes that this margin will be filled in more precisely, which is also important in view of the importance, I believe, shared by a large number of parties in this House, of the rights in the ECHR. I say once again that this is ultimately in the interests of human rights protection based on the ECHR. So I would now like to go with Mr Servaes if he says that it did not come out entirely. No, but Mr Servaes also knows that you'll never get what you want. The VVD Group believes that what is happening now is important. My group also believes, however, that we should once again highlight the need for this margin of appreciation to be used properly. There is already a development in this direction, but it can always be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u15	I'm still missing the conclusion, but I think I can hear him. In my opinion, Mr Taverne says: we have tried and we have not succeeded. The cabinet says very clearly: there is no mention of enlargement in any way. So Mr Taverne is satisfied with the explanation given by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u16	I am not just here to exchange views with my colleagues, but in particular to get answers to the questions I have put to the cabinet, which is represented by the Foreign Minister. The VVD will of course always agree with the majority opinion in the Chamber. The VVD has never been against the ECHR or the judgments, but the VVD believes that we have an expensive duty here to ensure that there is support for those judgments of the Court, and thus for the rights enshrined in the Treaty. I think there is a debate on this, not only in the Netherlands, but also outside the UK, for example. Mr Servaes cannot have escaped this either. At the moment, he tells me that he does not seem to be of the opinion, but then he ignores the debate in the United Kingdom. For this reason, I think it is important that we once again highlight the fact that this margin exists and that it should be properly applied. I am curious to see how the "erga omnes" effect is brought into line with this principle. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u17	Does the VVD bury the hatchet on the ECHR and the European Court because of the text in the preamble? Let me get this straight. If that's the case, it's cleared up. Mr Taverne just needs to nod in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u18	The VVD will continue to work for the correct implementation of European human rights, the use of margin of appreciation and the continued consideration of national circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mr Taverne will not blame me for taking that as being buried by the VVD group of the hatchet. I commend that group for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u20	Mr Schouw chooses his own word.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr. Chairman. Most treaties leave our Parliament with tacit approval. That today we are considering Protocol No. 15 amending the ECHR is therefore special. I thank Mr Taverne for the initiative, because without it we might not have talked about it today. The important announcement by the VVD Group alone, the whole of the VVD group, I assume, is buried, makes this a significant debate, also in view of history. That is what is happening under your leadership, Mr President, and you are witnessing this historic moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u22	Everything is in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u23	As Mr Schouw said that he himself chooses his words, I would not like him to put his words in my mouth or the entire VVD group. For the record, the VVD remains committed to a more precise interpretation of the margin of appreciation and thus to increasing the support for judgments of the Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u24	Please continue, Mr Schouw.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u25	Of course, I have taken note of that. But Mr Taverne should not blame me for translating that somewhat politically, and for noticing that the clap of arms that used to sound like the VVD has disappeared, for which I congratulate him. What's it about today? Among other things, the definition in the preamble to the Treaty of the margin of appreciation and the threshold of admissibility. On both points, the D66 Group would like to ask a few questions. The European Court regularly faces a difficult task. On the one hand, it wants to safeguard the rights of the Treaty and, on the other hand, it has to do with traditions, customs and legal systems which have different views on the scope of those rights. What is completely normal in the Netherlands can be completely unthinkable for a Pole. It is a good thing that a doctrine has been developed for this, the margin of appreciation, that is, the policy space that a state receives from the Court. That sometimes remains a natural cord dance, an exercise in balance for advanced people. But the Court is particularly successful in this respect. My group therefore particularly wishes to confirm to the Minister that the codification of subsidiarity and the margin of appreciation does not affect the interpretation given by the Court. Not now, and not in the future, so that the most appropriate scope can always be chosen and the cabinet informs the Chamber itself of the first signals it receives that it would be different. Please confirm from the Minister on this point. In order to be admissible before the Court in order to lodge a complaint, the applicant must have exhausted all national remedies. An exception has been made in practice: this does not apply if a remedy is not effective. But that exception is not provided for in the Treaty. What is laid down in it, but is now deleted, is the phrase in Article 35 (3) (b): the requirement of substantial disadvantage is narrowed. Because without a substantial disadvantage, there is no judicial procedure with the ECHR, unless the case has not been properly dealt with by a national court. How do these two exceptions relate to each other? Does the deletion of the phrase on the course of justice in a national court have any effect on the practice arising under the main rule that only effective remedies have been exhausted? As far as the 74 years are concerned, I actually have the same enlightening questions as Mr Taverne so excellently asked. What is the problem to be solved here? What rational is behind a nine-year term of office?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. In front of us is Protocol No. 15 which is really much less controversial than Protocol No. 14. It was a agony to accept it; we also have Protocol No. 14a had. The main "subsidiarity" and "margin of appreciation" are set out in the preamble. The CDA Group is very much in favour of this. I would remind you of the Çörüz/Omtzit motion. Sometimes we see cases where the Court is very close to the Member States. I mention the example that Mr Knops presented to the government in Parliamentary questions (2014Z22508). These are Somali pirates arrested by the French Navy in an anti-piracy mission under the UN flag. In addition, many French soldiers fall into the water and one of the hostages is shot. All hostages are taken alive; they are imprisoned and transported from Somalia to France. Once they have arrived in France, it will take three days for them to be arraigned to the court commissioner for remand. That is indeed a violation of the requirement to bring people to justice as quickly as possible, but we believe that the imposition of compensation amounting to €5,000 that is more than a Somali earns on average in his entire life is going a little far. Then it can be said: this is a court ruling and why should you criticize it as a politician? The whole idea of the ECHR is that it is a treaty that you conclude with 47 Member States. In the Netherlands you have the right and if you do not like the right, you can submit an initiative law in the Lower House. Almost everyone I look at here likes to file own-initiative laws. And rightly so, but that's not possible with the ECHR. That is why it is good to discuss how far that margin of appreciation goes. The government rightly writes that the margin is zero in the cases where it is right to live and that it may be somewhat larger in Protocol No. 1, on the right of ownership. There must be a fundamental margin before you get to the ECHR, even if it is only because this is a Court with only 47 judges, which of course cannot solve every little thing in this world. For that, the waiting list of tens of thousands of cases is too long. It is good that subsidiarity is laid down. Countries themselves are responsible for resolving this problem and the Court in Strasbourg is only in second line; otherwise we should have a much larger institution. The main problem of the Court is the delays. This is painful in the case of human rights violations. Sometimes people are in prison for ten years before their case is brought before the Court and the substance of the matter is examined as to whether they have been rightly convicted. There is real pain there, because if the final judgment is that they do not belong in prison, they have been there for ten years. How can we ensure that these delays are really eliminated so that normal treatment periods of one or two years are created and treatment periods of seven to eight years will no longer be considered normal? When will the Court, for example, Protocol No. 14 use? It stipulates that the Small Chamber can be reduced from seven to five judges, creating more Small Chambers and thus more capacity to speak justice. Will the Netherlands Protocol No. 16 ratification? This was partly a Dutch idea: applying for preliminary advice. This has been opened together with Protocol No. 15. What are the government's plans? My group thinks it makes sense to go from 70 years to 74 years. After all, you do not go to 74 years, but to a maximum age of 65 years on taking up employment. You must not be older than 65 years and this means that you may be able to sit up to 74 years. Most people won't make it, because few people are 65 years old when they submit that application. There is therefore no automatic discharge at 74 years; the limit is much lower. By Protocol No. We need many new judges this year. There is another problem now, namely that many judges resign at the same time. These are all Presidents of the Small Chamber, including the President of the Court. You used to get two six-year terms, now only one of nine years. Now suddenly many judges disappear from the Court and with that a lot of memory disappears. Will the Minister make an effort to ensure that memory does not disappear from the Court as quickly as possible? If someone becomes President of the Court, should a longer period not be allowed? After all, you usually become President of the Court after seven or eight years in the Court. Then it makes sense that you will be a few years before you say goodbye. While we are here in the framework of the Council of Europe, I am happy to do so, and the President is, in another role, also a Member of the Parliamentary Assembly, I would like to ask two more questions. The first question is about the Storimans case. The Netherlands has been called in as a witness. In what way does the Netherlands intervene? The war in Georgia/Russia was a long time ago. This case was opened in 2010 and little progress has been made. The verdict is still pending. In 2013, the ruling was due to be delivered in 2014. It is now 2015 and it could be 2017 or 2018. This is just an example of a statement that is taking far too long. What means are at the disposal of the government to ensure that the twelve Georgian victims, the Israeli journalist and, of course, Mr Storimans and his relatives are justiced? The second question is about MH17. In the Council of Europe, I asked the Council of Ministers whether they all believe that Minsk II means that there should be no amnesty for the perpetrators of the attack on MH17. You know, of course, why we are putting the question there. If the answer is 'yes', that means that all countries have said it, so unanimity, including Ukraine and Russia and including the Netherlands, the UK and Germany, all parties to the Minsk Protocol. It is essential for the CDA to know that no one will say: there is amnesty, we do not need to have the perpetrators of the attack on MH17. Does the Dutch Government intend to promote the prompt response to this question, i.e. within the normal two to three months period, and that the answer should also explicitly state whether the answer has been adopted unanimously or by majority? Then we also know whether Russia believes that the perpetrators should be caught.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mr. Chairman. The importance of safeguarding human rights is particularly important, and we cannot stress that enough. The ECHR has been in operation since 1953 and since 1959, fortunately, we have a European Court of Human Rights, which can make final and binding rulings on complaints about human rights violations. This is not only important for countries that receive many complaints, such as Russia, Turkey and Italy. For the Netherlands, too, this Court has had some significance. As far as my group is concerned, the European Court of Human Rights is the critic of power, and that is what the Court should, above all, remain. But for years there has been a large pile of complaints about possible violations of human rights waiting for substantive treatment, and that is a problem. The SP shares the government's concerns about this disadvantage and the duration of the proceedings as a result. Protocol No 15 which we are discussing today makes a number of procedural changes to the ECHR, among other things. This should partly contribute to solving the problems. The objectives are good, namely to strengthen the authority of the European Court of Human Rights, to increase the effectiveness of judgments and to streamline the complaint procedure. I still have a few questions. The protocol also ensures that the famous margin of appreciation, i.e. the margin of discretion of the Member States, is included in the preamble to the ECHR. There are sometimes noises to advocate more room for Member States, including in response to difficult judgments by critical judges. According to the Government, the inclusion of this margin of appreciation in the Treaty can be seen as a codification. The scope of the concept is not affected. The government also agrees with the way in which the Court deals with this doctrine. That is what the government explicitly asks in response to questions from the Chamber. That has reassured my group. Another point is the time limit for lodging a complaint. The SP asked in its preparation whether shortening the deadline could not cause problems for the complainants. From now on, they will have to do so within four months instead of six months. Now I understand that there are faster means of communication nowadays, but they are not suddenly two months faster than they used to be. Let's be honest about that. So I asked for an explanation. On what basis was it chosen to shorten that period by two months? Can there be any problems? I do not expect that directly, but I can imagine that certain complaints are so complicated and complicated that this shorter period could lead to problems. That is why my group has asked the question whether there is any possibility of making a complaint pro forma. I do not think that question has been answered clearly. I mean by pro-forma submission that the complaint is notified within the right time limit, but is subsequently supplemented by the complainant's substantive arguments and grievances. Can we do this on the basis of the treaty? Is shortening the deadline leading to problems or will it be easy? I'm curious to see the Minister's assessment. I have already asked my question about Mr Taverne's own-initiative proposal in an interruption, but I also ask the Minister. Is the condition that national remedies must first be exhausted? Of course, we are going to discuss Mr Taverne's own-initiative proposal. He makes it impossible for the Dutch court to judge laws by international treaties. My group was now informed by experts at a meeting attended by a colleague of Mr Taverne that this would remove the threshold of admissibility. My group estimates that this will lead to an influx of cases at the European Court of Human Rights, as it will no longer be possible to complain about the ECHR in the Netherlands. What's the Minister's assessment? I like to hear it, also because I already think this is relevant. We should not move this point forward until the initiative proposal is discussed. After all, we are talking about the European Court of Human Rights and the condition that national remedies must be exhausted. Does the Minister share the fear on this point? If I see correctly, the protocol we are discussing today makes a modest contribution to reducing the workload and delays. This raises the question of whether we can no longer deal with cases within an acceptable time limit. For example, we could think of tackling frequent complaints. It is important to realise that 60% of complaints come from only five countries, while most violations are committed by almost the same countries. Turkey and Russia are frontrunners in the negative. What is the government doing to tackle the problem at source, which means that the major human rights criminals must adapt their legislation and be called upon to do so if they fail? Does the Dutch Government do that enough? Like Mr Schouw, I have a question about the admissibility threshold. A complaint by a complainant with a minor disadvantage can now be dismissed and therefore declared inadmissible, even if the national court has not properly dealt with the case. This seems to me to be debatable and perhaps the wrong message. Surely the ECHR is there to finger national judges or countries if they do not comply with the ECHR, even if it is a relatively minor violation of human rights? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Finally, I would like to make a few comments on the budget of the ECHR. There are 47 States Parties to the ECHR. The total budget for the European Court of Human Rights amounted to almost €70 million in 2014. For comparison, the Court of Justice of the European Union has more than five times as much each year. Anyway, back to the ECHR. The average budget allocated per country is less than 2 million. I don't think that's an amount of money to kick back. The differences are also considerable for each country. The SP would welcome a small transfer of funds from the European Union to the Council of Europe and its associated bodies, including the Court. The European Union would not even stand out, while the Council of Europe and the Court of Justice would have been greatly helped. National contributions should also be slightly adjusted. Are there still Member States in the Council of Europe that contribute less annually than the amount corresponding to the salary of their own judges at that Court? That would be an undesirable situation. Does the Minister share the view of the SP that this should be looked at again? Finally, as far as my group is concerned, the European Court of Human Rights is the critic of power. And that's what it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg ruled on a case brought by a transgender man against the Turkish state. According to Turkish legislation, he should be forced to be sterilized. The Court ruled that Turkey had thereby violated the right to respect for private life and therefore had to amend the legislation in question. That is an important statement, for the man in question and for the LGBT community, who is in the process of obtaining equal rights everywhere. This ruling illustrates the role of the Court in monitoring and strengthening the European community of values. That's what it's about in the end. The European Convention on Human Rights is the basis on which the Court can do its important work. It is precisely at a time when the European community of values is under pressure, from outside, but unfortunately sometimes also from within, that we must be extremely careful about this foundation. We must give a firm counterweight to attempts to undermine or relativise the jurisdiction of the Court. It is precisely at this time that we must stand for the international legal order, as we are asked to do in Article 90 of the Constitution. The purpose of the present amendment to the ECHR is two things. Firstly, there are a number of procedural changes, so that the Court is more able to cope with the increased workload. Secondly, it is not more, but not less, about naming the so-called'margin of appreciation'. Let me start with the first point. It is, of course, essential that the Court be streamlined and that the backlogs be eliminated. The Court must not perish from its own success. The Minister states in the note following the report that the amendments to the Protocol are part of a broader package of measures to achieve this. Can the Minister state what the current situation is with regard to the workload and delays of the Court? What impact has the other measures already had? What impact does the Minister expect from the amendments contained in the Protocol? Then I get to the margin of appreciation. We have just seen in the little debate on the interruption that nothing has come of the desire to broaden that margin, of the plea to give political guidance to independent judges and of the proposal to restrict the Court. I note that not so much triumphant, but with great satisfaction. I am pleased that the cabinet, supported by the excellent Franken c.s motion. (32735, C), has been committed not to undermine the independence of the Court but to firmly anchor it. I am pleased that the cabinet has succeeded in this. Today, I am pleased to note that a very large majority of the House is showing its support for this idea and its outcome. I do have a question about that margin of appreciation. In my group's view, fundamental human rights, such as the right to life and the prohibition of torture, cannot at all afford interpretation or national policy freedom. I ask the Cabinet to confirm that it shares that view. Does the Cabinet consider that this principle is sufficiently explicitly laid down in the amended Treaty or in its explanatory memorandum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u29	I hear Mr Servaes say that he also considers it important that the rights laid down in the European Treaty should not be undermined. He then says that he is pleased that the margin of appreciation is not filled in more widely. The Court itself introduced the doctrine of margin of appreciation, with the aim of making better-behaved judgments and thus gaining greater support. How, then, can Mr Servaes be pleased that this instrument can fortunately not be used more widely? That is contrary to his intention that he does not want those rights to be undermined.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u30	We have already reflected on the proposals made by the VVD Group four years ago in the interrupting debate just now, when we were exactly the other way round. These proposals included giving more power to the Committee of Ministers versus the independent judges and setting political frameworks for the Court's rulings. My observation is that none of these proposals have been made, apart from a small political discussion in some of the 49 Member States. The phrase "they drank a glass, they did a puddle, and everything remained as it was" could apply here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u31	I hear Mr Servaes say this. I also hear he's happy that nothing else happened. However, to go hink-step-jumping to the proposal to safeguard a number of rights from policy influence, including the right to life...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u32	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u33	How does Mr Servaes then judge abortion, for example? That seems to me to be a matter of life or death. This is an extremely political matter. Does Mr Servaes believe that the European Court of Human Rights should now allow abortion in all states of the Treaty? I am therefore looking forward to the discussion that will be held by the Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u34	I do not know if this is the time to start a debate on abortion in a second round of interruptions. My party's views on this are well known. I don't think they differ a lot from those of the VVD. I do not think it is the intention to start this discussion. The right as laid down in Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty, I have referred to torture and the right to life, I believe, has always been safeguarded, precisely in the way in which the Court itself has always done so. I am now asking for confirmation, now that the margin of appreciation is also explicitly mentioned in the preamble to the Treaty. The principle that these two fundamental rights cannot in any way be compromised at national level is still valid? That's my question. I would like to have the debate on abortion at another time with Mr Taverne; I do not think this is the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u35	A short third remark. Mr Servaes needs a long answer to say that abortion, for example, can be considered differently, not only in the Netherlands, but also in the Member States which recognise the ECHR. This simply shows that there must be a policy freedom, which must also be able to be filled in, because otherwise the support for statements, for example on abortion, will not fly. If Mr Servaes denies this, he denies the functioning of the European Court of Human Rights at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u36	I have no need to reflect extensively on these kinds of issues. My argument is that the Court had defined a margin of appreciation for itself and that it had also made an exception for two fundamental rights. This is now mentioned in the preamble. I have no problem with that. It's fine to name this. I merely ask for confirmation that this is not indeed a widening or changing of the margin or appreciation on the two points mentioned. It means nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that Mr Omtzig's comment in his own term on the prevention of amnesty and pardon for possible perpetrators of the shooting of MH17 is very appealing to me. That remark has been taken from my heart. I hope that the Minister will take this seriously and follow it up as far as he can. The aim of the Protocol currently before us is to improve the functioning of the European Court of Human Rights. Although, as we know, the PVV is not the biggest fan of the European Convention on Human Rights, we are of course in favour of measures which will enable the European Court of Human Rights to improve justice. In my preliminary opinion, this is actually the case in Protocol No. 15. In fact, the judges can count on a final judgment of the European Court of Human Rights to be reached more quickly by at least two parts of that protocol. That is, firstly, the removal of that objection in the case of referral to the Grand Chamber and, secondly, the shortening of the period during which an appeal to the European Court of Human Rights can be brought from six to four months after the judgment of the highest national court has become final. I do have some questions about the possible speed improvement that could be achieved by removing the objection to referral. For me, however, the question remains as to whether this will actually lead to a reduction in the final overall duration of treatment of a matter. Or is it likely to increase the length of treatment? I will explain this on the basis of three questions. Can the Minister tell us how often an objection to referral is actually accepted and how often that is rejected? If it is almost always rejected because such an objection may almost always be wrongly made, then the possibility of objection can of course be more easily missed. How long is the average period for dealing with a referral objection? How much delay can such an objection lead to, on average? Can the Minister also clarify what is actually the average time for dealing with cases by, what I call, the Small Chamber and cases dealt with by the Grand Chamber? If it lasts longer in the Grand Chamber, it may take considerably longer than in the Small Chamber, then it is possible to expect an acceleration effect in the event of removal of the objections against referral. Then there is the question of the organisational change which will allow a judge who will be on a nomination after his 61st birthday to remain in office until after his 70th year and in some cases until his 74th year as judge of the European Court of Human Rights. A judge shall be appointed for a period of nine years. Its purpose is to prevent experienced judges from leaving in the meantime. I can certainly endorse that aim and I also think that we should not be afraid of American situations, where some Supreme Court judges sit in that seat for 40 years, until far after they are 80 years; that is not the case here and there is no threat of such a situation here either. My final point concerns the margin of appreciation. As far as I am concerned, it is a good thing that the existence of the margin of appreciation in the application of the European Convention on Human Rights is explicitly laid down. This margin of appreciation gives Member States a certain degree of policy freedom in the way they interpret the rights recognised in the Convention on Human Rights, while respecting national circumstances. The margin of appreciation thus also gives a certain margin of discretion which allows States to interpret such rights according to national circumstances. And we think that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u38	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u39	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the questions asked about Protocol 15 amending the ECHR. I share the view of many of the Members, in fact everyone, about the importance of the ECHR. There are different nuances and damages, but I think it is more important than ever at this time to stand for our standards and values that are threatened. I would like to say something about the broader framework in which Protocol 15 was established, so something about the background. I shall then turn to the specific questions raised by Members on the content of the protocol. As the Chamber knows, the ECHR was established a year after the establishment of the Council of Europe, which was a response to the horrors of the Second World War. The ten founding fathers, including France and the United Kingdom, shortly thereafter accompanied by Germany, aimed at a system of human rights, the rule of law and democracy that would be resilient to developments leading to war. The reasons for its creation are still standing. They are, especially in a time of new threats, autocracy in a number of countries and hybrid warfare, not a luxury item. It is a very different situation than after the Second World War, but it is no less relevant. The ECHR is an excellent recognition of the importance of human rights, which, in the final analysis, cannot be entrusted to national Member States alone. The ECHR has therefore been followed up at global level, particularly within the United Nations and on other continents, as the Chamber knows. Under Article 19, the ECHR is the body responsible for ensuring that the parties comply with their obligations if they are negligent. Was the right to complain against a state initially reserved to other states, gradually the individual complaint law developed; hence the large number of cases. Citizens have an independent right to complain against a state if they believe that their rights have been violated under the Treaty. This can only be done after he has done everything he can to get out at national level. There are therefore two important elements: the rights of the individual have become more important and the priority of the nation-state, which is the primary actor for protection, is internationally complementary. Hence the clarification of the principle of subsidiarity. I'll come back to that later. I would also like to draw attention to the individual's right in one of the cases, and I believe that Mr Servaes has dealt with this in relation to transgender. We see this just this week, at a time when we see that there are risks in a number of countries. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall, the geographical scope of the ECHR has expanded dramatically. Because the whole field from Reykjavik to Vladivostok is now governed by the ECHR, there are a number of substantive and organisational challenges that the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe have to face. It is therefore much more than a simple codification of the greatest common denominator of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. Right is not made in one day; Mr Omtzigt rightly pointed that out. This will also be reflected in a number of comments I would like to make on the margins of appreciation, which, as the Chamber knows, are very different in different areas. They are actually zero in the right to life, but much larger in a number of socio-economic rights, property rights and so on. I would like to make one more point, which may be important in view of the debate in the Chamber. The Netherlands is bound as a treaty state to comply with the ECHR provisions. This bondage exists regardless of the system of transit. As the Chamber knows, we have a moderate monist system in the Netherlands. The Treaty provisions do not need to be transposed into national law in order to have effect in the national legal order. If a court in a case before it considers that a legal provision in force within the Kingdom is incompatible with any binding provision of the ECHR, that provision shall not apply in that case. Members all know Article 94 of the Constitution. This is the background to the importance of the ECHR, which is essential for the understanding of society for how it works. Something has been said about the importance of support. It is therefore good to say something about the background, why it actually exists and how it has developed, individually and complementary about a much wider scope. As a result, a number of problems have also been encountered. That is why Protocol No. 15, one of the effects of the Brighton Ministerial Conference in 2012. It is in fact in a very long tradition of adapting the ECHR's human-law supervisory system to the demands of time, because that is what this is really about. Mr Omtzigt, Mr Servaes and others pointed out the changes made in history. The last complex system revision was that in 2010 when Protocol No. 14. This led to major innovations in the monitoring system aimed at reducing the exploded workload. The most eye-catching innovation was the single sitting judge. That brings me to the issue of the workload that all Members have asked for. That workload is really a problem, let there be no misunderstanding about it. It really needs to go down, with the big cases out there. The longer that takes, the less people feel that their complaints are being taken seriously. Then you're gonna have a problem with the support. Protocol No 14 introduced the judge sitting alone. That was the most obvious aspect of this innovation, which has halved the number of 160,000 overdue cases to about 80,000. That is far too much, but this is important if we are to see how apparently the protocols can help to increase effectiveness and efficiency. More modest is the yield of a new criterion of admissibility in Protocol No. 14. A case shall not be admissible if it appears that the applicant has not suffered any material disadvantage. Protocol No 15, what we are talking about here, actually wants to go further on that road of No. 14 and wants to do more about that workload. I think that protocol is intended to further reduce the workload. This also depends on the Member States themselves. Repeated complaints can be rehearsed towards the Court because the Member States themselves fail to implement the Court's ruling. I am prepared to point this out again at the ministerial committee, because this workload can be reduced by saying: implement it quickly now, so that we do not get a lot of new complaints. About Protocol No 16 has also been asked a question. I would also like to speed this up, although it is not just about workload and effectiveness. It also covers a number of other aspects relating to advice, for example from the Council of State here in the Netherlands. I will see to it that it comes quickly to the Chamber, I say to Mr Omtzigt. Then the Chamber can also consider to what extent this could also reduce the workload. But that is not the essence of Protocol No. 16. Then I come to the content of the procedural amendments and a number of questions that have been raised, firstly on the basis of the first point, the maximum age limit for judges, which is being changed. Judges shall now act no later than their 70th year. As a result, judges who at the beginning of their term of office are over 61 cannot complete their term. Protocol No 15 focuses on the age at the beginning, under 65 on the day the applications must be submitted to the Parliamentary Assembly. This guarantees that any judge, as Mr De Roon pointed out, can complete the full term, possibly up to his 74th. There are, indeed, very few judges who still become judges at 65, but of course you should not rule that out. Many new judges are needed, which is indeed very important. This measure can also help. It is important that experienced judges should be able to sit longer. A longer term for the court president is a good idea. It may be a little small for a whole new additional protocol, but I think this is an idea to hold on for a while, so that we can look at it in the negotiations on a follow-up protocol with regard to increasing effectiveness. We will bring it in on that occasion. I think that is a good thing. It is not a major change, I say directly, but it does offer advantages over the current system. At present, there is no ban on states proposing too old a candidate. A sensitive concept, but that will no longer be possible. That is the first point of the Protocol on which a number of questions have been asked. The second point is the possibility for the parties to object to referral of a case by a Chamber of the Court, seven judges, to the Grand Chamber, where there are 17 judges. That possibility will be abolished. Under Article 30 of the ECHR, the Court has the possibility to refer a case to the Grand Chamber.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Since this step for the parties means that they lose the chance of a second hearing of their case by the Court, it has so far been possible that they could object to it. That's right. This is no longer possible because of the necessary efficiency. Hence the adjustment. It will make little difference for an individual case, I say to the questioners on this point. The idea is that the Court as a whole can make a better transition. There is an increase in efficiency so that the Court can act more effectively, more efficiently and more quickly. With regard to effectiveness and efficiency, there is still a question of whether, for example, you can steer more money in that direction. That is, of course, always a sensitive issue in times of budget deficit. I believe that Mr Van Nispen has asked for this. Is it possible to move the budget from the Court in Luxembourg to the Court in Strasbourg? The contributions of some countries are even lower than the costs of their judges. This is indeed the case in a number of countries. I must tell you, however, that the issues in Luxembourg and Strasbourg are not comparable either in numbers or in complexity. The budget for Strasbourg itself is sufficient, in the opinion of the cabinet. Contributions are sometimes lower than a judge's salary, but you should also know that a judge is obviously working for the public interest and not for the Member State. We do not believe that the financial problem at the moment is the essence of the ineffective functioning of the Court. The third point concerns the submission of petitions, which is shortened from six months to four months after the last decision in a case. It responds to the accelerated means of communication of the present time. One suggestion was to do that pro forma. I understand that's not possible. We just have to stick to the rules that exist for that, so we can't. I wouldn't mind if I did. It would be an objection if it would lead to people not getting it done in time, which would put them at a disadvantage. The cabinet doesn't have that impression. You should also know that the lawyers involved in these cases are very well aware of this. Indeed, we live in a time of accelerated means of communication, with the Internet and fax, and given that, people must also be able to do so in time. We really think that period is very reasonable. Then I come to the fourth point, which has also been raised by a number of questions: the widening of the threshold of admissibility, not a substantial disadvantage. That is Article 5 of the Protocol, as it was introduced in Protocol No. 14. That threshold was laid down in Protocol No. 14 which proved to be less useful in practice than was desirable. One of those clauses is now being removed. The D66 Group and other members asked a number of questions about this. Could this pose a problem for people who want to file a complaint? One of the clauses is deleted, as has been said. This concerns the prohibition of the use of the admissibility threshold in cases not properly dealt with by a national court. This was actually included at the time when a number of new Member States joined the ECHR, which caused a problem in the risks involved in dealing with cases before a national court. As requested, I should like to make it quite clear here that the remaining clause, in short: human rights require that the matter be dealt with despite the absence of a substantial disadvantage, in order to be able, if necessary, to deal with situations which would otherwise fall within the scope of the clause to be deleted. In my opinion, that statement was requested by Members of Parliament. There is therefore no change in the possibility for people to complain. The extension of the admissibility threshold, 'no substantial disadvantage', has therefore not changed in essence. From a different point of view, the two points which I believe have been most highlighted in today's debate are the changes in the preamble. I shall begin with the question of subsidiarity. That is not an unimportant point, not least in view of the debate that has taken place here in the Chamber. It is a good thing that this has been appointed; that is also what I am saying to the VVD Group. The principle of subsidiarity is an important principle underlying the ECHR, without explicitly mentioning it. It is reflected in several articles, such as Article 1, which lays the responsibility for guaranteeing human rights on the States, Article 13, which obliges States to create effective national remedies for anyone who believes that their human rights have been violated, and Article 35, which requires applicants to first exhaust national remedies before turning to the ECHR. It is important that this anchoring was established with Protocol No. 15. Now I come to the point of the doctrine of margin of appreciation. That point has received the greatest attention, because it has led to debates in this Chamber. I believe that a motion by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Çörüz was tabled a few years ago; I was not here at the time, but I understood that from the notes I saw. Of course, there was also the Franken motion in the First Chamber, which you could say went very much the other way. This does not, of course, make it easier for the government to operate internationally, because of course we want to base ourselves on the views of our Chambers on international treaties. However, I think that we have actually come out well, if I may say so. If I listen carefully to the Members of the Chamber, I also think they actually agree. They have said that the doctrine of margin of appreciation has been developed in the case law of the Court itself. You could say that doctrine is, in that sense, a right of justice. It is indeed something on which politics must have all kinds of views directly in the sense of influencing the courts. Nevertheless, it is important that this is codified. Many Members of Parliament have rightly said so. I also think that the Court is applying the ECHR as a living instrument. That's important. The example of the transgenders was mentioned, but there are many other examples. "Living instrument" means that it must be relevant at present and cannot be interpreted solely on the basis of the intentions of the authors in 1950. According to the Court, the margin of appreciation may vary according to the human rights at issue and the specific situation. The MPs themselves have mentioned a number of examples. Of course, there may be differences of opinion about that. For example, in cases of the right to life, torture and inhuman or degrading treatment, the Court considers that the margin of appreciation is totally lacking, but may be much wider in cases such as freedom of expression or freedom of association and assembly, and even very wide in moral and socio-economic issues. Codifying important doctrines developed in case law leads to increased transparency and accessibility to the ECHR. I think this is important. Now I have been asked: would you at the time of ratification of Protocol No. 15 the extent of the margin of appreciation. I don't think so. I think the essence is that this is laid down in the protocol. In that sense, it has been codified. This is important for all kinds of reasons which Members have appointed in different nuances. The scope is therefore still important, but it is an scope that is further defined by the Court. The Dutch Government does not therefore want to comment on whether that should be a larger or a less large margin of appreciation. We don't want to do that, because we can't do that either. Countries cannot easily influence this, simply because it is, of course, a whole of 47 countries. That's where the point is. There is no question of a single government that could influence the Court if such a government would want to, which of course is not the case. Nevertheless, I think a number of points are important. Mr Taverne mentioned the point of de facto erga omnes. I think that is an important point. I do not quite know whether I agree with him when he says that there is a contradiction between that concept and what is actually laid down in the Protocol. Mr Taverne knows that under Article 46.1 of the ECHR Member States are obliged to implement judgments of the Court to which they are party. There is no such provision in relation to judgments against other countries. So formally there is no effect erga omnes. However, if a state were to be guided by this, which is, of course, the practice, and thus ignore judgments against other countries on relevant questions of law, it would obviously be possible to wait for citizens from such a country to report to the Court of Justice. I think that is where Mr Taverne is concerned too. I think that there is a responsibility of national governments on this point. In fact, the responsibility of the joint Member States for maintaining the system should already prevent people from all kinds of other Member States from doing so. This does not, however, mean that, for example, the Dutch State is bound to and is party to the enforcement of judgments in relation to complaints against other countries. I think that's important. Mr Taverne asked to look at the de facto "erga omnes" effect of judgments of the Court in relation to the margin of appreciation. So I think this is actually happening in practice. If a ruling by the Court against another country implies a certain margin of appreciation, I believe that this will give more room for Member States not directly concerned to draw up their own plans. That does not alter the fact that de facto "erga omnes" effect of judgments of the Court is not an external disaster. It is something that is naturally developed on the basis of a judge's ruling following interpretation of case law in 47 countries. It means nothing other than that, in the event of a judgment against another Member State, Member States must faithfully check whether they themselves should take this decision. So you could say there's a margin there too. If they fail to do so, they will not act literally in violation of the ECHR, but will provoke new petitions to the Court. The enormous workload of the Court alone is sufficient reason to look seriously at the possible consequences of judgments against other countries. I really think that's the point. The core is effectiveness and efficiency. Then it is wise that you look at this point in time. What does a verdict to another country mean to us? However, it doesn't mean that you are literally bound by such a statement and should give effect to lock, stock and barrel, without any interpretation from, for example, the Dutch State. There is indeed a responsibility for the Netherlands too. A question has also been asked about the Storimans case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u40	Now that the Minister is moving on to another subject, the next point is still to be made. Listening to him well, I understand the reasoning that there is a certain margin when in this case the Netherlands chooses to implement a ruling against another country in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u41	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u42	I agree with the Minister, and that is why I raised this point with our Dutch Minister. Is he prepared to ensure that there is no overenthusiasm there, or is he actually given the opportunity to take account of the Dutch circumstances? Some critics sometimes argue that things may be a little too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u43	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u44	I think that's another point. If you're talking about critics, I can say that, of course, I don't know which critics are involved. There are many possible criticisms of the ECHR at the moment. The British criticism partly focuses on a completely different matter, in which the Dutch government is very different. At this point, we need to be very precise. There is a ruling by the Court on a particular country, and that is where it ends. Then, of course, it is up to the Dutch Government to look at the whole of those statements. The Dutch Government has understood, on the basis of that judgment of the Court, that there is a point here. Of course, there is a margin for the Dutch government to consider, what that ruling would mean for any complaints from Dutch society. But there is also a question of effectiveness. That's the other part of what we're discussing today. If you do not do that at all, you can count on many citizens in the Netherlands going to the European courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u45	Finally, Mr Taverne.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u46	Back to another part that is directly related to this. I'd like the Minister to submit it anyway. I would like to introduce it precisely, Mr President, otherwise I cannot ask the question properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u47	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u48	That's tricky, but I'll do it as short as I can. The Minister states that there is no reason in itself to argue for a wider or narrower margin of appreciation, because it is an instrument of justice and because of course we do not want to act in its independence. Prior to that, the Minister is right to say that it is a means of bringing about well-worded justice, so that we should leave it to the courts for that reason. At the same time, it denies that this right of justice is indeed based on a treaty which was at least approved by this house in the 1950s. The reasoning that you shouldn't really find any of that anymore...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u49	This can't be happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u50	... is a bit at odds with democratic legitimacy, because then, since the right to justice is on something that has ever been agreed, you can't find any of it. If you think of it, there's nothing you can do about it. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u51	Well, for starters, it's okay to find something. I don't think there's any problem there. You can have views about it and there are all kinds of ways to reform international law, to have ideas about it and to put forward proposals for it. The Netherlands can do the same. However, we must be very strict in this regard, on behalf of the Dutch Government, I am quite fundamental in the matter of the separation of powers and the clear relationship between the Constitution and international law. We therefore believe that it is a good position for this to be codified. You could say that this is a general direction for the judges: something has been codified that you have developed. This is, let there be no misunderstanding, considered important by the Member States. But at the same time we are not going to interfere with the scope, because there are other means for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u52	I suggest you continue with the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u53	The Storimans case is a huge frustration, also for the Dutch government. I do not see Mr Omtzigt for a moment, but I would like to say that the Dutch Government has requested to intervene as a third party, because Storimans is a Dutch citizen. That permission has been obtained. This also shows the possibilities for a country to interfere with what is happening in Strasbourg. Waiting for the specific time limit for the Court to be lodged. The case awaits treatment because there is an interstate complaint between Georgia and Russia. We may regret that or not, but that state complaint must be resolved before this matter can proceed. I say to Mr Omtzig that we naturally consider this important, not only because it concerns a Dutch citizen, but also because it concerns the matter itself and the way in which it has gone. However, there is a state complaint between Georgia and Russia and there is nothing I can do about it. That is decided in Strasbourg. I have taken note of the fact that Mr Omtzigt has put questions to the Council of Ministers as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly. I would, of course, like to help to ensure that these questions are answered in good time. I did not go into Mr De Roon's questions very precisely about the lead times. I'll take a closer look at that. For the Dutch Government, every effort is made to reduce the workload through these protocols and follow-up protocols, to increase the effectiveness of the Court and to ensure that it can switch better. If there are even better methods for this, then we will continue to do so. We are, of course, open to suggestions from the Chamber, because although there is now a reduction of 160,000 to 80,000, that is far from enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u54	I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. I see Mr Omtzigt, Mr De Roon and Mr Van Nispen. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. The order has been changed a little bit, but that's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u55	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the clear answer of the Minister and the interesting interruptions. The VVD Group believes that abortion is covered by the right to live. This will provide interesting rulings from the European Court of Human Rights, because if it were to fall within that framework, those rulings would be totally contrary to the rulings in this case. But that aside. We are waiting for Protocol No. 16 down. I am glad that in due course the government will look at a longer term for the President and perhaps also for the Presidents of the Great and the Small Chamber so that they can have a year or two if it is appropriate that they should sit a little longer. It's a good thing the Minister's taking up the Storimans case. I understand that there are state complaints, but they are a typical example of state complaints that should have been dealt with a long time ago, because they also have a great relevance to what is happening between Russia and Ukraine. The fact that this state complaint has not yet been dealt with shows that this also raises international legal problems. I thank the Minister for promoting the timely response to my questions. He may have noticed that my previous questions were not answered at all there. It's possible. This is not a custom that we should adopt from Strasbourg. I would like to record something about that. This has nothing to do with the government's response, because that was sufficient. I would like to ask for an address to the House on amnesty and pardon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that there should be no amnesty and pardon for the perpetrators of the attack on the MH17 on 17 July 2014;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the response of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe to these questions within the regular three-month deadline;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate explicitly whether Ukraine and Russia have agreed to the reply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33873-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to be helpful in not doing a second term, but I'm not gonna let you get away with it. First of all, the VVD Group would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. It is, of course, very important for the Minister to keep a close eye on the subject because he considers it important. We have discussed the margin of appreciation in detail. There are nuance differences in the things that have been said about this. The debate has therefore undoubtedly not ended, even if only because the debate on the rights covered or not will continue. One point the Minister mentioned in his reply was only very brief: the fierce debate in the United Kingdom which I set out as an example. As I pointed out in my first term, it is important. We shouldn't ignore it. This discussion is relevant and is also starting to rage in other countries. I therefore repeat my questions to the Minister as to how he assesses this discussion, what we should take into account in the Netherlands and what we can do to help maintain the support for the ECHR, including in the United Kingdom and other countries where there is great criticism of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his historic consideration and his warm words about the importance of human rights and the European Court of Human Rights. However, we must note that the problem of workload remains. Although it has been halved to 80,000, it is still awfully large. The workload is therefore, and remains, problematic. In reply to my question on the budget, the Minister said that finance is not really the reason for the Court's failure to function. It could be. However, in response to that, it is strange that we are looking at everything except the budget. So we have Protocol No. 14 we now discuss and discuss Protocol No. 15, all procedural cases. I think that's a little too easy. I do not come up with a concrete proposal, nor do I put a bag of money on the table, but I did point out that the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is, of course, a very different Court where very different cases are dealt with than at the ECHR, has five times the budget. We all say here that the importance of the ECHR is particularly great. Then I think that the budget should also be looked at, not just at procedural matters. It is very strange that a judge's salary is higher than a Member State's contribution. So I ask the Minister to look at the budget, not just at the budget, but also at the budget. The government does not expect any problems due to the fact that the deadline for lodging a complaint went from six months to four months. It's possible. My reaction to this is that I do not see sufficient motivation and have seen why the deadline should be so much shorter, whereas despite the use of modern means of communication, it cannot suddenly be two months faster. That's an exaggeration. Finally, I have missed the answer given in the first period to my question on the initiative law of Mr Taverne and its impact on the workload of the ECHR.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. If the ECHR has given an opinion against another State and the Netherlands is then confronted with a similar defence, the Minister considers that it is on the way of the Dutch State to determine whether a margin of appreciation is applicable and, if so, to rely on it. I am very pleased about this. In my opinion, this should apply not only to procedures in Strasbourg but also to national procedures, i.e. to procedures in our own courts where such a defence is held. This means that government officials should look into this when they have to act in such a procedure. So there is a ruling against another country, but is there still a margin of appreciation here? This applies to officials, prosecutors and national judges. Does the Minister agree with me that this should always be looked at carefully and that when one sees space, one should also take that space? Then I come to the question of removing the objection procedure against a reference to the Grand Chamber. From the Minister's reply, I have not yet got a clear picture of the efficiency gains. For example, what is the profit for the lead times of business? What I have quite clearly picked up from the Minister's reply is that if that objection procedure no longer exists, it may happen that just people are deprived of judgment in Strasbourg in the second instance. That's a big good, too. That is what I will discuss with my group. I therefore suspend my judgment on whether or not to approve this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr Servaes, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u60	Mr De Roon has a very constructive and substantive input into this debate. Does this mean that the PVV Group once again welcomes the ECHR and the European Court as important instruments for international law and international traffic in general?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u61	In the introduction to my first term, I have already said that we are not known as a big fan of that treaty and, above all, of a number of judgments of the Court. Let me give two examples. In the 1980s, the interpretation of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights killed the entire administrative dispute section of the Council of State. That was bad, because the lawyers and the lawyers were much more content with the dispute resolution department for the disputes of the board than with what the justice department could achieve for their cases. I therefore note that the Dutch interest has been significantly damaged, as far as we can estimate. My second and final example is the question of people coming here from another country being able to lock their entire family into the country for a long time. All this is done by appealing to the European Convention on Human Rights. In the view of the PVV, this means that we are not really in charge of our own house anymore. We don't decide who comes in here anymore. We think that is a bad thing. We find it unfortunate that the judgment on the precise application of the ECHR is taking place in Strasbourg. That is why we believe that we should withdraw from that treaty and from that court. That does not mean that we distance ourselves from human rights, of course not. However, we believe that this should be determined in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u62	That was a short question, with a very long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u63	So the answer is no. You still want to get rid of it. For a moment I thought we had everyone back on board, but unfortunately the PVV still leaves the European Court of Justice for what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u64	I understand the Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor. The Minister can also give a very brief and concise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mr. Chairman. I will do it very briefly. Looking at a longer term for presidents, we will see with colleagues whether the idea of new protocols falls on fertile soil. As far as Georgia's state complaint against Russia is concerned, I feel the same frustration as the Chamber. To the extent that we can do something about it, we will, of course, try to promote rapid progress. The possibilities are limited, however, because they are in the hands of the Court. I sympathize with the Chamber on this point. This is a Dutch citizen who is a victim. The right must therefore be achieved within a reasonable period of time. This also highlights the importance of the protocols in promoting the effectiveness and efficiency of the work. Then I come to the question about the United Kingdom. I always find it difficult to refer to discussions in different countries and to judge them. In the United Kingdom, the question is whether there is too much dominance for the ECHR. Mr Taverne asks what the Dutch Government thinks about this. For us, the ECHR is an important part of our legal system. The Convention and its Protocols contain articles which are binding on all. Mr Taverne will soon agree with me. Citizens can directly rely on those provisions, including in court proceedings. If a court finds that the Dutch legislation or a decision cannot be reconciled with any of these provisions, it must give priority to the ECHR. That is also well known. He can do so by interpreting the Dutch law in accordance with the treaty or, in the extreme, by excluding the law from application. For the record, the ECHR does not have the latter competence. There are quite a few misunderstandings about this in the Netherlands, but I don't think you do. The ECHR merely notes that the application of the rules in a specific case is not or was not compatible with the ECHR. It leaves it to the Member State concerned to take general measures to prevent similar violations in the future. This is an important distinction, which I do not believe will always be sufficiently highlighted in the discussions in the United Kingdom. The government does not intend to amend the Constitution in this respect. The previous government has made this argument in its response to the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. It has therefore taken the view that the State Commission also attaches priority to the importance of the open nature of the Constitution vis-à-vis the international legal order. This is reflected in the system of the passage of international law that you know. We've had an investigation on that before through the WODC. This has been the subject of a study on the implementation of the ECHR and the rulings of the ECHR in national case law in a comparative legal perspective. That investigation was sent to the Chamber by letter dated 16 September 2013. The study concludes that the nature of the constitutional system for the transmission of international law through national case law is much less important for the impact of international law than is often assumed. I believe we get about three statements per year from the ECHR that apply directly to the Netherlands. These may be things that one can think differently about, but I think it is important for the Dutch Government to put it at the top. The Dutch legal order is not limited to the conviction of the government, in the sense that the ECHR is too dominant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u66	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u67	I'll wait until the Minister answers all the questions. Then you'll have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u68	I have a few more questions to answer about money. The point is always that you do it together with other countries according to a certain key, to get the amounts in the direction of the Court and to ensure that it leads to efficiency. There is no option for the Dutch Government; let me say that. If it makes a lot of difference, everyone agrees and if that is the way to increase effectiveness and efficiency, then we should leave that option open. Of course, as a minister, I am always happy when a Member of Parliament comes to say that the international financing of important human rights issues needs to be strengthened. I say to you: at the moment there is no reason for the Dutch Government to promote this, but that option remains open. We can once again talk about it during a budget debate, because it is an important point if it can indeed increase effectiveness and efficiency. I have no opinion of an initiative proposal that I have not yet studied. The government should refrain from doing so. This is, of course, an important debate and I am not going to anticipate it. That would also be very unjust, both constitutionally and out of respect for the interests of the authors and the ideas involved. It is true what Mr De Roon said. It is true that Dutch officials and ministers are involved in a case. Of course, we're going to study that space. That's different than trying to get a room. Of course, that depends on what our vision is. But I agree with Mr De Roon on that point. I now come to the debate on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u69	Before you do that, Mr Taverne has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u70	I am going to put my question more precisely in response to the comment on the United Kingdom. What does the Minister think about the support for the ECHR and the judgments of the Court that the Prime Minister of England said about one of those rulings that it made him "physically ill"? And what does he think of the fact that the Prime Minister of England, after the Home Secretary of England, proposes that, if the Court continues to make that kind of ruling against the UK, it should withdraw from the ECHR? Does the Minister have an opinion on that? Can he say what this means for the support and for the obvious appreciation of judgments of the Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u71	I do not want to interfere in an election campaign in the United Kingdom. It is not for the Dutch Government to judge positions taken by different electoral candidates, one of which is, of course, Prime Minister. I don't think that's appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u72	It's easy for the Minister to ignore that. The first statement was made two years ago by Minister May, shortly thereafter followed by Mr Cameron's statement. There were no elections in the United Kingdom back then. I would therefore like to receive an appreciation from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u73	I am going to abstain from Mr Taverne on this point. It is not for me to judge the British Prime Minister's views on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u74	I asked for an appreciation. What does it mean for the support of the ECHR and for judgments of the Court when such a ruling is made? I am not asking for an assessment of the ruling; I am asking what that statement means for the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u75	That is a different question, and I would like to thank Mr Taverne for his clarification. I do not have an opinion because I do not know. I have no opinion of the acceptance of the ECHR in the Netherlands in relation to a statement by an English Prime Minister. I have the impression that there is broad support in the Netherlands, and I see that again today in the Chamber for the importance of international human rights instruments and the ECHR. This is also reflected in the number of people who consider it important to submit complaints. I believe that we should always look at the margin of appreciation. There are always points around such a debate. For me, that is not, as it is called in good English, "cast in iron." We have an important toolbox. I welcome the fact that this is the subject of debates. They are now being pushed at the sharpest edge of the scabbard in the United Kingdom. I do not think that this in itself is detrimental to the basis of support, because a discussion is always good. However, I do not have an opinion on the support of the ECHR in the Netherlands as a result of a statement by an English politician.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u76	I'm a little upset, almost emotional, now that I see that the VVD Group is concerned about the support. I have a question for the Minister. Several groups say in this Chamber that it is a good thing that the ECHR and the European Court of Human Rights are there. However, outside the Chamber, they send articles to the newspaper about judges or politicians in toga to be restricted. Does the Minister consider this to contribute to the support of the ECHR? What does the Minister think does this do with the support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u77	I find that difficult to say too. Honestly, I'm not sure exactly what impact this has on the support base. That's interpreted. As Mr Schouw knows, we live in a time when power over the image is the most important thing, so if I have to say something about it... I have said today what the position of the Dutch Government is. I believe that position is clear. I also have the impression that it can count on the vast majority of the Chamber. In addition, I do not find it a problem to have a political debate within and outside this Chamber on matters that people consider important. I do not think we should stop this. There is a legitimate debate about international treaties and how we deal with each other internationally. I always find that conducive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u78	Would the Minister appreciate it on behalf of the cabinet as political parties that have fundamental criticism of the European Court and the ECHR, for example, which not only criticise the bühne, i.e. by means of written documents in the newspaper, but simply do so where it has to be done, namely in the Chamber, and that they do not show two faces on this point? Does he like it, on behalf of the cabinet, if this doesn't happen again in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u79	Mr Schouw asks a bit about the familiar road. He knows that it is not up to the cabinet to comment on how a Member of Parliament, MPs or political groups should behave. Within our democracy, anyone can do so in the way that suits him or her. I think we have had a good debate today on the content. I appreciate that very much. I now come to the motion on part No. 6, tabled by Mr Omtzigt. This motion calls on the government to promote that questions on amnesty and pardon for the perpetrators of the attack on the MH17 be answered by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe within the regular three-month period. I don't have a problem with that. On the contrary, that is what I want to promote. I don't need a motion for that. The motion also calls on the government to state explicitly whether Ukraine and Russia have agreed to the reply. That is a bit tricky, because I can report to you on the discussion in the Committee of Ministers for the Council of Europe, but I cannot commit myself to the outcome here, because I am not alone about that. So if I had to put it that way, I would have to discourage the motion, although Mr Omtzigt and I have no disagreement about the importance. I would like to stress once again that the Dutch Government would find it unacceptable if, in one way or another, there were amnesty or pardon for the perpetrators of the attack on the MH17. As we know, in recent times, we have indicated through UN Security Council resolutions, through discussions with those on the table in Minsk and through the commitments already made in the ICAO Convention and in international law, that this cannot, of course, be dealt with as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u80	It is quite clear to me that this is the position of the Dutch Government. So let there be no misunderstanding about that. The question is not about Ukraine either, because that has answered clearly. The question here is about the Russian Federation. I would like the Minister to interpret the motion in such a way that he promotes that within three months there will be those answers and that he will do everything within his power and that when that discussion has taken place, either the Minister or the Permanent Representative to the Council of Europe will be present and we will be given a report on whether it has been delivered unanimously or by majority. Moreover, the question of whether the countries are unanimous in their opinion is contained in the written questions. Let us just be very honest: it is good that Ukraine and Russia declare this together. We do not need to know about Chile or Ecuador, but only about those two countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u81	I understand that. Once again, the Dutch Government takes the position that we will of course answer those questions and that we will encourage them to be answered as soon as possible, at least within the time limit indicated by Mr Omtzigt. That is what we are trying to do. When it comes to the report of the Committee of Ministers for the Council of Europe, I can say that, of course, we are also obliged to provide information to the Chamber. Whether this will then lead to a precise discussion about who voted what and where, I should check. If that is possible, at least I have no problem with it, but I really will have to check first to see if that fits in with the way we report to the Council of Europe on this Committee of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-11-tweedekamer-6.u82	We will be voting on Mr Omtzigt's bill and motion next week.
