ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister, her officials, the people who are left in the gallery and those who are watching. We have quite a few speakers: nine in total. I would ask Members to keep it as concise as possible, including in the case of interruptions. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, I had a day shift in the ambulance. I can say that's very impressive. You're going through something, and you can't predict it. What I found particularly impressive were the professionalism that prevails and the quality that is delivered. It's really impressive. However, what do we hear from health insurers? The quality is not in order, so emergency aid should be limited. Actually, the Minister feels the same way. The plans made by health insurers in the regions do not need to be made public. The Minister is not interested in that. She has every confidence that the health insurance companies are doing this right. However, I have a number of questions about this. Where exactly do you want emergency services to disappear? What consequences does this have, including for driving times? I've been on a drive where we really drove the vowels out of the street. I can say that this also affects the safety of other traffic. The question is what will happen if more emergency services close. Would it not be a good idea if the Minister made the plans for the dilution of emergency aid, as it is called, just to be made public? Healthcare insurers have the direction and are getting more and more direction. They are allowed to kill hospitals by not contracting them anymore or by demanding that a fully-fledged hospital become a one-and-a-half center. They can squeeze free-standing psychiatrists because a budget ceiling has been reached. Ergotherapists and general practitioners can saddle them with crazy bureaucracy, as if these people didn't just learn for their profession. They may go their divine ways in the care of them. And the supervisor looks away and he's working on himself. On Tuesday, the minister of joy crowded about a report stating that Dutch care would be the best in Europe. You can say a lot about that report and about its preparation, but there are also many other reports. Would the Minister also respond to the report of the Japanese Bureau of Numbeo which shows that care in the United Kingdom is the best in Europe and in which the Netherlands is 17th in Europe? Would she also like to respond to the serious figure from the International Health Policy Survey, which shows that 22% of Dutch people avoid care because of excessive costs? The Court never reached this report, although it was commissioned by the Ministry. How is that possible, I ask the Minister. What does the Minister think about the fact that general practitioners should not be allowed to work together when health insurance companies with "signs on the right like" contracts and submit their undisputed contracts? When is the Minister going to appeal to the four major health insurers to divide the market and to a critical branch of industry in this case that DSW makes working impossible and exclude that party from information because it is critical? What does the Minister think about healthcare insurers in the Netherlands doing with one of their members? I think hundreds of thousands of people have a budget policy. What does the Minister think about the fact that people who have such a policy with the country's largest health insurance company are not allowed to go to the specialised cancer centre in the Netherlands because their health insurance company has not signed a contract with it? The same health insurance company can also participate in the wasteful circus with which insured persons are lured. 500 million are thrown on the market every year for advertising, sponsorship and lures. Is this really what the Minister is so proud of? Is she prepared to stop bribing insured people, including towards budget policies? As far as the SP is concerned, the solution is clear. Don't give the health insurance companies the direction in the care, but take it yourself. Ensure that the health insurance premium is income-dependent and that there is a national healthcare provision that concludes contracts with healthcare providers in the country. They do not deal with seven different parties with which they have to negotiate, but with one. That saves a lot of bureaucracy and a lot of switching. This enables us to organise economical and sensible care on the basis of coherence and cooperation. That way we can do much better than the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. In 2006 we placed the direction of care with the health insurance companies, with the task of curbing healthcare costs and improving quality. The balance sheet is as follows after eight years. Expenditure has risen by one third. The care premium has risen by a fourth. The mandatory own risk has increased to €375, which has brought 800,000 people into payment problems. Quality is not measurable. Prices of treatments are not known. There is financial chaos in the sector. The prospect of improvement is unclear. Here only one conclusion fits: health insurance companies are bad directors. What else can we see? 12 emergency rooms have been closed. Two hospitals went bankrupt. Many hospitals have been merged. Health insurers are also merged. There are only four major health insurers left who divide the market and then rule as dictators. Doctors and hospitals who resist are put under pressure by means of sanctions, or they do not even get a contract at all. Patients who could exercise their influence by changing health insurance companies appear to be trapped in collective contracts, linked supplementary contracts or municipal contracts. Of the insured, 71% have never changed health insurance. These people are either afraid to lose care, or they find that there is little difference between the policies of the four major groups. After all, competition is far from being achieved. In 2015, the largest health insurance company in the Netherlands wants someone with cancer to go to an ordinary hospital first. Only when the doctor decides that he can't handle the care can the cancer patient go to a specialised or academic hospital. The Breast Cancer Society says: "Unfortunately we see too often that patients are not referred. (...) This means that these patients are denied better care." She also says that people with a cheap policy should be able to go to an academic hospital or to the Antoni van Leeuwenhoek. Does the Minister agree with the health insurance provider, who sends patients to the cheapest hospital for cost reasons, or does she agree with the patient association, who believes that everyone is entitled to the best care? Does the PVV believe that the longer it takes for someone to be treated with cancer, the more difficult and expensive the treatment becomes? After eight years, one thing has become clear: there is only one criterion for health insurers, namely money. With that they have filled their pockets all these years grif. Over EUR 9 billion in premium money has not been spent on care, but they have been left on the shelf in case bad times come and they lose on their investments. Because they hardly run another risk. My group thinks it is high time for the Minister to intervene. Firstly, it must enforce quality and transparency and no longer leave it to the sector to do so. I thought the Quality Institute had perseverance. Let the Minister make sure it uses it. If the health insurance companies want to retain control, they will have to meet the following three conditions as far as the PVV is concerned. 1. Make sure that the raised premium money is returned to the contributor. The way they do that, they can fill in themselves, as long as they are transparent about it, so that we can control it. 2. Make the purchase terms public. We want to know how choices are made and what standards are used for selective purchasing. 3. Give doctors the space to treat patients on the basis of medical necessity, regardless of the type of policy and purchasing conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this debate is about strengthening the position of the insured person and the patient, not only vis-à-vis the health insurance provider, but also vis-à-vis the healthcare provider. After all, care is about patients, but unfortunately they have the weakest position, not only because you are very vulnerable when you are sick, but also because as a patient you have the least knowledge and the least information. If you're sick, which doctor do you have to go to? What's the best doctor in your field? That's pretty insightful, but doctors among themselves know it too, but the patient doesn't know it. A smart bundling of resources on treatment in combination with patient reviews already indicates what objective and subjective criteria are. It's just there, but it's not public. The NPCF has already shown in a number of areas that it is possible to make quality public, but it also encounters resistance. Doctors don't open up and the health insurance companies don't do enough. Thus they hold each other in a hold. Doctors and health insurers have the power and the knowledge, but the patient doesn't have it. The triangle that we have devised and which must balance each other is not in balance. The patient suffers from too much power and knowledge with the health insurance provider and with the doctor. I therefore ask the Minister how this impasse can be broken and how we can ensure that there is openness in the short term. I am not talking about the long-term discussions on directives. Just make what's already there public in the short term. What perspective do we all want to offer the patient and at what time? If the quality is public, how can it be ensured that insured persons have an impact on their health insurance provider's purchasing? For example, patients with a kidney problem can inform their health care provider with their doctors so incredibly well about how to buy care and what appropriate care is. That's quality. This is also what the Health and Society Council proposes in a report on strengthening the position of insured persons. Does the Minister accept this recommendation? The Labour Party has already expressed its concerns about the lack of legitimacy of health insurers due to all the criticism there is. We don't see the improvements yet. Does the Minister recognize this criticism? How can this be restored?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u5	We know that a lot of customer loyalty is being done, such as sponsoring football clubs and you name it. There are commercials, too. The Minister has always said that this is part of the system. We can disagree on that, but okay. One of the real excesses when it comes to getting insured people to switch are all those presents. From condoms to X-boxes, they've been given away in the past year. Wouldn't it be a good idea to just say, "Dear health insurance companies, we don't do that anymore, no more presents when taking out health insurance?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u6	We think it's a much better idea if people are just well informed about the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u7	That is an eternal discussion, which we have had many times here. I would say: do a disclaimer at a health insurance policy, which says: your health insurance company will...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u8	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u9	We know people are being lured on the wrong grounds. That's contrary to a good policy. That good policy's been gone for centuries. Then we can say, "We'll wait for that." But we can also say that we simply don't allow the baits and the presents anymore, regardless of whether there will be a proper policy statement. And the Labour Party says?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u10	I believe the C.E.S. spokesperson at the hearing said he found that abject. A lot of people are worried about it. I think that's right, and I understand that. I would very much like people who choose a policy to get honest, clear and understandable information about the offer in advance, so no fine print, no nasty surprises, no hospital bills you didn't expect. That's what we want, and that's where we need to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u11	Mr. Chairman. Allow me to make a factual comment, not a question. On Tuesday someone also said that CZ would have said that they thought that abject, but that's the health insurance company that bribes young people with condoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u12	I'd like to say a few words about that. The SP, the Labour Party and the VVD hand out condoms in campaign time, with a slogan on it. We have to be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u13	This seems like a road we shouldn't go on. Back to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u14	Mrs Bouwmeester said that it is important that there is honest information when insured persons want to take out a policy, so that they are not misled. The Dutch Healthcare Authority's report shows that they were misled during the last transition period. What is Mrs Bouwmeester's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u15	I share your concern about this. I myself tabled an amendment to the infamous Article 13 which states that people should be given what they could reasonably expect to be entitled to, on the basis of the information and everything related to that policy. If that amendment had been adopted, which we now have to consider in a smart way how to adopt, then this kind of thing will be countered, so I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u16	It is also important that people now sometimes have a policy where they think they have free choice of care, whereas that is not the case. Does Mrs Bouwmeester agree with me that these people actually took out a policy on false grounds and that the health insurance provider should solve it if it causes problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u17	The essence of the amendment is that people should be given what they should reasonably expect to be entitled to. If it says, "You're gonna get this, you're gonna get it." It would also be very good if the NZa were to look at how people are informed. You can have whole discussions about whether it was in the fine print or not. We believe that the policy should be clear, fair and understandable and that people should be entitled to it. Once again, I have tabled an amendment which has been tabled by the House of Representatives, so that this is precisely regulated by the law. If it's up to me, we'll still take care of it. Mrs Bruins Slot has the honour to sign this, because I think we agree that the policy must be fair and understandable. No deception. People should get what they thought they deserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u18	I was right to hear Mrs Bouwmeester say that the patient's position must be strengthened and also the position of the insured person. Does she agree with me that the position of the insured person can only really be strengthened if he influences the quality of the policies? This will only come about if there is a limited range of policies per health insurance company, because then the health insurance company will be forced to offer the very best quality in relation to the very best price to the insured person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u19	I very much agree with the GroenLinks spokesman that the position of the insured should be greatly strengthened. Care is about the insured person. If you're ill, you're unfortunately becoming an insured patient. That's why you need to involve those people, who have so much knowledge and expertise, much more, not only with the policy, but also with what's in the policy, what's being bought in, how is being bought in and whether that fits with that particular patient group. The discussion between health insurers, society and patients can be resolved if you include the criticism, the questions and the wishes in your purchasing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u20	I agree with Mrs Bouwmeester that it is important that the insured person in the insurer also has a say in the content and quality of care. Does Mrs Bouwmeester agree with me that with the huge forest of policies, with the huge oversupply of policies, the insured no longer knows what he is up to and therefore cannot make a content-based choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u21	I agree that there is a tremendous lack of clarity. That is why, last year, I made a proposal to Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA on the budget and also on the health policy comparison sites, which do not make it clearer but more unclear. When people close a care policy, we want it to be honest. We have seen in the financial world what happens when people take out policies they do not understand. It's gonna go to hell. Let us learn from the mistakes of the financial sector, which apply to the healthcare sector and make those products fair, understandable and transparent. Make sure that insured people and patients get what they can expect. No deception, no ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u22	I give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u23	Mr. Chairman. The annual changeover circus, in which tens of millions are spent, is over again. A lot of advertising for highly educated, healthy, athletic people, but not for chronically ill. How is that possible? My question to the Minister. During the round table we had two weeks ago, even the health insurance companies indicated that the number of policies and their content has become completely unclear. They too do not come out. Citizens no longer see the forest through the trees. There are too many types of policies, over which health insurers and comparison sites also communicate misleadingly. The CDA is in favour of a commission ban and has asked the Minister to do so. The Minister said, however, that it is not yet that far. Maybe now, if even the health insurance companies report it, it's time to put a brake on all those policies. Is the Minister prepared to take action to reduce the number of policies? People who have taken out the cheapest policy will be faced with nasty surprises this year. We have already heard that customers of Achmea in Apeldoorn, where 50% is insured, cannot go to Gelre Hospital in Apeldoorn this year. I just heard a colleague say that people with a budget policy, cancer patients, can't go to the Antoni of Leeuwenhoek Hospital. My question to the Minister is: does a contracted doctor always have the right to refer to an uncontracted doctor if there is a medical need? Can the Minister guarantee that this won't produce a huge paper mill? The tricky thing is that patients and healthcare providers often don't know which care was or hasn't been purchased on the basis of a policy. The Minister said earlier in a debate that healthcare providers can look up this as much as possible for their patients and, if necessary, monitor it. However, I am getting more and more signals from the field that healthcare providers cannot do that at all. It doesn't work, because they don't understand what policy an insured person is in. That has to do with a certain code, the uzovi code. Is the Minister prepared to agree with the health insurance companies that each policy will have its own uzovi code so that healthcare providers can at least check whether or not a patient is insured for a particular treatment? The CDA considers good care in the region to be very important and, according to the CDA, low-threshold local hospitals are indispensable for this. The Dutch Healthcare Authority has an availability contribution emergency care and acute birth care if that provision is too expensive. The NZa has drawn up policy rules for this. The strange thing is that no hospital complies with that policy to get an availability contribution to emergency care and acute birth care, not even the ZorgSaam Hospital in Zeeland, although the Minister has identified this as a sensitive hospital. This hospital is necessary for care in Zeeland. There must be an emergency and acute birth care there. The management also indicates that it needs that contribution to ensure that the hospital remains on its feet. The Minister has previously replied to my questions that the Dutch Healthcare Authority is going to analyse the consequences for health insurers of not providing the availability contribution. That analysis should have been there by the end of November. I haven't seen anything yet. It's now the end of January. When will the Minister get over the bridge? Will the ZorgSaam Hospital in Zeeland and another hospital that is facing this, the Gemini Hospital in Den Helder, now receive an availability contribution? If that analysis of the Dutch Healthcare Authority is already there, can the CDA get that analysis? The future of the Health Insurance Act is in a no-man's-land. We don't know which way it's going. The Minister has the route in his hands. When can we expect the bill that was rejected in the First Chamber back in the Second Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u24	The CDA is one of the parties that has always been very supportive of our healthcare system. The CDA has supported it and has also provided a minister for many years. It has implemented and fully supported this Health Insurance Act. I've never actually heard that the CDA wants to change course. But now Mrs. Bouwmeester has... Oh, no, I'm sorry. Now it's all fucked up. You'll always see that. I apologize: I'm really dramatic with names. It's not Mrs. Bruins Slot. Mrs Bruins Slot is now talking about the switching circus, as if something new was happening, as if the CDA had discovered something new. I thought switching was always part of the system. It was, and it still is. Where does this new terminology come from at the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u25	What is new is that there is a report from our Dutch Healthcare Authority. It has drawn the hard conclusion that due to the number of policies and the comparison sites, wrong information has been everywhere, causing people to switch wrongly. It says literally in the report: at the moment we cannot guarantee whether the information that is here is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u26	Sometimes things happen that may not be quite great and we can talk about that. You can adjust the system. Sometimes it's necessary. However, switching has always been part of the system. Isn't it a little strange that, if you've always supported this and probably still support it, you're an essential part of this system, which is that people can switch to another insurer, now suddenly portrays it as a circus?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u27	For switching it is important that it is clear which policy you can get. During the round table, in which the VVD was not present, health insurers said that they themselves got very tired of all gifts and that they also found the amount of policies very opaque. A health insurance company even indicated that he felt he had too many policies himself. So this kind of signal comes from that angle. Meanwhile, there are emails from patients, insured persons, in which they indicate that they no longer see the forest through the trees. Then it's good to listen to that and see how you can fix this. The CDA likes to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u28	Mr. Chairman. This week we saw the report of Health Consumer Powerhouse, which gives a good picture of Dutch care. However, let us also note that we should not sit back, because there is still a great deal to do in the Dutch healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u29	Is Mrs Dik-Faber aware that there has been a clear assessment of all kinds of health studies in Europe, that HCP is probably the most influential player in the field, but that the level of comparability of data and reliability is very much under discussion? It is fine that Mrs Dik-Faber refers to the report, but I would remind her that it is a comparison of all kinds of international research into healthcare systems and that it is under discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u30	I've taken note of this. I also wanted to point out in the follow-up to my story that we certainly should not sit back, because there is still a lot to improve in our healthcare system. For me, the report is no reason to be satisfied. On the contrary, I would like to say that. I hope that the Minister feels the same urgency as the Christian Union to continue working on our healthcare system and that she will not hide behind that report either. Last week there was a round table in this Chamber about our healthcare system. I would also like to make a few points here. I'll start with the GPs. They experience the contract with the health insurance company as a filling exercise in which they can still sign at the cross. Research carried out by the National Family Doctors Association shows that three quarters of the doctors who tried to talk to the health insurance company complained that there was no conversation. How does the Minister feel about that? Does it also see possibilities, for example, for multi-annual arrangements between health insurers and general practitioners? I now hear that general practitioners have difficulty investing in e.g. care for the elderly because they are not sure that this care will be bought back next year. I urge the Minister to play an active role, because we are now in a process of decentralisation. The general practitioner has a crucial role to play in ensuring that these decentralisations also succeed. I'd like to get the Minister's attention on this. The NZa will now examine the market power of health insurers. Previously, the NZa de Good Contracting Practices has drawn up good contractual practices, guidelines and guidelines. Actually, I don't hear much about that. Isn't it time for the NZa to set firmer rules for contracting? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. At the round table there was also a health insurance company that was negative about what he called "the switching industry." He thought presents were "abject and bullshit." Insurers should distinguish themselves by quality. I agree with him. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Is the Minister prepared to initiate an independent comparison site so that people can really make a good and transparent choice for a health insurance provider and be well informed about the policy they take out with the care and coverage associated with it? I'm coming to emergency care. In many regions the necessary has happened. Focusing complex acute care on fewer hospital sites is an irreversible process that often benefits the quality of care and is therefore also in the interests of citizens. But a lot of people get very angry about hospitals and insurers deciding about their hospital together. That doesn't feel right. Council members who wanted to offer a petition and council-supported motions were literally kept out of the door in Woerden. There's gotta be another way. The Christian Union advocates openness and participation to create support. What role does the Minister see for himself in this? Does she want to take this into account in her vision of care in the region, which will be sent to the Chamber before 1 March? The Zuwe Hofpoort Hospital and the municipalities in the care area are talking again. This should lead to a covenant, but before that there were months of uncertainty. Was this necessary now? I'm coming to Drenthe. The hospital in Meppel is now part of Isala in Zwolle. It is no longer to be regarded as a full basic hospital. More than two years ago, acute obstetrics moved to Zwolle. This has led to the necessary protests by the people. The intensivecare departments in Stadskanaal and Hoogeveen are also under discussion. There are plans to concentrate them in Emmen. There is a danger that its real concerns on the part of residents will be that only two hospitals will be left in Drenthe in the long run. There are many more examples. As far as my group is concerned, it is clear that in sparsely populated areas too, there must be a covering healthcare infrastructure. My group is very close to caring and caring in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u31	Mr. Chairman. Today we are officially discussing the direction of the health insurance company. That is where I think things are already going wrong: as if the health insurance company is in charge in the care sector. There are three equal parties in our healthcare system, each with its own role: the carers, the people concerned, the patients or the insured, and the health insurers. The balance between these stakeholders is lost. It is time to restore this balance to our healthcare system. We want good care for everyone, who also remains affordable in the long term. Poor care ultimately costs society a lot of money and costs our health. With good care, we can manage costs in a responsible way. That should be the adadium. Precisely because we insured people and give patients the room to choose, we create an incentive for insurers and providers to distinguish themselves positively on good care and at a good price. What is good care is determined together with the patient. So much for the ideal picture. In today's practice, large health insurance companies and large healthcare providers dominate. Purchases are made on price and hardly on quality. The patient and insured. The insured person should keep insurers keen on their role as a care buyer. How can they do this if there's a forest of policies? For basic insurance alone there are 70 policies and these policies are also sold through commercial comparison sites with a personal interest. We want insured people to choose content; let us make that possible. This can be done by introducing a commission ban on health insurance. Instead of commercial comparison sites with their own interests, there must be a reliable and independent site that helps people to choose the policy that suits them. A limited number of policies make it possible to choose content and force insurers to really show insured people what they are worth. This creates the right incentives for insurers to distinguish themselves on the combination of price and quality. I would like to receive a response from the Minister to these proposals. I would also like to hear whether she, like GroenLinks, believes that there should be a ban on the budget policy. This policy creates a division in care. For example, people with a budget policy now, as has been said before, have no access to all academic or specialised hospitals. There is only limited care available for people with a small wallet. GroenLinks finds that unacceptable. Smaller institutions and individual professionals suffer from the powerful position of health insurers. Contract negotiations are, in fact, not negotiations but dictations. Health insurers should focus their procurement policies on quality and thereby encourage the provision of good care. They are doing far too little now. That's a missed opportunity. Good care is more effective and costs less than bad care. Instead of collecting own quality information, insurers should use the available information on quality from the field, such as the ROM (Routine Outcome Monitoring) in the ggz and the quality registrations of the DICA (Dutch Institute for Clinical Auditing) standard in contract negotiations. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. In quality development, the lead lies with caregivers and patients. My group sees it as a task of health insurers to contribute financially to the expansion of proven successful methods of achieving uniform quality standards. Does the Minister agree with me that the field should be able to develop the most important uniform quality standards within one year? This can only be achieved if health insurers are placed in place for their own quality questions and contribute to the financing of uniform quality standards established by providers and patients. In the main agreements, the Minister has shown that she is well placed to commit parties to a common ambition. Is the Minister prepared to take the initiative for an administrative agreement on quality? I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u32	Mrs Ellemeet was present today with a big piece in daily Trouw. It outlined the contours of the story that we heard today. Now she also outlines that GroenLinks wants the refund policy to be cheaper and available to everyone. The refund policy is a policy the insurer has nothing to say about. All care is reimbursed at the price for which the healthcare provider provides it. So by definition, it's a very expensive policy. Mrs Ellemeet now promises that it will also be a cheap policy. If the insurer doesn't play a role in this, there are only two ways to realize it: either you undress the package, or you greatly increase your own risk. What does GroenLinks choose for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u33	During the hearings, which Mr Rutte unfortunately did not attend last week, insurers indicated that they are making a profit on the refund policy and that the difference in price may therefore be smaller. We can, in consultation with the insurers, see what should be a reasonable maximum price difference between the refund policy and the natural policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u34	I'm gonna try one more time. We can find out everything about the profit margins of health insurance companies. They also make a profit on natural policies. That's what it takes to have a healthy business operation. If they don't, the reserves will run out and the government may have to intervene. I certainly don't want to. If you assume that the insurer is not allowed to direct because he is not allowed to buy and therefore there is no mechanism to control the price at a refund policy, then there is only one way to ultimately make that policy cheap, namely by undressing it. Why doesn't GroenLinks honestly say that this is the only way? Or admit honestly that the policy is not going to be cheaper!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u35	The health insurance companies themselves state that this was also the case last week when it was possible to reduce price differences. That's possible; that's what they're indicating. The question is: do we want insurers to make large profits on the sale of policies or do we want to reduce it to a reasonable difference so that it is possible for everyone, including those with a small wallet, to choose the policy that suits him or her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u36	Thank you very much for your contribution, Mrs Ellemeet. I would have liked to give the floor to Mr Van Klaveren, but I do not see him in the Chamber. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Dijkstra on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u37	Mr. Chairman. The debate we are having tonight is, like last night, a merger of two thirty-member debates that have been on the table since last spring. In fact, this evening, too, the current situation has partly changed compared to the time when the debates were requested. However, the subject of tonight's debate, the direction of health insurers in our healthcare system, is important. It is a subject on which we must have a serious exchange of views in the Chamber. However, I would like to say this evening that my group does not really think it is a subject for a debate with four minutes' speaking time without a clear focus. I've noticed that in the introduction of everyone. A lot of different things are being raised. I think that the subject is too important and too complex. Two weeks ago, Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Bruins Slot and I organised a special procedural meeting on this subject, the role of health insurers in our system. As a result, we have agreed in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that we will soon come back to this in a comprehensive discussion. In my group's view, this does justice to the importance of the subject. However, there is another item on the agenda this evening. That is why I would like to highlight the issue raised by the insurers and their regional plans for emergency aid. When this debate was requested, the insurers refused to disclose those plans. In the meantime, we've been overtaken by the facts. The competition watchdog the ACM has actually struck a line through the approach of the health insurance companies. I have a few questions for the Minister. What does the decision of the ACM mean more in principle for the direction of the health insurers and the direction in relation to that region? We say that much more cooperation is needed in the region. How does the Minister see that? Does it still see problems in other areas in the future? What role does the Minister see for himself here, for example when it comes to the continuity of crucial care? The ball is now located at Zorginstituut Nederland to come up with quality standards for emergency services. I would like to hear from the Minister how things stand with this process, what the research of Zorginstituut Nederland looks like, which parties are involved and when we can expect results. The Minister is looking at me. She wants to hear the questions again. The health insurance companies have indicated that they now want to get quality standards for emergency care from Zorginstituut Nederland. These must be formulated by Zorginstituut Nederland. What is the state of play and what is the situation with the emergency services? This is what I want to leave it at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u38	Mr. Chairman. I have said it before: the VVD attaches great importance to solidarity between sick and healthy. That is why the VVD was at the basis of a healthcare system in which we have a very broad basic insurance and in which a lot of care is secured. That basic insurance is accessible to everyone; whether you are healthy or ill, whether you are poor or rich, you are always accepted on the same terms and conditions and at the same premium. That's something to cherish. That's something to be proud of. We are also proud that we have a system in which innovation is possible, in which we have the very best care. Even if that care is provided in what is called a "private clinic" abroad, but what we call a "self-employed treatment centre," it is covered by basic insurance. You don't have to take care of that in private. That is different in many countries. The VVD attaches importance to our system, because it is a good system for patients and for contributors. I am pleased if this week the Health Consumer Index will come out again, the research in which the VVD... No, not the VVD. This study reaffirms that our system is the best system in Europe. So that is not the system of the VVD. It concerns our healthcare system and the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u39	Has Mr Rutte read that report he's talking about? Or has he only read the ANP press release stating that the Netherlands has the best healthcare system? If you read the report further, it says that the Dutch healthcare system is so good because the funders of the system are at a distance, which determines treatments by the medical professionals and not by the health insurance companies. Let that be exactly the point that this cabinet wants to get rid of. The health insurance companies need to gain more power from this cabinet. The cabinet almost fell over here just before Christmas. If Mr Rutte thinks that this research is so good, I wonder what he thinks of the fact that those health insurers are at a distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u40	It is very good that we have arranged it in the Netherlands in such a way that there is a distance between the financier and the one who determines the quality. We have for a reason the Quality Institute, which is the driving force behind the quality standards. It is not for nothing that medical professional associations set quality standards. The legislative proposal for the amendment of Article 13, which the PVV co-voted against, included five amendments in order to regulate even better and even more stringently the quality standards that health insurers are allowed to purchase. We think that is very important. Apparently, the PVV thinks that's a little less important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u41	The strength of our healthcare system is that the financiers are remote. That means the health insurance company is remote. This cabinet is abolishing the free choice of doctors, with the support of the VVD. But this is exactly why we're so good. That'll kill the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u42	That's not true. We do attach ourselves to that distance. We want objective quality criteria. That's gotta be better. That's what the bill said. That is one of the main reasons why we support that bill. That bill also contained a ban on vertical integration. The research report also confirms that it is important that the health insurance provider should not also be the provider of the care. We think that is very important. That distance must continue, as there must be a distance between politics and care. That also makes up for our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u43	We can discuss that report and the investigation for a very long time. I have just read a quote to Mrs Dik-Faber, which shows that there are serious doubts about the reliability and comparability of the data. Nevertheless, I would like to offer the VVD that there is a research agency that says: the healthcare system in the Netherlands is number one. But now I have here the International Health Policy Survey of Radboudumc, co-financed by VWS. There are also very interesting things in it. What I find so interesting is that it's really about our country. Patient experiences are compared with those in other countries. It says, for example, that our country's healthcare consumption is low, but also that more than one in five respondents, 22%, have reported having had a concrete experience in which they have given up care due to costs. Is that still within the scope of accessible care for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u44	I think that's a good question. The European Commission has said from the Euro Health Consumer Index that this is the most accurate and reliable comparison of healthcare systems. So we still have a source of support to say that it is a good report. I do not doubt the quality of Mrs Leijten's report. We have often had an interrupting debate on the waiver of care. I think that's unwise. People shouldn't do that. I think it is very good that people handle care very consciously and make an effective choice to look at it at the moment they can. I also agree that if they have a choice, they should opt for a cheap option. That's not a problem either. But when it's necessary, people shouldn't give up on care. That is precisely why we have a care allowance, which not only compensates for the premium, but also our own risk. We are doing a great deal about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u45	The following sentence in the report I have just quoted is: In particular, the conduct of a doctor's recommended examination or treatment after treatment is omitted, reports 16% of respondents. That's a lot. What I regret is that we have not received this report. The debate on the accessibility of our system is very common, but my question was: does the VVD find one in five, 20%, which is not caring acceptable? In 2010 it was 6%. That's what the investigation says. Is that an acceptable percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u46	I don't want to talk about what percentage is acceptable. It's just like I said. I think it's okay for people to consider: do I need care or can I watch it for a while? I also welcome the fact that people make a choice for a cheap option if it is available. But I don't think people should give up on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u47	I would like to return to the point made earlier by Mr Rutte about the importance of innovation, including in basic insurance. I share that with him; that is extremely important. I believe that innovation can only come about really well when there is a interaction between providers, patients and health insurance companies, where insurers finance innovation and innovative ideas from providers and patients. It is now the case that insurers hardly sign on to quality. That is a prerequisite for real innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u48	Your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u49	My question is this. Indeed, there is still limited quality information. We must continue to work on this. We already have a lot of information on the ROM in the ggz and on the clinical audits at the medical specialists, but this information is hardly used in the contract. Does Mr Rutte agree with me that it is desirable for insurers to include this in their contracting policy in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u50	I'm very much in favour of that. I am also very much in favour of this kind of new standards being put in place as quickly as possible in the quality standards and that they are therefore also undisputed. In this way, more and more quality care is bought in. It is not at all the case that health insurers are not interested in the quality of care and do not invest in it. Insurance companies invest in many innovative pathways around care. The biggest challenge is not even to trigger innovation, but to structurally anchor it in the contracting of care. That is very difficult, because we are actually struggling to say goodbye to the old throughout the country. The innovative treatment is added, but the old one also remains, while it may have been much less. We have to do something about that with each other. I have said something about this in the debate on the budget, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u51	The insurers still indicate that there is little quality information available that they can use when contracting. This is what I'm fighting. There is already a great deal of information available for uniform quality standards. My question is: does Mr Rutte agree with me that insurers should perhaps be put under pressure to allow the quality information that is there to lead in their contracts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u52	I don't know if they should be put under pressure. These standards should, above all, really be countries in directives. At that time they are really undisputed and can be used. What I do not want is what we already have, namely that an insurer embraces a standard and that there is another discussion about it. The insurance company always gets the blackbird. We shouldn't want that. Let them really be standardised and countries in directives. And yes, they must be leading the buy-in as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u53	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u54	That's what I'm gonna do. The VVD was and is enthusiastic about the system. That doesn't mean there can't be any better things. There's gotta be some things better. We will always be committed to avoiding risk selection. That is extremely important. It is also very good that this is widely shared in the Chamber. We have repeatedly indicated that we want our settlement system to be sharp and that it improves where possible, so that we can ensure that those who are ill are always admitted to insurance and that good care is always available for those who are ill. As Mrs Dijkstra said, this is one of the main points to be discussed in the general consultation on the health system. This is an interesting point and we have time for it. Furthermore, the VVD believes that there should be much more transparency around the purchase. Several people have already said that tonight. We're right in front of that. That is why we have tabled five amendments to the bill which has unfortunately been killed. We have done this precisely in order to get much more transparency around the purchase of care and to ensure that in April we already know what the policy is, that everything was bought in November and that the customer who takes out a policy knows exactly what he or she chooses for and where he or she is in order. That is extremely important and it should be done better. I hope that we can quickly come to good new solutions and discuss them with the Chamber in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u55	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u56	Mr. Chairman. Where Dutch care is international, a bit depends on the list one is looking at. Of course, I am proud if we become the number one on a list, if the research techniques of that list are based on scientific grounds and international statistics and data are used. If that's the way the Netherlands works out, I'm very happy about that. We also have other data. We have lists of, for example, the OECD of The Commonwealth Fund. Actually, we score well everywhere. It is an important notion to know: we have dilemmas, other countries have dilemmas; how do you solve them? The most remarkable thing I find is that you see internationally that the systems are growing towards each other. Where we used to have really public systems and really private systems, you see that all these systems are becoming more and more a mix. After all, the public is needed to guarantee solidarity and private is needed to ensure efficiency and innovation. These mixed systems are really moving up and you can see that they deliver the best results. The growth of costs was still 10% at the beginning of this century and now stands at 1%. For the first time, we're within the estimates. We have not achieved the moderation of this growth, as shown by the EHCI study which several of you have talked about today, among other things, by greatly increasing our own payments. We did not achieve that moderation by undressing the package very much, but by improving the quality of care. That is also the way in which we would like to moderate this growth. We have a half cut of the avoidable mortality. We have an increasing life expectancy. We have more and more deadly diseases that are becoming chronic. It is also very important to note that our department regularly receives delegations from all over the world, saying: how do you do it in the Netherlands? Can you explain that to us? Does that mean our system is finished? No, it's not finished. There's gotta be a lot of improvement. Some of the things that need to be improved and which my concern now goes to, I mentioned in a letter to the NZa which I also sent to the Chamber. Now look at the number of policies, for example, I asked the NZa. Isn't it true that in a sector where you can choose, you first get a kind of explosion and a lot of offers, and that then slowly goes back to a clear set where people actually know what they're choosing? I think care is too important to wait for the time when the number of policies will fall again. The number of policies is, I think, so high that you no longer see the forest through the trees. This increases the intransigence and therefore makes choosing more difficult. That's why I wrote to the NZa in December: check it out! Is my feeling true, and if so, what can we all do about it? I also asked the NZa whether there was indirect risk selection in this last round, so that people suddenly got a black screen when they filled in their age of 65, or because people who did not want to have insurance companies had to apply for a policy via difficult paper detours. In other words, is there an indirect risk selection in our system? For example, I have asked a whole set of questions to the NZa with the request to analyse it now and to indicate what I can do about it if it is indeed so. I hope it isn't, but if it is, I'd like to hear suggestions about what I can do about it. Are you suggesting a number of measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u57	I understand the Minister has put these questions to the NZa. I assume, however, that the Minister, with all her experience, has ideas about this too. I would like to ask the Minister whether she agrees with me that a limited number of policies will also encourage insurers to offer the very best they have, on quality and on price. And does she agree with me that with a limited number of policies they give an impetus to what we all want in care, namely good care at a reasonable price and available to everyone? This forest of policies does not stimulate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u58	That's an assumption. I don't know if that's true. That's why it's so important for the NZa to figure this out for me. I asked the NZa an important question. Does the various policies of an insurer show that certain healthcare providers have been contracted in all those policies? If that is the case, this means that the insurer has contracted on quality. If there is no line in that, the prize plays a major role. That's my assumption and I'll put it back to the NZa. The NZa can give her opinion on that. I think it is important that we examine this with each other. I share your feeling that there are too many policies, because otherwise I would not have asked the NZa in December to give me an insight into them. I also share your feeling that this does not make the choice easier, but rather clouds it, which reduces competition. You don't have a lot of eyes on it. I asked the NZa to do this so that we can at least be sure of this for the next time. We've got another year to go now. I'll wait and see what conclusion the NZa comes to, and then I'll decide what we're gonna do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u59	I would ask the Members and also the Minister to be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u60	Do I hear the Minister say that she wants to do everything in her power to reduce the number of policies in the next year of contract if the NZa says that this is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u61	If the NZa concludes that the large number of policies does not improve competition on price and quality, I am certainly prepared to take action. Otherwise, I wouldn't have it examined. If the NZa comes to the conclusion that this is the case, it depends on whether I need a law or not. With a law, it always takes a little longer to do something about it and the risks of bringing it to a successful conclusion are a little greater. So I should hear from the NZa again how to counter that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u62	The minister says that health insurance companies buy on quality. Does the Minister consider cancer care in a hospital under enhanced supervision of the Health Inspectorate better than cancer care in the specialized Antoni van Leeuwenhoek hospital?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u63	If a hospital is supervised and no insurer sends its patients there because it is supervised, then the hospital is acutely bankrupt. No patients are out of hospital. We ask the inspection to put a hospital under supervision so that care can be provided at the level we have established with each other. If the inspection considers that care falls below the bottom as we have defined it, it will close the department.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u64	If I am wrong, I like to hear it, but here I hear that health insurers do not have to buy the best care, according to the Minister, but care does not fall under any particular soil. I hear the Minister say that now, when she has always said that health insurers buy at the highest quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u65	It is intended that the insurer buys on the relationship between price and quality. We have set a quality standard with each other and this is monitored by the inspection. If you're up there, we think that's acceptable, but if you're under there, it's not. Those standards are set by the field. Those are guidelines, field standards and protocols. That's what the inspection oversees. If a hospital is unable to comply with field standards, guidelines and protocols, the inspection will close the hospital. If it is concerned, it will monitor more closely to ensure that the protocols, directives and so on are followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u66	It is clear that the health insurance companies do not buy on quality, because then you cannot exclude a specialised cancer centre like the Antoni van Leeuwenhoek hospital. That's obvious. I'll turn it around. Suppose all health insurance companies say we don't contract care at the Antoni of Leeuwenhoek. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u67	We have a duty of care in the Netherlands. That means that if you need specialised care that you can't get into every hospital, you have to get it, whether that care is contracted or not. For example, you have this specialized care in the Antoni van Leeuwenhoek, but also in Daniel den Hoed and in specialized, in this case oncological centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u68	Yeah, but the moment that no health insurance company has signed a contract with a hospital, a hospital like that is going to anticipate. It will say: we must close our doors. You may need that specialized care, but what if only Daniel den Hoed is left? Then there's a waiting list. I'm not asking this question for nothing. The Minister is hiding behind the statement that there is a basic standard that you should not fall through, because the inspection will otherwise intervene. The rest is up to the health insurance company. The health insurance provider could therefore also exclude very necessary care. I would like the Minister to take this up a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u69	The insurer cannot rule out any necessary care. Whether it's top care, academic care or general care: he can't rule out care. He has a duty of care. We have specialised centres that do good work and are also contracted. Maybe they're not signed by all the insurance companies. They will then contract other specialised centres. That's how our system was built.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u70	I hear the Minister say something very important. There's been a lot of misunderstanding about academic care. This week there was another case of worried parents who had to go to an academic hospital. They said: my child might not have been able to get care, with very serious consequences. Well, I saw Marcel Levi at Buitenhof the other day, the boss of the AMC. He said people always get academic care, guaranteed regardless of the policy. Can the Minister say that again here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u71	The insurer has a duty of care. Whether it's very simple care or academic care, you're entitled to that. You'll get the care you need. Sometimes a lot of people offer that kind of care. You'll have a lot more choice. Sometimes this care is very specialised and, for example, there is only one academic hospital that can provide that care. You're gonna have to go to that one hospital, even if it's far away. There's no doubt about that. I've turned that in a couple of times myself. Indeed, following a newspaper article, this has been discussed before. There must be no misunderstanding about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u72	Mrs Ellemeet, you only have three interruptions. You know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u73	I'd like to continue with this, Mr. Chairman. In theory, people are always entitled to the care they need. In practice, there is a budget policy where there is limited contract and where patients and sometimes also healthcare providers are not aware that referrals can be made. In practice, some people don't get the care they need right now. That is a consequence of this budget policy. It has an effect that is undesirable, because it is unclear about the right of patients to the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u74	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u75	My question is whether the Minister recognizes that this budget policy has an effect which, in practice, means that not all people, and certainly not the people with a small wallet, are given the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u76	No, I'm really throwing that far from me. There was a discussion about this, because it was not on the website of a health insurance company at some point. He fixed it right away. We have legally agreed that you have the right to care if you need that care medically. You can get any policy to a doctor who thinks he can do it himself, when he might not be able to do it himself. It's possible. Well, that has to do with the doctor's judgment. In the Netherlands, however, you have that right. If people need a certain therapy that is not available in the Netherlands, while that is the state of science, we'll even send them abroad now. We have established in the law that, if you need medical care and the health care provider has not purchased that care, you can then get it based on restitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u77	An insured person who has a budget policy has a limited number of contracted providers. As a result, this patient goes to a hospital where doctors may not be able to give him the care he needs. That is a direct consequence of this policy. In theory, the doctor has the ability to refer, but that does not always happen in practice. This is an effect of this budget policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u78	What is your question, Mrs Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u79	Does the Minister recognize this? Does she want to admit that practice is undesirable? Does she agree with me that it is therefore desirable to delete the budget policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u80	No. However, I do believe that you can get certain forms of care, such as breast cancer care, in far too many centres. I think it would be very good to concentrate on that. To that end, I encourage insurers. Patients cannot go to these centres in this way, but only in a contracted centre. In this way, patients no longer end up in centres where doctors do surgeries while those doctors there do not actually have the latest technology available and are not well aware of that latest technology. Contracting is also intended in our system to make quality agreements. With the refund policy you may be able to go anywhere, but this is the danger that you may think that you will receive the same care everywhere in the Netherlands. I'm afraid that's not the case. One healthcare provider is better than the other. One healthcare provider is more skilled than the other. One healthcare provider is more specialised than the other. What's it gonna take? It is very necessary for the patients to have more insight into this. He must be able to watch and control much more. He must also be able to control his health insurance provider's contracting policy by seeing his health insurance provider's purchasing policy. That's what we were gonna settle in the bill. That's much more important. It is absolutely absurd that you could not get certain care on a budget policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u81	I have a procedural point, Mr President. The Minister spoke about a request from her to the Dutch Health Authority to investigate the number of policies. I think that is a good request. However, she also said that she had sent that letter to the Chamber. I've been looking for him, but I can't find that letter anywhere. Would the Minister therefore like to find out for us when the Chamber received that letter? I can find that letter on the website of the NZa, but not in the system of the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u82	I sent that letter to the NZa. So he'll be on the website of the NZa. So that letter is public, but it wasn't sent to the Chamber. If the Chamber wishes to receive that letter, I can still send it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u83	Mr President, I have another procedural point. This is quite important policy information. The Minister notes that all Members of Parliament are concerned about the amount of policies. I would expect a letter on such a political subject to be sent to the Chamber. I would not have had to ask this question. I could have even praised the Minister on that point because she wants to take this actively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u84	So that's a really missed opportunity for myself. In December I did indeed exchange this extensively in the Upper Chamber. That's right. That's where I walked by the letter. That was my assumption that this would also be shared with the House of Representatives. I see now that the letter is on the site, but has not been sent to the House of Representatives. I'll still send that letter to the House of Representatives. By the way, I have not yet received an answer to the letter, with results. I certainly wouldn't have denied it to the Chamber, because there are measures to that effect again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u85	The Chamber will still receive this letter. I think that answers your question, Mrs Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u86	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u87	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u88	I've also rode a service on the ambulance several times. I, too, always find that very educational. I believe that Mrs Leijten is working there very professionally and passionately, and that the work is of high quality. I find that as impressive as Mrs Leijten. We are therefore in agreement on this point. The insurers have made plans at some point to increase the quality of emergency services. Those plans have never actually become concrete or materialised, because the ACM has actually indicated that insurers should not do so together. The health insurance companies then decided to ask the Quality Institute the following question. If we cannot increase the quality of this emergency aid ourselves and jointly through purchasing, can you draw up those quality standards and criteria for us, on the basis of which we can then buy in? This is what the Quality Institute is doing. In reply to a question from Mrs Dijkstra, I say that the Quality Institute must have those quality criteria by the end of this year. On that basis, the health insurance companies can then buy in the emergency services.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u89	Can the Minister ensure that the analysis of where the quality is not in order and where there may be a surplus in emergency aid, so what has been the basis for making these plans, comes to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u90	The Chamber once received an analysis from the Health Council, which wanted to take very big steps in the emergency services. This would mean that in many rural areas there were problems with the emergency services. This concerns, in particular, acute midwifery care. We did not accept that analysis. We are now setting criteria. These are determined by patients, by providers and by insurers jointly at the Quality Institute. What comes out is public and published. On this basis, the health insurance companies can buy in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u91	Here too, as with the reduction of the number of beds in the ggz, there is a lack of an analysis of where the quality is not in order and where there is too much supply. I think we should talk about that. To be honest, I am concerned that, on the one hand, there are health insurers who feel that it can all be reduced and, on the other hand, they are at the table to produce so-called quality standards. This gives the impression that they can use their power through so-called quality standards, and that they will be able to use their power again when purchasing. I would like to see an analysis of where the emergency services are not in order, of which emergency services are not in order and of the consequences of reducing the number of emergency services. I also want to know what the goal of this decline is and how much of it needs to be removed. That's supposed to be public information. If it is not there, I would like the order given by the health insurers to the Health Insurance Institute to be sent to the Chamber so that it can possibly tell the Health Care Institute to take other factors into account as far as the Chamber is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u92	The aim was not to reduce the number of emergency services, but to increase the quality of emergency services. You should be taken to an emergency room at once where the knowledge about your condition is completely up-to-date instead of first coming to a wrong emergency room that provides more basic emergency assistance. There's been a lot of research on it. On that basis, the health insurance companies started their work. The ACM rejected that. Next, the Quality Institute has been involved and parties have jointly proposed indicators sets for five of the six diseases mentioned in the vision document of Zorgverzekerings Nederland. That is, by the way, a public document. Birth care was then put on hold in connection with the delivery standard birth care, mid-2015. The presented indicator sets will be submitted to the expert group of the Quality Advisory Committee of Healthcare Institute Netherlands. This is expected to be completed this autumn. In addition, Zorginstituut Nederland facilitates the process of jointly establishing a general quality framework for emergency care. Consultations with all the organisations concerned have begun. It is also expected that a common vision of quality of emergency care will be realised this year. That vision will also be public again. Zorginstituut Nederland has put the six diseases on its own agenda and calls on the field to develop standards together. For these six diseases there is already a lot of useful material. In the coming period, it will be examined with the parties concerned whether what lies ahead is complete and meets the criteria, such as tripartite support. It is based not only on content, but also on the involvement of all parties. Mrs Leijten asked me to respond to Numbeo's research, in which the Netherlands is number 17. Numbeo is an internet organization that collects internet data and opinions and is based in Serbia. It is true that the Netherlands is not at the top and Japan and France are. Numbeo arrives at the data by having visitors to the website fill out a questionnaire. Turns out what? There is no random sample, there is no objective information and there are very few respondents, namely 51 participants from the Netherlands over three years, 16 participants from Japan over three years and 53 participants from France over three years. So they've determined the score of that number 17. Then Mrs Leijten asks what I think of drawing on the cross. In the evaluation of the Wmg and the Health Insurance Act, we have seen the analysis that hospitals have a lot of power over health insurers. The health insurance company's actually out there at a distance. In the Netherlands there is always the picture that health insurers have a lot of power, but that is not the case in the second line. In the first line, it's turned around. There, health insurers have a great deal of power over the individual professional. I have promised to respond to this evaluation, but I have said before that I am looking for another model of contracting. I am in agreement on how we can achieve a quality exchange. You can't talk to 8,500 GPs and so many thousand psychotherapists and physiotherapists. That's physically impossible. How can you get that quality aspect in these negotiations? I'll get back to that in the Chamber. Mrs Leijten also asked what I think of the conflict between DSW and ZN. I don't like that. ZN is a private club that has a member. I don't know if they have a conflict. I feel like they're not the best friends, but I'm out there. I am not responding to that. Mrs Leijten also asked me what I think of an International Health Policy Survey by the Commonwealth Fund. That's not an investigation commissioned by VWS. That is a research to which we pay financially so that reviews can be made. That is what we do at Commonwealth, but also at OECD. This is not done on our behalf, but we do offer that opportunity so that they can do their job. I have agreed with the Chamber that before the summer we will come up with results from the research on care avoidance, which we do together with patients and general practitioners on the basis of micro data and data from the Netherlands. How do I feel about Achmea not having a contract with the best Dutch cancer centres? If Achmea does not have a contract with a healthcare provider who provides care that may be medically necessary, but which is provided by another contracted person, then Achmea will eventually have to pay a refund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u93	We have had a lot of discussion about care avoiders in the Netherlands. Perhaps I am quoting the Minister wrongly, but she has said that there is a cry for help that the general practitioners have to say: they may not have the right perspective on reality because they only see patients, and that is why they see more concern. That's a little paraphrased what the Minister said. She wants to do her own research, but there was already a scientific research, namely that which was not on her behalf, but which she paid for, from the Commonwealth Fund. This shows that one out of five refrains from caring because of the costs, i.e. 22%. In 16% of people, this balance occurred after hearing from the doctor that it would be good if they were further examined or treated. Was the Minister aware of this or had she no knowledge of this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u94	It is so unfortunate that I never recognize myself in Mrs Leijten's summary of my words, even though they were a while ago. It is not that I have said bathingly that general practitioners do not know whether they have a selective view of reality. There are several reasons. One is that the LHV has carried out an investigation. Another is that people have been investigated by telephone. You might wonder if it's actually true. There are signs, because those people who have been interviewed on the phone indicate that there might be something going on. I've been asked by several MPs to get a look at care avoidance. All these signals have led us to agree on this research; with whom I do so, namely with the general practitioners and with the patients and on the basis of what data.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u95	That's not an answer to my question. This report is from 2013. The Minister could have known about this, because we had this discussion in autumn 2014. She did say that she felt that the question posed in the general practitioners' survey was wrong and that it might not lead to a reliable outcome. This was there by then. We can discuss for a very long time what system we have, but 22% is too much, really too much. Did the Minister know that this report was there? Then why is it necessary to do further research? I note that while conducting the investigation, the risk itself was simply increased. That wasn't put on hold. Did the Minister know about the figures in this investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u96	This has not been an increase in one's own risk but an indexation. The law stipulates that we do so every year on the basis of increased costs and so on. There is therefore no active increase. All we did was enforce the law. Moreover, this is a 2013 report. We had discussions on this in 2014. This is an indication, that's all. It's a telephone interview that's been held with people. In addition, there have been signals from the National General Medical Association and there are politicians who have asked me. I have said that I am going to investigate all these signals and come forward with the results before the summer. I've been asked if I'd like to quit the natural policy. In the Netherlands, we have a system in which health insurance companies have to buy in on price and quality. By doing so, you get an increase in quality and a reduction in price. If we didn't do that, the government would have to make price agreements, because if you could go anywhere like this, you'd have to put in maximum prices. Who else decides the price? If a provider can determine its price and there is no one who thinks it is too expensive, we will have a cost problem. Somewhere, there's got to be an affair where you tell me how the price comes into being. That's not because the insured person is going somewhere, because he outsourced it to the insurer. It does the price negotiations and the negotiations on the package and what happens in addition. That is the system and that is the backbone of our health insurance system. So I'm not going to abolish that backbone. I know the quote Mrs Klever mentioned. That is indeed part of the success. By the way, there's pluses and minuses in there. Despite the fact that we are on one with the highest score ever, the report also states where we could improve. The Netherlands doesn't have any real weaknesses. That's why we score so high, but we can improve on a number of points. That's what the report says. One of the important things is that in the office where and how care is given, what is needed and what is not. I think that's an important thing. Whether we have natural policies or an adaptation of Article 13 to that communication in the office about which treatment is chosen does not involve an insurer, politician or other financier. I am proud that we have arranged this and would not wish to arrange it otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u97	The treatment chosen will be determined by the doctor and the patient, at least it should be. However, the insurer does intervene, because it has all kinds of targets and reward plans for prescribing certain preferred medicines. If you reach a certain target, you get a bonus. If you don't get it, there's a penalty on it. So the insurance company is definitely in the office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u98	No, if there's a medical indication why you should take a speciality, you have that medical indication, and then you can just get that speciality. Then it doesn't matter which policy you have. If a generic product that is cheaper is sufficient, that is sensible and economical care. Then I don't see why you should have the same expensive drug. If you have a medical indication because, for example, you cannot handle the filler or otherwise have a reaction to the generic, you are entitled to a speciality. We must also ensure that it remains affordable. In your speech, you often talk about the contributor. That contributor doesn't have to pay more than is necessary. However, we must have care that is of good quality. We'll do it regardless of the wallet. Whether you have a large or a small wallet, in the Netherlands you just lie next to each other in a hospital bed and the same doctor will visit you. I attach great importance to this system and I would also like to maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u99	Then how does the Minister look at the bonus systems that the health insurance companies tell doctors? How does the Minister view the sanctioning systems? The doctor is considered to prescribe a certain percentage of a particular medicine. Suppose that doctor happens to have a few more patients who can't handle a generic drug and who have a medical need. Surely there should be no bonus or sanction on the part of the health insurance provider?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u100	That's not the health insurance company, that's us. We have all set financial targets. Then we can do different things. We need to reduce the package, raise our own risk or do more for less money in the system. Then it's a shame that certain doctors don't prescribe generics at all when they can? We have made agreements with general practitioners that, if possible, they prescribe generically. If it is not possible, however, a speciality is always possible. It's just from this room. We had to get 1.5 billion out of the package. In addition, the Minister of Finance also came up with 1 billion. There were coalition agreements. However, we have said that we are not going to get it from the patient, but from the system. That's exactly what's happening here. The package has not been reduced and its own risk has not been increased. We are not talking about the patient's back because of these measures, but about the efficiency of the system. That's in many election programs. We have spoken on several occasions about the reserves. That too is mainly from this house, namely Solvency II. Insurance companies need to hold more reserves. That's what we agreed to here. First it was 11%, now it goes from 15% to 17%. That's a big increase. Definitions have also been used which require more reserves. So we can very much give it to an insurer who does this, but we make the rules here. If they do not comply, the Dutch Bank will be on the doorstep.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u101	If we keep the Solvency II requirements, the health insurance companies still have 3 billion too many reserves on the shelf. Does the Minister think that this amount of EUR 3 billion should remain on the table for health insurers, or does she think that this should be returned to the contributor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u102	In the end, it benefits the people who pay for it. After all, we do not have health insurance companies that pay off profits. Maybe they're holding on to that buffer because they think politics is gonna override the district nurse. They will then have to provide an additional buffer for this. There may also be a Solvency II where they do not have to hold the same reserves by default, but where an insurer with more vulnerable insured persons has to hold more reserves. Maybe a health care provider would like to take a good look at that. I don't think that's unwise. If he doesn't need that reserve, it'll eventually go back to the payer. This year, too, we have seen that reserves have been used to reduce the premium. VWS itself had a much higher estimate for the premium. I think it is important that the health insurance provider is transparent about it. That is why, at the request of this Chamber, we have asked insurers to show on their site what they keep from the premium in reserve, which goes back to the contributor and what they spend on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u103	The health insurance companies have 10 billion euros in reserves. The Netherlands Bank has made demands. Solvency II has made demands. In addition, this amounts to EUR 7 billion. So there's 3 billion too many. What do health insurance companies do with that? They're gonna invest. They're at risk on those investments. That money's just supposed to go back to care. The minister says they gave it back. In a letter to the Chamber, can the Minister indicate exactly how many of these reserves went into a refund of the premium? How much lower has the premium become than thanks to this return? We have had this discussion many times. The Minister keeps saying that the money goes back to the contributor, but the premium has only gone up. In a letter to the Chamber, can the Minister explain exactly how that money went back to the contributor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u104	The premium has gone up, but the district nurse has also gone to the Health Insurance Act. It has to be paid for and it is paid out of the premium. We do this in five steps on the premium with a state contribution. I've substantiated the premium, and I've explained why the premium has increased. However, I do not need to show where it went, because you can see for yourself. Each insurer shows on the site how much they have withdrawn from the reserve and paid the premium. We have made agreements with the health insurance company and you can see that on the website of every health insurance company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u105	It should be on the site, but it is almost untraceable; there is still a world to win. However, I hear the Minister say that Solvency II may also be subject to further demands. If you, as a health insurance provider, have a vulnerable insured population, you may be made subject to further requirements. This may be understandable from the financial point of view, but translated into health insurance is an additional risk of risk selection. To what extent does the NZa look into this issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u106	The Minister of Finance, together with the Dutch Bank, is very dominant. They have a big voice in that. They sit with them and they decide what those demands are. It's a weighting: do you want that population to count or not? You can argue that this should not necessarily be the result of the risk settlement, but that reasoning has not been taken up. That's what's decided internationally. These are discussions in which the financial side of our cabinet and our society ultimately take the decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u107	I understand that, but I would like this additional risk of risk selection to be taken into account by the NZa.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u108	No, that's the Dutch Bank!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u109	Yes, the Nederlandsche Bank holds financial supervision, but the NZa looks at the risk selection and settlement system and what possible new risks come our way. This is one of them. If this is decided at European level, we will have an additional risk on the health insurance side. Since she is sending a letter with the Minister of Finance on a number of issues relating to Solvency, I would ask the Minister to take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u110	Yes, I will. The NZa had nothing to say about this decision, but I will take that into account in the letter. Mrs Klever asked a question about transparency and the Quality Institute. I share the urgency with her. That is also why the year of transparency has been declared. With regard to her remark that the terms of purchase had to be public, I must inform her that this was stated in a bill that was rejected. Mrs Bouwmeester asks how we can break the deadlock in the short term. This is part of the agenda for the year of transparency. The Chamber will have that agenda very soon. In particular, in the first half of this year it is a question of pooling what is already there. There is indeed a great deal, as Mrs Ellemeet actually said. We could use that much better. The health insurance companies can find that much better and already partially on purchases, but the patient can't find it. If he can find it, he can't understand it. I come to the influence of the insured on the insurers. That was part of the law I'll come back to later. The question is whether I recognise the legitimacy of the insurers and how they can be restored. I think that this is partly due to the political task we have placed on insurers. That's an extra pressure from the system. That doesn't make you popular with providers, because you say they have to do more for less. That is what is in the main agreements, and we are therefore responsible for it ourselves. However, there are also lessons to be learned in the way insurers conduct contracts. We see great differences between insurers there. There, too, improvements are possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u111	I have a question about the influence of insured persons on health insurance companies. The Christian Union considers it very important that health insurance companies become real cooperatives again. We had tabled an amendment to anchor it in the law. That law isn't here right now. However, the First Chamber adopted a motion by Mr Kuiper, which also talks about the influence of insured persons. In my view, therefore, there is nothing at the moment that prevents the Minister from getting to work on this and having a discussion about it. I would actually like to ask: what is she waiting for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u112	That bill was rejected. It wasn't in there; it would be an AMvB. That bill was rejected. There is now a list of ways in which we can achieve the important objectives that that bill had. I'll get back to the Chamber as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u113	I refer again to the motion adopted by the First Chamber. The bill has been rejected, but a motion has also been passed. That is absolutely the position of the insured person.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u114	I understand. You also saw my reaction to that motion. I'm gonna go on the restraining order. I have been asked to take action on the number of policies. That was Mrs Bruins Slot's first question. I replied to that. I was assuming that the Chamber had that letter, so I apologize for that. A question has been asked about Apeldoorn. I have said that, in any hospital, if you have a policy in which a particular hospital is not contracted, you will have to have that care at a reasonable distance. That is what the law requires, and in that the health insurance provider has a duty of care. The healthcare provider has no insight into the policy. Mrs Bruins Slot asked about the unique health insurance identification code (uzovi code): should not each policy have its own uzovi code so that the healthcare provider knows which policy the patient has? Healthcare insurers The Netherlands is currently creating a portal for healthcare providers, in which the patient can be linked to the policy he has. That process is under way and will be completed this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u115	The minister just answered a question from me, but I had actually asked another question. My specific question was: can a healthcare professional refer a person to a non-contracted healthcare professional if there is a medical need to do so and will that be reimbursed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u116	If the policy does not include a healthcare provider who can also provide for that medical necessity, he can simply refer it to it and must be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u117	A health care professional who normally has contact with the Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital, can therefore, despite the fact that there is a medical need, not refer to that hospital if another academic hospital is contracted to provide the same care. Then how do you find out you're not that exception?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u118	If the health care provider has contracted certain care elsewhere and if that care is also available within reasonable distance and within reasonable time, you go to that contracted provider; that's right. You can see on your site who's contracted. I will deal with the availability, the policy rules and the question of what is going on with that report. We haven't gotten that from the NZa yet. The NZa has informed us that the report is due in the second half of January. Before 1 March, I will give myself a vision of shrinking regions. I will try to link that up so that we can still include the proceeds of the investigation in that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u119	This is about the ZorgSaam Hospital and Gemini Hospital. The minister knows they're both sensitive hospitals: they're covered by the 45-minute standard. This concerns the provision of the contribution for 2012 and 2013. That's essential money the hospitals need to stay up. What's taking so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u120	The insurance company's just gonna have to pay for that. He's got to make sure that E.R.'s there. The availability fee is a decision. I'll set up the availability fee. That's a political arrangement. Furthermore, it goes to an independent administrative body, which is independent, as you know. In fact, you want it to be even more independent. The Zbo decides how the scheme is to be implemented. The Zbo has decided that it will be executed differently. I've asked questions about that. I said: it is a political arrangement; you are suddenly going to implement it differently; I would like to have an analysis. That analysis, that's how the Zbo let me know, I'll get it later than I asked. Well, that's what I'm waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u121	The aim of the scheme was always to help hospitals of this kind because we believe that people in the region need as much care as people living in a city. I find it really impossible for the Dutch Healthcare Authority to wait four months before it comes up with a good advice. If the objective of the scheme is not properly defined in the policy rules, should we not, politically speaking, complete the scheme in such a way that the decision cannot be changed except that we support this type of hospital because we simply have to provide good care there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u122	Mrs. Bruins Slot connects two things. The NZa has said that the insurer has to pay for this because it has a duty of care. So if the insurer has a critical hospital there, there's 45 minutes away and the care is crucial, then he just has to pay the costs. I said earlier that I have an availability arrangement for that. They say there: that is unnecessary, because the health insurance company simply has to pay. Then I asked: now give me an analysis of the impact this has on the sector and on the level playing field of insurers and hospitals. I have an independent supervisor for that. Mrs Bruins Slot has repeatedly stressed to the interrupting microphone how independent it is. I've asked you to speed it up. The NZa said: no, we can do that in February. I can't break iron with my hands. I'm just gonna have to wait neatly for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u123	Let me make a point of order. The Dutch Healthcare Authority has two tasks: a supervisory task and a policy task. We are indeed calling for the supervisory task to be independent. On the issue of policy, too, we have said that we need to look at the issue of independence on a number of points. I think it would be a good idea to write that down, because the Minister is now also throwing two things at a lot. So I thought it would be a good idea to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u124	Mrs Bruins Slot also said that the Minister is not about applying to individual cases. We really have the NZa for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u125	I would like to make a comment. A point of order must be a point of order. This was more of a factual remark. I'd like that noted in the Acts. This was not really a point of order. It's about other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u126	Your comment is entirely correct, Mr President. It was indeed a factual remark. However, the availability contribution is a generic scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u127	No, the availability fee is a general scheme that has been drawn up by me and is carried out individually by the NZa. It shall decide whether or not a person is entitled to that arrangement. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether doctors could not make multi-annual agreements, for example in contracts? It's possible. She also asked: is there no longer any possibility at that point? I can tell her that long-term contracts are also being concluded at the moment. That can certainly have advantages. It also provides long-term security. Indeed, this is now being made more use of. I'm here at the Good Contracting Practices. Isn't it time to make firm agreements about contracting? Yes, that is true, but I think that the part of the legislative proposal that says that there should be clarity about the purchasing condition, if I am not mistaken, Mrs Dik-Faber or Mrs Dijkstra has, of course, tabled an amendment to that effect. I will go into this in more detail in connection with the legislative proposal. I agree that presents are abject. Those presents are bullshit, all right. I think you should choose a health care policy based on a health care policy. Gifts are curtains hanging around them. You can see that this is done in many sectors of society. Of course, it's about the real policies and not about whether or not you get condoms. An independent comparison site was requested. There was a lot of discussion at the time about whether the government or the field should make the comparison site. It was said then that the field can do better. That's very good at making comparison sites. It does so in all kinds of other areas, so why not take care of it? Following this decision and the situation as we have seen it, the AFM and the NZa have looked into the possibility of improvements at the comparison site. I will come back to that too later. The next point is emergency aid and its concentration. I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber's remark that the aim is not concentration, but improvement of quality. You're not gonna concentrate to concentrate. I'd rather not! If we don't have to, we'd rather not. But we'll do it if it's necessary for the quality. The opinion of the municipality and its citizens is very important. I think it is even more important that there is a good distribution of certain specialist emergency services, including over the Netherlands. Basic emergency services are sufficient in many cases, for example in the case of a simple leg fracture, but they are not sufficient in many cases either. This is also apparent from the analyses that are underneath. We need to look at what is needed in this area for the Netherlands. Health care institute Netherlands and the tripartite consultations examine what success should be achieved in this area. I very much look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u128	I would like to come back to the issue of general practitioners. There has been a lot to do about the contracting of general practitioners. They really feel like they should do fill-in exercises, sign off on the cross. I think two things are necessary. These are first and foremost good contractual practices. Those are the Good Contracting Practices. I checked the website of the NZa. The information on this is really a year old, so I think it's completely quiet. I think it can help if there are clear rules of the game. The second point is probably an amendment to the Competition Act, because general practitioners have an unequal position vis-à-vis health insurers. Are these also the two points that the Minister is working on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u129	No, because I can't just change the Competition Act. You can't just give general practitioners a special status in it. All this has been sorted out in other debates a long time ago. I'm going to see if you could do it by a way where you create certain categories based on quality and where you say: one GP falls into such a category and it does this and this and this for it. Perhaps you can find a way in which you can also include your own guidelines and the things that general practitioners find in a bundling of the general practitioners when it comes to contracting. In that way, I'll look for it. You don't need an amendment to the Competition Act either, because it's quality-based. Quality is in the interest of the insured person, so this is allowed. If I make proposals, the Court can also expect them to be in line with the Competition Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u130	Mrs Dik-Faber has a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u131	I've been trying to figure out exactly which way it's going. Did the GPs get any help with this? If a general practitioner has something more to offer, he can check it out and then he gets a little more compensation for the practice, but that is not the way that general practitioners are helped with. That is what they have a crucial position to ensure that decentralisation succeeds and that additional people are hired to care for the elderly. So I'm not quite convinced yet. Would the Minister like to explain this one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u132	I haven't sent any plans about that to the Chamber yet. I am still in consultation with the LHV about the question: how do you see it yourself and how could you do it differently and better yourself? I am not making up a plan, but I will work with the LHV and with health insurers to see how we can create a mode in which everyone comes to their own. As soon as I've got that all figured out, I'll send it to the Chamber. But we are looking for a better mode, because we believe that the current situation is undesirable and does not lead to the best results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u133	Are you finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u134	I come to the hospitals that remain. I also believe that there should be a covering healthcare infrastructure. Then I'll be with Mrs. Ellemeet. I'll do the answer per member, Mr. Chairman. I've already dealt with some of her questions. Moreover, it has been agreed that, if quality indicators or other standards and standards are included by the Quality Institute where both patients, insured persons and professionals participate, insurers purchase them. That was Mrs Ellemeet's fourth question. Can I have the most important quality standards within one year? It's incredibly complex. In the year of transparency, I have also looked at how complex it is. But I'll be coming to the Chamber soon with a plan. It will then be able to assess this and indicate its views on the transparency plan. There has been talk of an administrative agreement on quality. All the administrative chords I've made had two components. Quality was a very important one. A lot of agreements have been made about quality. We still do. We always make new agreements on quality. There is therefore no need to hold separate consultations on this, because it is an integral part of the discussions that are already taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u135	In practice it appears that quality is taken into account, but that, when it comes to contracts and negotiations, the price dominates and the quality hardly matters. Does the Minister recognise that its influence and political mission in the field, i.e. to insurers and suppliers, can indeed speed up the development of quality? I agree with the Minister that it is complex. We've known that for years. It always turns out to be more complex than we hope. That just doesn't give us the quality information we want. Is that the fault of the insurers or the providers? It is important to make clear, business-oriented agreements on quality and to put quality at the heart of the matter. I think this Minister is quite capable of doing so. However, I have so far missed this in the agreements that have been made. Would the Minister like to pick this up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u136	This surprises me greatly, because I promised the Chamber that 2015 would be the year of transparency. 2015 will be the year in which we accelerate our understanding of quality. I am going to use the first half of the year to make everything that is there possible, and that is a great deal of information and understanding. I also want to make sure that people know where to find reliable information. That's what I do for the first six months. At the same time, we are already starting to fill the new quality indicators. If we have some insight, we can also see where something else is needed. That plan has been delayed. I've already admitted that in equestrian terms. I also said it's gonna be real soon. But the complexity has slowed it down. If we come up with such a plan, I'd like the patients, the doctors and the insurance companies to back it up. You can call it administrative consultation, but it's a joint plan. That's coming up soon, and it's only got one goal: super acceleration. I want a catch-up; I don't have any details about that. I promised you that a long time ago. In fact, I announced it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u137	What a pleasant surprise, so late at night. My question to the Minister is whether, as she has done in the area of price fixing, she can make concrete, measurable agreements on what she wants to achieve within a year in terms of quality development, so that healthcare providers and insurers know where they stand and insurers know what financial contribution they are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u138	I have already made this commitment to Mrs Dijkstra. It's gonna be a good night. Mrs Dijkstra asked a question about the ACM and the role of director. She asked what the impact of the decision was. The impact has been that the insurers have said: if we cannot do it this way, we will do it through the Quality Institute. That does indeed have an impact, because we also see in other areas that this leads to something. Insurers would very much like to buy proton therapy together, but they haven't done it yet because they don't know for sure if they can. This affects the discussion we have had before: should we not be able to introduce new, very expensive technologies gradually? How would you do that? The ruling of the ACM has therefore had a major impact. What's my role in that? It's very complex. You can't link it to the Special Medical Operations Act. That law is really based on quality. The judge flagged me back when I included efficiency aspects by not granting certain licences, because we had actually already granted enough permits for certain treatments. That's what we've been whistled back to. If we want a gradual introduction of certain things, we need to look at what can be done. Are there aspects of joint procurement? Do we have to tighten up other things for it? Do you have to come up with a law for that? So that's something that's up-to-date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u139	I thank the Minister for this answer, but what I meant by my question about her role was how to proceed with the emergency services. Of course, it's also about quality. The Quality Institute is involved in this. The Minister always says that she is responsible for the continuity of crucial care. I wondered to what extent the Minister also sees a role for herself in the follow-up to dealing with emergency aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u140	If those quality criteria have been established by the Zorginstituut Nederland, I assume that they will be bought in on this basis and that the inspection will be carried out on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u141	I understand that the Minister says: I leave this to the health insurers and the quality institute, and that is beyond me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u142	I never draw up guidelines or quality circleria. That's what the field always does. We have said that the field is doing this very slowly. That is why we have set up the Quality Institute, to be on top of that with perseverance. The Quality Institute has an important task to ensure that this is implemented with speed. That will be settled by the end of the year. I agree with Mr Rutte that we cannot tolerate risk selection in our system and that we need to focus on it. Transparency of purchasing is also part of the December letter. It is asked when I come with a response to the RVZ advice "The voice of insured people." I would like to point out that last year the report was offered to health insurance companies in the Netherlands and not to me. I've been asked to respond. I will take this reaction with me in the follow-up to the legislative proposal that has been agreed and in the new proposal that I come to the Chamber with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u143	This has put an end to the government's first term. Given that there will soon be a fairly long general consultation on relatively many of these issues, I wonder if there is a need for a second period. I note that there is a need for a second deadline for a few.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u144	Mr. Chairman. Not every E.R. does the same thing. An ambulance brother knows very well whether he can get close to the hospital with a certain calamity or whether he needs to scale up to a specialized hospital, for example in cases such as an infarction or neurological problems. I saw it last Monday. Therefore, the Minister should not suggest that all emergency services do the same. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers want to reduce the number of emergency services;]] [[considers that accessible acute care is a public matter;]] [[calls on the Government to submit plans to reduce emergency services to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-567]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u145	Discussing general practitioners are targeted by the Authority Consumer & Market, while health insurers are allowed to offer one preferred health insurance provider to submit a non-negotiable contract to general practitioners. I think that balance is totally flawed, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that general practitioners are prevented by the Competition Act from cooperating or consulting in the conclusion of contracts with health insurers;]] [[noting that the health insurance companies offer non-discriminatory contracts to general practitioners and health insurance companies operate jointly because the preferred health insurance provider concludes the main contract;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that general practitioners are no longer subject to the Competition Act and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-568]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u146	I have another motion and it's about the presents. I have also put oral questions on this subject, so I will not introduce the motion further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers attract new insured persons with gifts;]] [[noting that they focus on lucrative target groups and thus engage in risk selection;]] [[Considers that insurers derive from the content of the policy;]] [[calls on the government to prohibit health insurers from giving gifts to new insured persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-569]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u147	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first one is about the bounty money that's been piled up. The request is for that to be returned to the contributor. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the four major health insurers have built up reserves of EUR 9.7 billion;]] [[whereas this is much higher than the buffer requirement of the Netherlands Bank;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the excessive reserves of health insurers are demonstrably used to reduce the care premium,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-570]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u148	My second motion concerns the purchasing conditions of the health insurance companies. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurers indirectly limit the right to care when purchasing care, e.g. by determining which means should not be prescribed, threatening to impose sanctions or send them to preferential treatment by offering discounts;]] [[Considers that greater attention should be paid to transparency in care procurement policies and that agreements should be public and verifiable;]] [[calls on the Government to make public the terms of the care purchase,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-571]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u149	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers, also for her clear answers to the questions about the proliferation of policies. I welcome the doubts she also has about the amount of policies and that we can obviously work together to ensure that people get a good overview in the future. In 2011 we had a discussion here in the Chamber, because we felt that we could continue to provide good care for sensitive hospitals, hospitals in the region, which have to meet the 45 minute standard, in the form of emergency services. That was then the spirit and objective of that arrangement. As a lawyer, I think that you are making an arrangement that has a certain objective behind it; then you want that arrangement to work in the same way. If that scheme does not meet that objective, then you will see if you may have to adjust the scheme legally in such a way that it does. You have to do it correctly. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sensitive hospitals such as the Zorgsaam hospital and Gemini hospital must have emergency and acute obstetrics in order to comply with the 45 minute standard;]] [[Considers that the availability contribution of emergency and acute obstetrics is intended to provide financial support to sensitive hospitals;]] [[considers that this indirect risk selection by health insurers occurs, as insured persons may be loss-making in some regions;]] [[invites the Government to adapt the conditions set out in the Annex to Article 2 and 4 of the Decision on WMG availability contribution in such a way that this actually leads to hospital support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-572]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u150	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers she has given to the questions asked. Care close is crucial to us. I listened carefully to the motion from the CDA. I thought it was very sympathetic. I think that's an important key to keeping care close to reach. I still have to look at the text of the motion, but I think this could be a good step. That is very important. I'd like to file one motion. A second motion, which would deal with the position of the general practitioners, is not included. The Minister indicated that she was talking about this with the LHV, including with regard to contracting. My question to her is when this information will come to the Chamber. I'm not filing that motion right now because the conversation is going on. I would like to table the other motion, because of the importance of transparent, independent and clear information for people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are no independent comparison websites for health insurance;]] [[Whereas it is very important that people are informed independently and carefully about the policy they choose;]] [[calls on the Government to commission an independent comparison site for health insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-573]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u151	I am hearing a motion from the Christian Union with all kinds of considerations: it is important that the information is independent and reliable, which I can support. However, the effect is very compelling: the government has to make that site. In the case of the general practitioners, Mrs Dik just said: the minister is still working on it, she talks and then comes up with something. The same is happening with regard to this comparison site. There will be another story: can the market do it or should the government do it? How does the Christian Union view that? Isn't it better to wait before she finally tells the minister how to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u152	The motion does not state that the government itself makes the website, but that the government instructs it to do so. The government can guarantee independence. We can wait for an investigation, but if I look at the practice of the current comparison sites, I can already guess what's going to be in the report. You can see that the comparison sites don't allow people to choose the right policy. They are not sufficiently informed, and I am concerned about that. I want to change that, and I hope the VVD will, too. Maybe she can even support my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u153	I'm gonna try again. I think we want most of the same thing. If we can ensure with proper supervision that comparison sites only use independent and credible information, if what is compared is true, then the government doesn't have to order itself to build a site? Then you can use what's already there. That's very diverse and people can easily find it. The information must, of course, be credible. Could we agree on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u154	If the market picks it up and shows that he can do it, I'd be happy to have faith in it. Unfortunately, the current practice is that people choose a policy based on comparison sites that is less suitable for their situation. People only find out later that they are not insured for certain care. I regret to note that the market is not picking it up and that there are now poignant situations. Do we want to wait or do we already know what the outcome of the investigation is? This is a crucial point for my group. That is why I thought we should table this motion in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u155	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's commitment to putting forward concrete measures, a timetable and quality agreements. The field, the healthcare providers, the patients and the health insurance companies are all involved in this in their own role. I await the concrete results. I'm filing two motions. The first is about the budget policy and reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that budget policies may impede the access of insured persons to care;]] [[Considers that many people are not aware of the limited access to or reimbursement of care when concluding the policy and that this tends to mislead;]] [[considers that everyone has the right to access to good and necessary care for reasonable remuneration;]] [[calls on the government to ban the budget policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-574]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u156	My second motion concerns limiting the number of policies. Contrary to what I understood from the Minister, I do not think that there is any need for an extensive investigation. It turns out that the forest confuses insured people with policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u157	You have 14 seconds left!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u158	Then let's move on to my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2014 70 different policies for basic insurance were offered from 35 different labels of health insurers;]] [[noting that only 9 health insurers contract care;]] [[considers that the provision of a policy offer should be reserved for health insurers who actually contract care;]] [[considers that a limited policy offer encourages health insurers to distinguish themselves positively on price and quality of care;]] [[calls on the Government to examine ways of reducing the number of policies per health insurance provider and informing the Court of Justice about them next spring,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29689-575]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u159	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 567 it is noted that health insurers want to reduce the number of emergency services. I don't notice that. The insurers want to increase quality; that is the objective. All its consequences and criteria are now being worked out. There are no plans to reduce emergency services. It is, in particular, an increase in quality. Purchasing doesn't take place centrally. So I can't come up with a big plan either. Every insurer is going to buy on the basis of the criteria that are now being laid down. So I'd like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u160	I would like to point out that the Minister is now pretending that I am making a world-frequent motion. Over the past year, we have seen on several occasions that health insurance companies come up with regional plans to reduce emergency aid. There is a high-level dispute between Mr Oomen van DSW and Zorgverzekerings Nederland, including on this point. They were flagged back by the Authority Consumer & Market because they didn't do it in a good way. The reduction of emergency services must now be achieved through quality standards. Then saying that there were no plans to reduce emergency services, I really think it's a bit of a bagatellization of what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u161	The mission to the health insurance companies, which was politically motivated and also stemmed from a government agreement, is to see how you can organise the emergency aid more efficiently and bring it to a higher quality. It's not separate. It is not an end in itself to simply delete emergency aid. The motion in part No. 568 calls on the Government to ensure that general practitioners are no longer covered by the Competition Act and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. I have already informed the Chamber about this in detail. We then found out whether the general practitioner is in service of the general economic interest. That was out of the question. The general practitioner cannot be excluded from the Competition Act in this system. You can only do that if you really make it into a public system, but we don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u162	I would like to know what the Minister thinks of the fact that following a complaint from a health insurance company, the Authority for Consumer and Market GPs are working on the contracts that are being concluded, in this case in the Drenthe region, while the Dutch Health Insurance Authority does not want to look at the actions of the health insurance companies in the contract with the general practitioners. Does she think that's balanced? Is she happy with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u163	I believe that I have said many times this evening that I do not think that this is a balanced situation; that the health insurance provider has a strong position vis-à-vis the individual professional; that on the other hand he has a restriction because he cannot negotiate with everyone separately; that we should therefore come up with something; that I am talking to the LHV about how we can better organise it; that we should then also look at how we can better organise it with insurers, and that I should come to the Chamber with a plan on this. The motion in part No. 569 calls on the government to ban health insurance companies from giving gifts to new insured persons. I do not think the situation is such that you should intervene hard in our system of private health insurers in a private market. I don't see any reason to do that right now. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Ms Klever asked the government to ensure that excessive reserves on health insurance companies were proven to be used to reduce the healthcare premium. Excessive reserves of health insurers can be used in a variety of ways: to reduce the healthcare premium, to new innovative projects or to improve care. I wouldn't want to cut them down in the way they put it exactly. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. Mrs Klever's 571 calls on the government to make the terms of care purchase compulsory. What is so unfortunate is that this was an important part of the bill that was killed in the First Chamber, partly with the opposition of the PVV. I think it is extremely important that conditions are made public. I've indicated that I'm coming to the Chamber with plans. I have come up with a new proposal in connection with the alignment of the bill. I would not like to record the form of this at this time. What shall I do with that motion? Mrs. Klever could wait until I come up with those plans. She may then hold or withdraw the motion, but of course that is not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u164	Can the Minister tell us when this new bill will be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u165	I will come to the Chamber with new proposals in not too long. I'll do that as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u166	The Minister talks about "not too long." That's very vague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u167	Yes. If I was on my own... no, this is very complicated. For me, this is not about the instruments, it is about the objectives. I am really coming to the Chamber as soon as possible with new proposals, but I really cannot say exactly what date that will be. However, it will happen soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u168	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u169	In the motion in part No. 572 of the CDA, the Government is invited to adapt the conditions set out in the Annex to Article 2 and Article 4 of the Decision on WMG's availability contribution in such a way that this actually leads to hospital support. I asked the NZa: give me an analysis of how you do it and why you do it the way you do it. The NZa says: it's not like these hospitals aren't being paid. The NZa says those hospitals should simply be paid by the insurer. Period. Insurance companies must ensure that this is maintained. We first had another instrument, namely the availability contribution. Before I give a judgment, I really want to see what the NZa comes with in February. I really want to wait and see. So I do not intend to change this now. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u170	Mr President, before the Minister took the floor again, I drew a sprint to the interrupting microphone, but the Minister was too quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u171	I saw it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u172	It is very good that the Minister is so quick, but I would like to return to the motion in part No. 571 by Mrs Klever. I didn't hear the Minister make a very clear judgment. She asked the petitioner to hold the motion. There was no clear response to that. Suppose that motion is put to the vote. So what is the Minister's opinion, also in view of the considerations contained in that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u173	You could say the motion is policy support. Then I could leave it to the Chamber to decide. What's in here isn't a whole new thought. This was once amended by the Chamber that bill. I was excited about that. I think it would be good if health insurance companies made their procurement policy public before 1 April, as was stated in that bill. It is only strange that we have, of course, been in agreement in the Chamber on this for a long time. That amendment was perhaps adopted unanimously. Well, now this comes back in a motion. My opinion is therefore that the Court of Justice itself must make its own judgement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u174	The Minister leaves the judgment on the motion in part No. 571 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u175	The Minister always refers to the Dutch Healthcare Authority. What does she actually think? Does she herself consider that an availability contribution could be fine for those hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u176	I wouldn't ask for an analysis if I wasn't worried that this might have an impact on the level playing field. However, I would first like to know whether that analysis is correct. That's why I asked the NZa.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u177	The Minister asks for that analysis in September. Isn't it really a shame that more than six months have to pass before we have any clarity about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u178	Yeah, I'm sorry about that. In the meantime, insurers just have to pay. Mr President, may I come back to the motion on item No. 571?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u179	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u180	That's what happens when you do this later in the evening and you have to do it quickly. In the motion in part No. 571 states that health insurance companies indirectly restrict the right to care when purchasing care by determining which means are not prescribed, risking sanctions and so on. This is a different motion, isn't it? This really deals specifically with medicinal products policy. So I'm going to change my judgment on this motion. This is not so much about the broad procurement policy of health insurers. That is why I do not recommend this motion. I'm sorry about that. In the motion in part No. 573 the government is asked to commission an independent comparison site for health insurance. There are reports of the NZa, the ACM and the AFM. I promised the Chamber I'd come back with a response to those reports. Those reports show that there are sufficient opportunities for regulators to increase the quality and transparency of the sites. I therefore do not intend to take such a rigorous step now, as proposed in this motion. I therefore advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 574 is being asked to ban the budget policy. I do not agree with the considerations in that motion. Everyone in the Netherlands is entitled to care that is insured in the basic package, regardless of whether you have a budget policy or not. I therefore advise against this motion. I have no intention of doing this. In the Ellemeet motion in part No. 575 the government is invited to examine ways of reducing the number of policies per health insurance provider. I just asked the NZa to make an analysis of what this means for the choice. I would like to await this analysis and therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u181	I have another factual question about the motion in part No. 568. I have just learned that a policy rule has made an exception for farmers and producers, so that they are not covered by that law. I know that the Minister has already put it together once, but if it is possible to exclude farmers, it seems to me that it is also possible to exclude general practitioners. Now I understand that it is rather complicated to send that to the Chamber in the short term, but is the Minister prepared to look at it again in that way when I amend the motion with a text on the policy rule in the Competition Act as applied to farmers? I think we are all struggling with this issue. I am prepared to amend and hold the motion, but I would like to know from the Minister whether she would like to look at this matter again through those glasses and against that background.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u182	If Mrs Leijten believes that the situation has changed in relation to the previous investigation and that the House is asking me, by adopting this motion, to investigate, I do not want to withhold that information from the Chamber. I would like to point out that I am really opposed to this, because I think that the general practitioner should be in the place in our healthcare system where it is now. There are problems with the purchase, and we have to deal with it. I also believe that the Chamber has a right to know whether or not something can be done. That's why I don't want to remember her and I'd like to find out. I would like to make it quite clear that I feel very little about it myself. The House will then have to adopt this motion and Mrs Leijten will have to support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u183	Then I'll make it up to you. I would like to amend the motion in this way, and I would like to inform my fellow Members that I would ask the government to consider whether an exception can be made, such as the farmer's policy rule. We have heard that the Minister wants to do that research, but in fact she believes that the general practitioners should be covered by the Competition Act. That's fine, but at least let's do the investigation. I hear a broad-minded desire to investigate this. I appreciate the Minister's willingness to do so. I'll change the motion that way. If there are any problems for the ministry in the wording of the motion, I would also like to hear them. I think we'll be a step further if we can do this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u184	It's useful to share it as well. You're filing an amended motion. After that we will hear the Minister's opinion on the votes. Is that an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u185	There may be some contact with each other about this point. If the motion is amended as Mrs Leijten says, we will investigate it. But once again, I do not feel much for it because I think that within the current system there are good points of departure to solve the problems that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u186	I have a question about my motion in part No. 575, in which I call on the government to examine how to reduce the number of policies and to inform the Chamber about them this spring. Is this not in line with what the minister said earlier, so support policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u187	No. I've asked if it's an objection that there are so many policies. What's the objection? I have reason to believe that this is the case. My question to the NZa has already been put out, so it had already happened before Mrs Ellemeet tabled a motion on it. The Chamber didn't know that. I have already said that I am sorry that there was an omission there. So we have already put that question out, but it has been reworded: "There are many policies. Does that result in a restriction of choice? What does that have to do with anything?" I just get the reaction to that. In that sense, the Chamber is served, as it is formulated, on its beck and call. What Mrs Ellemeet is saying about how it can be reduced is a step further, because then we have already come to the conclusion that it is really frustrating in choosing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u188	I had asked another question about the Minister's discussion with the LHV on the new method of contracting. When does the Minister expect to be able to give an initial update to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u189	In time for the next round. We've had a round now. We'll definitely be out of there by the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-29-tweedekamer-13.u190	I would like to thank the Minister for her answers, even in the second term, to the questions and motions on the part of the Chamber. I would like to thank the Members and those present who stayed late to watch. The vote on the motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday. I wish you all a good night at home.
