ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Welfare, Public Health and Culture and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten from the SP Group for her first two-minute term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. We have talked a lot about the Youth Act and a lot of other things. However, there is a looming error in the Youth Act and that is the parental contribution for children who are being included. This applies to the ggz, but it also applies to other youth aid. The suggestion is made that certain costs are saved if your child lives elsewhere, but they do not outweigh the additional costs. We are therefore very much in favour of the parental contribution disappearing. There will be an investigation, but during that investigation we would like to see the collection of the parental contribution suspended. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that as of 1 January 2015 youth assistance is subject to a parental contribution for specialist (day) clinical care up to €1.580 per year;]] [[noting that a study is being launched in the short term on the impact and added value of parental contributions in youth aid;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend the collection of the parental contribution for youth aid until the abovementioned investigation into the collection of parental contributions in youth aid has been completed and discussed with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Berndsen-Jansen, Mr Keijzer and Mr Voordewind.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-454]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u3	By the way, some municipalities already do this, such as The Hague, Haarlem and Nijmegen. It would be a good thing if we followed that suspension in a state-wide manner. Because the parental contribution must eventually disappear, I will come to the next motion. I know that the Labour Party's supporters are also very much in favour of this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that as of 1 January 2015 children with a mental illness in the youth ggz are subject to a parental contribution of up to €1.580 per year;]] [[considers that medical-specialist care should be freely accessible to all children regardless of illness or disorder;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the parental contribution for (day) clinical specialist care in the case of mental illness in children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten, Mr Keijzer and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-455]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u4	I would like to ask Mrs Leijten what she thinks of my approach. She has now tabled this motion, in which she gives the children of the youth ggz a sort of privileged position. In doing so, she introduces a division within the youth care system. What does she think of the approach that we have already achieved in general consultation? The Secretary of State has promised that there will be a study on all children and not just the children of the youth-ggz. In the meantime, an AMvB is being prepared so that we do not waste time and can change the law nicely if we want to change it. Furthermore, the hardness clause will be reviewed in the short term and the Court will be informed accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u5	In my opinion, it is well known that we used to argue in the case of youth care and also in the case of the Youth Act that the parental contribution should be dropped for everyone. I also know that this is the position of the Labour Party. This can also be seen on the website, with a beautiful picture of Mrs Ypma. That is indeed the best outcome. But what we are talking about here is also the verdict of her congress... is that at the time when you need medical-specialist care for your body, there is no contribution of your own. We say that we should not slow down children when they need care. But we do do that in the youth ggz. That feels very unfair. If this is going to cause the entire parental contribution to lapse, we think it is even better. I would, of course, like to amend the motion if Mrs Ypma says here that the Labour Party wishes to support it if it formulates the whole parental contribution. I invite the Labour Party to co-sign. We'll have a majority and we can do business on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u6	Of course, Mrs Leijten liked that, but we have just passed a law. The SP itself had tabled an amendment to abolish the parental contribution. She then withdrew it. So we have a law that states that this parental contribution must be collected. I choose the fastest way, namely the study for all children, with in the meantime an AMvB...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mrs. Ypma, you still have your own term. This is an interrupting debate, so if you would like to ask another question, that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u8	You know, when it comes to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mrs. Ypma hasn't asked a question yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u10	I would like to ask Mrs Leijten why she withdrew her amendment when we discussed the legislative proposal here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u11	I've been reading that extensively. That was because the Secretary of State said in the debate that the amendment was superfluous. Because I'm very much in favour of changing something, I don't want to do anything unnecessary. He actually said it wasn't necessary. Then I withdrew the amendment. After all, I don't feel the same way. I am very sorry, but I note that Mrs Ypma has not tabled an amendment either. So I'm suggesting we suspend the inning until the investigation arrives. If Mrs Ypma proposes to broaden the motion to cover the entire parental contribution for youth aid, I would be happy to do so, but I would invite her to come under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u12	I have a tip for Mrs. Leijten. Is it aware of the fact that the Youth Act in Article 8.2.1 provides for the possibility of exempting special categories such as youth-ggz from levying an own contribution by means of a General Measure of Management in any event?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u13	There are plenty of legal avenues. That was also one of the reasons why we withdrew that amendment at the time. I think there are plenty of cleverness imaginable. If it is not regulated by law, you can also announce it with retroactive effect. It is often said in a policy area: we have just made a mistake with the parental contribution in the Youth Act and we will restore it on 1 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr. Chairman. In general consultation, D66 also explicitly asked for the collection of the contribution to be suspended. The Secretary of State did not agree to this, and that is why we co-signed the motion. I do have a question for the U.S. Secretary of State. It turns out that municipalities do indeed stop or do not start collecting the parental contributions to be paid in the context of the youth ggz. It has always been said that this cannot be done within the rules of the law. I would therefore like to know from the Secretary of State how this can be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u15	I would like to know how the position of D66, as expressed in the AO and now also in the motion co-signed by D66, is actually called upon to suspend the collection of the parental contribution, which is included in a legal article, in relation to the position of the D66 group, which always positions itself as a constitutional party in parliament. How does that position relate to your plea for a law that has just entered into but not been followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u16	We are in favour of suspension. That doesn't mean we're putting a piece of law aside. The Labour Party has requested an investigation. We wholeheartedly support that, but that also means that you have to stop collecting until the results of that investigation are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u17	So if the VVD asks for an investigation into a particular tax measure that doesn't suit me very well, this means that during that investigation I can ignore the laws and say: well you know, I won't let my aldermen et cetera follow that law for a while. That is extremely strange and unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u18	Well, those are the words of Mrs Van der Burg. I have a very smooth back for that. That's gonna slip right off. I believe that tax legislation is of a rather different order than denying children good care. So let's not beat each other up. My group has tabled an amendment to the Youth Act to ensure that youth-ggz does not fall within its own parental contribution. That amendment was not supported. We have therefore done our best to eliminate discrimination between somatic and psychological care. The Labour Party has now requested an investigation. There are consequences. Again, that is why my group believes that we should be consistent and therefore suspend the collection of the parental contribution for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mrs. Van der Burg, you still have your own term. So I really want to refer you to that deadline, especially since this is a brief general discussion. This is intended for motions or brief questions, but not for the re-opening of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u20	Perhaps I should point out a factual error. D66 has not tabled an amendment to abolish the parental contribution for youth-ggz. She has tabled an amendment to keep the whole youth ggz out of the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u21	Finally, you can respond to this, Mrs Berndsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u22	We can catch each other here by words. Mrs. Van der Burg knows I'm temporarily observing this portfolio. Fine, if this is how she wants to take me down. I think D66's approach was pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr. Chairman. It is clear what the Christian Union finds and finds. We have also expressed this in general consultation with the Secretary of State. We believe that, in the context of care avoidance and the new parental contribution in the youth ggz, a study should be carried out on the extent to which thresholds are set. We felt and felt that the collection of that contribution should be suspended until we have that investigation. That has not happened at the moment. We can already see that municipalities, such as The Hague, Haarlem, Zandvoort et cetera, are going to suspend the inning. We can understand that. In order to manage this properly, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that since 1 January 2015 there has been an own parental contribution for the youth ggz, which may amount to €132 per month or €1,584 per year;]] [[Whereas Article 8.2.3 (5) of the Youth Act provides for the possibility to waive its own contribution and a number of municipalities have now chosen to do so;]] [[calls on the government to enter into talks with the VNG in order to identify the basis for the local authority's own contribution and to seek a common solution for municipalities wishing to deviate from the established own contribution,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Berndsen-Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-456]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had a good debate on youth health, youth aid and youth protection. I am satisfied with the commitments made to me by the Secretary of State at the time. I would like to mention here that a number of "law-holders' have decided that those who are to enforce the law have decided in municipalities such as The Hague and Haarlem not to collect the parental contribution in full or in part. The VVD gives the municipalities within the framework of the law all the policy freedom to organise the support and care for our youth according to their own understanding. However, it is impossible for aldermen not to implement a part of the law, in this case the Youth Act. I would like to take this opportunity to express the commitment of the Secretary of State of the United States of America to consult with the VNG and the relevant municipalities and to inform them that they must simply comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u25	I hear it emotions Mrs. Van der Burg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u26	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u27	In order to get the emotion out of it, perhaps it will help if I remind Mrs van der Burg of what the Youth Act says, namely that the CAK has twelve months to make its own contribution at all. So is it not much wiser if the VVD asks the State Secretary here, not to take the measure of municipalities that want to do the best for their citizens, but to look with municipalities how to tackle a task which is broadly contrary to what is considered acceptable in society and which costs more than it brings, as I say now? And I mean to ask the CAK to simply comply with all the legislation, because I think it is quite something that Mrs Van der Burg is doing here to find a practical solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u28	Firstly, I believe that Mrs Keijzer no longer needs research. It already knows all the answers to the questions about what society thinks. Secondly, I would like to point out that Mrs Keijzer, or the CDA, seems to me to be keeping it with the party until recently was and has also agreed to all such contributions. Now suddenly they're calling out that they're against it. If we have established a law with him, we have to abide by it. That seems to me to be a normal position for a party in parliament, also for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mrs. Keijzer, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u30	If you don't remember, you'll get the department you-bake. Well, that's how she is. Here's what I'm saying. Mrs. Van der Burg blames aldermen for not complying with the law. I'm telling her that's not true at all. The law has a possibility of excluding certain categories. You don't need an investigation for that. Mrs Van der Burg can read it herself in Article 8.2.1 of the Youth Act. The Youth Act decision, as I see it in Article 8, simply states that the CAK has 12 months to go. So again, municipalities are doing their stinking best to carry out everything that comes towards them properly. Will Mrs Van der Burg not stand behind these municipalities and not call on the Secretary of State to make the work even more impossible, but call on the Secretary of State to see with them what is feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mrs Keijzer has also raised this in detail in the debate. She received a clear answer from the Secretary of State. The law is the law, and I think we have to abide by it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u32	One short interruption: then it is a matter of unwillingness. That's possible, but the fact that it's legally possible is like a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u33	That is Mrs Keijzer's opinion. The Secretary of State responded to this last time, as Mrs Keijzer also mentioned it in the AA. Moreover, I made it very clear in the debate that I think a parental contribution is fair and I did not run away from it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mrs Leijten, before you start, I would like to say that this is a VAO and not a continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u35	But, Mr President, it is quite a matter for a representative of a government party here to say to municipalities that they must implement the Youth Act, a harsh measure, but that the same party looks away as municipalities of rücksichtslos abolish home care, which is clearly contrary to the law, because that has been brought before the courts. Then the Secretary of State may do nothing, the VVD finds, but oh woe, if the parental contribution is not collected, then action must be taken! I think that's worth an observation, but I have a question. I've taken on the problem of the Haarlem City Council. It simply states that it is currently more expensive to collect the parent contribution, because there is no CAK support system yet. This is only available at the end of 2015, early 2016. In the meantime, if they acted with a very own system, there would be implementation problems not only in terms of privacy and data reliability, but also in terms of equal treatment. If a municipality finds that it is unable, for example by the CAK, to implement the law, I think Mrs Van der Burg should make the appeal to the State Secretary and not to municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u36	I have made it clear here that I believe that the law must be implemented. Mrs Leijten brings in all kinds of arguments from municipalities that say they do not have to implement the law. I asked the Secretary of State to consult with the VNG on this. We don't make laws here for nothing. I think it's a lot to say as a room: well, we're just gonna put that off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u37	Then we know the VVD as a very inconsistent party. She looks away when care for the elderly is taken away rücksichtslos. If the telephone indications are set to zero, the Secretary of State does not have to do anything! But if the hard-hearted parental contribution is to be removed, ooh, then we have to intervene with municipalities. There the VVD measures with two sizes and with two very unwelcome sizes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u38	A completely different debate is being called. I believe that we are also very consistent in this regard. If the law is not enforced there, we are also saying that it needs to be dealt with. I am also surprised that Mrs Leijten did not table that amendment at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u39	I would like to comment on Mrs van der Burg's comments. She says the law doesn't allow it. I checked the law on that. Article 8.2.3 (5) allows the administrative organ to declare the recovery inapplicable or to derogate from it. There are therefore possibilities to vary, reduce or even postpone the parental contribution. Why does Mrs van der Burg always resort to the law, when the same law does give that possibility to the municipalities and to the administrative body?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u40	We have set very clearly in the law the amounts for parental contributions, age and type of care. There's a reason we put that together. The law has just entered into force on 1 January 2015. If we're serious here, I think we should stick to that. In the debate, the Secretary of State promised to look at the hardness clauses contained in the law. We'll get a letter about that soon. Mr Voordewind also knows that this is still being looked at. That seems to me to be the way forward, and it does not seem to me to be the way forward to lay the law beside us. That can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u41	The same law lays down the exceptions. I just read it. Municipalities can therefore rely on this, and the administrative body responsible for implementation can also do so. So there's nothing illegal about what's happening right now. I would therefore like to ask Mrs van der Burg, in particular, to allow the Secretary of State to speak with the VNG. They can then see if there is room for the municipalities to make a pass on the place or to make variations in it where necessary and the importance of the child comes first. That's what this bill says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u42	It is quite clear in the law which categories are not covered by the parental contribution. I refer to the same article and to the implementing decision. It clearly defines which groups may be in an exceptional situation, within the framework of the hardness clause. Mr Voordewind also knows that if it really comes to it, we will not let a child fall between shore and ship in the Netherlands. After all, we do not even do that with people who have never been here and who need care. That's our normal way of dealing with each other. I therefore believe that we should stand for a law that we have just passed. We've all been extensively involved in the treatment. Mr Voordewind himself voted against a motion in December. He should therefore stand in front of that law instead of giving it space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u43	Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Keijzer. She says she doesn't have to. We have come to the end of the term of the House of Representatives. Can the rulers answer immediately? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u44	Mr. Chairman. I haven't had a lot of questions asked. Discussions have mainly been held in the Chamber itself. I think that perhaps one or two points should be raised. Firstly, there is the question of the hardness clause. There was some debate on the question of exactly what powers are in respect of the collection. It is perhaps good to note that the parental contribution is determined in accordance with the law and is collected for the benefit of the municipality by an administrative body entrusted by our ministers with the determination of that collection, namely the CAK. The municipality does not collect the contribution, but the municipality immediately notifys the CAK, which is responsible for establishing that collection, in accordance with the law. This communication shall contain the information necessary for the determination of the contribution. We also have Article 5. This has been introduced into the law as a hardness clause, so that that administrative body can establish that there is a deviation if there is an unfairness of a pre-eminent nature. That's for the protection of the child. If the child needs care and the contribution could lead to that care not being given, the hardness clause can be applied. We are dealing with the next situation. The law says there's a parent's contribution. If a care is identified, the municipality must pass it on to the institution that collects the contribution, the CAK. The CAK shall then apply the contribution, including the hardness clause. That means we're doing two things. Firstly, we are examining the question of the application of the hardness clause. That's what the Chamber's agreed to do. Secondly, we are doing more structural research into the cost-efficiency of this parental contribution and whether there is reason to consider whether this leads to care avoidance. That's the royal road. We should not say in the interim that this contribution cannot be collected, because the municipality does not collect that contribution. It shall immediately transmit the data to the CAK. The CAK has some time to establish that. I would also point out that this is intended to protect citizens. If the CAK were to take too long, citizens could be faced with far too high a contribution. You cannot stretch the hardness clause in such a way that the parental contribution does not have to be collected, which would be a bit weird. The suggestion from the Chamber is to re-examine whether the own contribution leads to a non-cost-effective approach or to care avoidance. And, as one asks, in the meantime also look at the hardness clause that I will be bringing to the Chamber very soon. I'd prefer to maintain that royal road. On the one hand, let us uphold the law that we have adopted and, on the other hand, let us understand the considerations that have been exchanged in the Chamber in order to consider as soon as possible what solution we could come up with. That explains a little the explanation of the motions. The motion in part No. I would advise against 454 because the hardness clause could be a good alternative to what the motion seeks. We cannot, in a generic sense, simply suspend the collection of the parental contribution. We really need to wait for the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u45	I hear the Secretary of State say that he finds it difficult to go along with the proposal before him, namely to relieve the parental contribution for parents of children with psychiatric problems. The law provides for the possibility of excluding categories from the General Measure of Management. Wouldn't the Secretary of State want to take another look at that? After all, there has been a political conference that has made a statement on this subject, namely the PvdA Congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u46	We also had a discussion on this in the Chamber. As a result of this discussion, I'm conducting an investigation. I am concerned about everything, including the issue of the various groups. I note, however, that in one of the discussions we have also had with each other about our own contribution, the question arose as to whether it would be wise and wise to exclude a separate category for it. Shouldn't we first look at the parental contribution in general? We then introduce something that leads to discussion again. My commitment was to look primarily at the parental contribution and not to exclude any part of it. At the same time, we are looking at the hardness clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u47	There are categories excluded, namely welfare mothers under the age of 21 and children of asylum seekers. The proposal is to include a category, but I hear the Secretary of State doesn't want that. He wants to investigate things first. Then I assume he will not advise against the motion asking for the suspension of his own contribution as long as the investigation is pending. He can't stand that, but that's what we're going through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u48	I still have to point out the motion, but I just indicated that I am investigating the hardness clause. I'm doing a study on the cost and effectiveness of the parental contribution, including the question of what care-avoidance effects it has. I really want to do that wide and as quickly as possible. I cannot say that we are not going to implement the law in the meantime, because we cannot say that a parental contribution has been established, but we are not going to do that for a while. We can expect the Secretary of State to keep an eye on the law. I am rushing with the hardness clause and with the parental contribution study.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u49	The Secretary of State responds to suspending this motion, but he is not prepared to do so. What does he think of the fact that he is chasing municipalities at extra costs because the CAK does not yet have a system for automated information exchange? Now municipalities need to free officials to exchange personal data with the CAK by e-mail. That is where the data should then be looked up and paid out. Since no automated system is yet available, this costs the municipalities more money than it brings. Does the Secretary of State not believe that he himself is responsible for the fact that municipalities are suspending this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u50	I don't think so. A return on this parental contribution has also been estimated. I am not sure that municipalities think that this revenue is not necessary for the municipalities, I do not know exactly. Apparently, they've already made a cost-benefit analysis, but I haven't. That's one of the reasons for this investigation. The other side is that there is a parental contribution in the law. It has been established and the CAK has the possibility to examine at individual level whether this leads to a hardness clause. That sounds like the law to me. However, in view of the discussion in the Chamber, I am very willing to consider whether both points can be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u51	I hope that the Chamber will not follow the Secretary of State's advice on the motion, but rather suspend it. The system's out of order. We hunt the municipalities and the CAK for additional implementation costs that are disproportionate to the amounts collected. I have a follow-up question. The Secretary of State says he's coming up with that investigation soon and he doesn't want to temporarily suspend it. But if it comes out of the investigation that the parental contribution is really not good, it costs more than it costs, it is morally wrong, will the Secretary of State compensate all the people and municipalities for the costs they incur?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u52	I do not want to anticipate the results of the investigation; I do not think that is wise. We agreed that's how I'm gonna do it, and that's how I'm gonna do it as soon as possible. Then it may even have an impact on the way in which the CAK receives the contribution. Let us wait and see if there is a solution that the Chamber will agree with. In response to Mrs van der Burg's question, I undertake to talk to these municipalities and the VNG. It seems to me to be a good idea to include this in the research, because if we do research into cost-effectiveness and believe that the municipalities should, for whatever reason, anticipate this, it seems to me that there are two reasons why we should discuss it. Firstly, to point out to the municipalities how the law works. Secondly, to hear the motivations for municipalities. That could be relevant to the investigation we're doing. I will take Mrs van der Burg's suggestion to talk to the VNG about these steps to heart. The motion in part No. 454 I have indicated and I therefore advise against that motion. In the motion in part No. 455 is proposed to delete the parental contribution. Mrs Leijten almost tempts me to say that I leave the judgment on this motion to Congress, but I stand here as Secretary of State. Since I promised to do that investigation, I'd advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 456 is actually asked something curious. I have promised that I will talk to the VNG to see what is going on with cost-effectiveness and the effects on care avoidance. That's part of the investigation. However, the motion calls on the government to "map and seek a common solution for municipalities wishing to deviate from the established own contribution." So it actually says here that I have to talk to the municipalities to see if they can deviate from what is in the law. That seems to me to be putting the horse behind the cart. I like to do it by my own royal way. I would therefore like to discourage the motion, but with the commitment that I will talk to the VNG to see how municipalities look at the parental contribution including cost-effectiveness and the effects on possible care avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u53	However, we see that municipalities do not collect their own contribution, at least they do not pass the names on to the CAK. Does the Minister recognize that this is the way it can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u54	That doesn't comply with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u55	And that was the question in my motion. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine with the municipalities what possibilities there are to be within the law I have just read an article to come up with variation on the own contribution? Maybe he can give the room to deviate from that, where they themselves do not see it. That's the request in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u56	Then I need to make it a little more precise. The law is as follows: If a municipality grants care, the municipality is asked to inform the collection body that that care has been granted, for how long and to what extent. This is passed on to the CAK, which will then collect the parental contribution, possibly using the hardness clause that you apply individually to ensure that those who need care can also get it. That is the working of the hardness clause. I can well imagine that the opinion of the municipality is very important in the functioning of the hardness clause. I would like to include this in my research into the application of the hardness clause. I believe that the House should be satisfied with this commitment. So I'll take it with me in the investigation. That is why it goes too far to determine now, in consultation with the municipalities, to what extent they can deviate from the law. I don't have that space.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thanks for the answer. The Secretary of State for Security and Justice does not need to add anything to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-05-tweedekamer-8.u58	On Tuesday there will be a vote on the motions tabled.
