ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Ghost stories and pure scare-making: that was the Minister's response when last year the CDA made it clear, on the basis of many studies, that the loan system would provide fewer students in higher education. In her view, the loan system would have no impact on the accessibility of higher education. Unfortunately, I am standing here today because exactly what we were afraid of then is happening. Not in universities, but in HBO: the type of education that should be the springboard for MBOs, the type of education that would offer an opportunity for first-generation students and the type of education that should ultimately ensure that young people who are not too broad at home have a better future themselves. The Minister has made it clear that she is concerned that these young people want to go higher and that it is okay if young people with an MBO degree do not continue to study. Is the Minister happy with this reduction of about 10,000 students? In ScienceGuide and on Foliaweb we could read that at the HvA, the Hogeschool of Amsterdam, the minister is not unknown. The Association of High Schools of Thom de Graaf shows that there will be 5% to 10% less first year influx. Is the Minister prepared to return to her statements that the loan system would have no effect on participation in higher education, specifically in HBO? Is this reduction also the reason for the adjustment of student numbers in the OCW budget? Is the Minister prepared to adapt the loan system in order to maintain the participation in higher education of particularly vulnerable groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say that I agree with Mr Rog that HBO and the whole of higher education should be accessible to anyone who has the right paperwork and motivation. Higher vocational education is, in my view, an emancipation machine and it should remain so. The question is, however, whether there is a significant drop in student numbers. That conclusion would be very premature. These are figures from the HBO field, from individual institutions. We get these figures every month, but we cannot yet draw definitive conclusions from them. Indeed, the results that individual colleges can present today are very dependent on definitions. At least I do not recognize the 17% or 16% mentioned in ScienceGuide. I continue to stress that this is a preliminary expectation of the Association of Colleges. Mr Rog knows as well as I do that 1 October is the counting date. Institutions will then take a good look at their figures and calculate again how many students they really have. They shall submit the figures to DUO before 1 December. On this basis, we can then come to final registration figures. I'll report it to the Chamber in the spring, in the student monitor. So there's no reason to go back on appointments. By the way, I have always said that there could be a slight dip. However, I do not expect structural changes. We do a great deal to encourage MBOs to take a course in HBO. There is also no direct relationship with the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister says these figures are premature. However, in earlier interviews on the wo-influx, she indicated that the influx into universities was very satisfied that it had remained at its level. Now, however, the HBO inflow rates would suddenly be premature. I think that's a strange conclusion. However, my question to the Minister is as follows. Let's say we're going to have numbers of about 7% lower inflow into HBO. Would that be a reason for this Minister to take measures to ensure that the influx is maintained? Because if the minister here says that HBO is an "emancipation engine," then that cannot be left with this hollow rhetoric. Then that must also be done. Then we must keep that higher vocational education accessible and accessible. If these figures turn out to be true on 1 October, what will this Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u4	Let me first correct what I said about university education. I have also said that they are provisional figures, but that I was distracted by the fact that there is no reason for great concern. The other question is a like-dan question. I think it's good to wait for the monitor first. Then we can also see what caused it. Maybe students aren't going to study at major colleges in the Randstad anymore? The college Mr Rog mentioned has almost 50,000 students. Perhaps students go to another, smaller college and this also fits in with the policy of promoting small scale. That could be an explanation. Perhaps students see job opportunities in the labour market increasing because the economy is improving. Perhaps we find that many students fall out in the first year and we see that they take a gap year to better prepare themselves. It could all be. I'm not jumping to conclusions. However, if I can send the figures in the student monitor to the Chamber in the spring, I would like to have a debate with Mr Rog.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u5	Of course, we will enter into the debate in the Chamber when the actual figures and the analyses are there. That's what's needed. However, the CDA is concerned that we should not lose a cohort to students. However, the figures do give rise to fear. The Association of High Schools states that the loan system is, in its view, one of the reasons for this decline of 5% to 10%. The Minister does not yet want to respond to this, but I call on her to do everything in her power to adjust in good time if these provisional figures prove to be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u6	I will be happy to keep track of the student movements: who is going to study, where they come from, what they are going to study, whether there are obstacles and what we can do about them. I would also very much like to follow the way in which we can invest all this extra money in higher education. I will keep the Chamber informed about both areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u7	Indeed, we see a rather lower inflow compared to other years. Because even though the figures are not yet definitive, this does not seem to me to be catching up. Among the courses which certainly have much less influx are the pabos. That's where the masters and damsels will be studying. But now there's a lot less people flowing into it. This is not only due to the loan system, but probably also because of the testing requirements imposed on the pabos. If there is so much less influx into the pabos, this means that in a number of years we will probably have fewer teachers in front of the classes. Is the Minister prepared to consider the requirements not as a guiding principle for the review, but as, for example, as an advisory opinion on what still needs to be overtaken by overdue knowledge? After all, this could have very dramatic consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u8	I agree with Mrs Schouten that the influx into the pabos has decreased considerably. That is the consequence of a conscious decision we have taken here. There was very broad support from the Chamber for this and it was also strongly requested, because everyone felt that the quality of the pabos was not in order. In fact, the pabos should be the most important courses of higher vocational education, because we entrust all our children to the teachers and the masters at primary school. They must therefore be well trained. The pabos need to be able to learn enough in those years and therefore students need to be of sufficient quality if they are to enter. That is why these requirements have been drawn up. They should also lead to a much lower number of students in the first year, i.e. the current year. We are going to follow that very closely, and I will be happy to do so if there is a need for adjustment. But I do not want to interfere with the quality requirements that we have all set for teacher training and pabos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u9	The question is not to interfere with the quality requirements either. The question is whether the Minister can give the students a little time to grow into it. This has now been introduced at once. So they could not prepare for that. We now see the result: a much lower influx into the pabo. That's what the Secretary of State recognizes here, too. She says, "I'm gonna adjust if I have to." But then we are too late, because then there are already whole groups of students who could have been the masters and teachers of the children in the classes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u10	If Mrs Schouten puts it that way, we have already taken measures. For example, for havists and especially for MBOs who lacked courses or did not have them at the level, we have taken all kinds of measures such as switching classes and training courses, for which we have also reserved additional financial resources. In my view, we should not be too anxious and adjust the quality standards accordingly. So we are doing everything we can to help and educate everyone. I am also in intensive conversation with the pabos about the lessons they are drawing from these broadly shared measures. We are therefore keeping a close eye on everything in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-29-tweedekamer-5.u11	I thank the Minister for her answers and for her coming to the Chamber.
