ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, in particular the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance. Fifteen speakers have spoken for this debate. The Secretary of State has informed me that he must leave for Brussels at 4 p.m. this afternoon to defend the interests of the Netherlands in the euro group. The Prime Minister has informed us that he is prepared to answer the questions of the Secretary of State as well. Let's get started. We're trying to do the interruptions in half. As Members of Parliament, I know you have a lot of questions to ask each other, but try to put them as briefly as possible, even by taking this into account in advance. You can then ask all the more. I give the floor to Mr Roemer of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. When you go through the country a lot and talk to a lot of people, what I've done for my book, you get a good picture of society. How does policy work out? How do developments work out? What have been done about the economy, but also about the personal situation of people? What has the neoliberal policy of the last 30 years done with our society, with individualism, with the public sector, with international relations and with my relationship with Mr Zijlstra? It has given me a lot of knowledge and a lot of inspiration. You see what goes well, how people realize their ideals, often against the current, and how people fight for better living conditions. However, you also see a growing division in society, a growing gap between rich and poor, a moral crisis that is affecting important areas such as the public and financial sector, a massive breakdown and sale of public services and an earth that is crying out for action. This room is the place to get improvements and a new tax plan is an important instrument for this. It is important to then determine what you want to achieve with it, what your starting points are, what your value is and what your priorities are. For the SP, it is very important to test a new tax system against three principles: human dignity, equality and solidarity between people. In order to fulfil these three principles, we need to use this opportunity, a new tax system, to reduce the gap between rich and poor, to make society and the economy more sustainable and greener, and to make public services more human and accessible. This means introducing a tax system that is fairer and that is enough money to keep important services such as care, social security, education, infrastructure and safety in order and in order. I come to the letter sent by the cabinet. The cabinet does not live up to the great expectations of a major revision of the tax system. I am not surprised, because it is impossible to speak of a tax review if the coalition states that the revision must fit within the framework of the coalition agreement. Large topics such as surcharges, deductions, further adjustment of mortgage interest rate deductions and a real shift from labour to property tax are still unnegotiable. It is good that we are discussing a new tax system here today. In this way, the government can hear what direction a new system should take in order to be able to obtain support from various groups. For the SP, this means that it will embrace proposals to improve purchasing power, particularly for low and middle incomes, provided that the improvement in purchasing power applies not only to workers but also to pensioners, job seekers and people who cannot work because of illness or disability. The cabinet often shields with percentages: 1.5% more purchasing power here, 3% more purchasing power there. They're amounts no one can work with. One percent extra for almost nothing remains almost nothing and one percent extra for an income of one million is about a lot of money; that's as simple as that. In any case, a new tax system will have to eliminate poverty in the Netherlands. However, the letter from an hour ago shows what this cabinet chooses: a single elderly person gets zero, an older couple gets zero, a single job seeker gets zero, while someone with an income of €75,000 gets a sloppy €1,100. The higher the income, the more you get. Then we have not even discussed the impact of a possible increase in VAT on these groups and on the economy. This will have a major impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. Those aren't SP's choices. In addition, it is also very important for the SP to use tax revenues to make public services more human, social and accessible. Many people who depend on care or who work in care will wonder why they have been cutting back for years, while the money is now apparently being picked up and there is money to reduce the tax on profits for large companies. Honesty commands me to say the following. There is a good chance that, after today's debate, we will find that this coalition is not going through a real system review. The cabinet will only come up with a few measures for the 2016 Tax Plan. Make a more social and greener tax system than the deployment of the next elections. Then the people will have the last word on how to set up our tax system and the next cabinet will have the clean task of making it work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	D66 also has doubts about parts of this package, particularly with regard to the impact on employment and purchasing power. However, there is now an opportunity to help, steer and influence it from the opposition. I heard Mr Roemer say in the media a few weeks ago: they will have to send me off the table. Maybe he even used the word "fight" or "push." At the time I thought: that gives perspective, because D66 and the SP have worked more often on important issues. I understand now that he's not gonna take that chance and that he's gonna wait until the plans come up. And I kind of suspect he's against it then, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	No, Mr. Pechtold. Voila, here I am. There's no plan yet. We have received a letter with a vision from the cabinet, but the plans still have to be worked out. I was hoping for more explanation. Something came up an hour before the debate, but that was a little late. I'd like to give things to the cabinet. The government rules and controls the Chamber, and I am now telling the Cabinet what it needs to do to get the support of the SP. That's how we do it in all the debates. In previous debates, we have proven this, as we did when we talked about the ROC Leiden the other week. That's a good example. When we talked about top incomes, we also proved it in the First Chamber, because the VVD didn't participate. In the end, this continued with the support of the SP. When the law on housing corporations came to the Chamber, we were strongly opposed, but we amended the case, Minister Blok moved a number of things in our direction, and then we voted in favour of the law. That is parliamentary democracy. The Cabinet rules and the Chamber controls. We think constructively in this Chamber and in this building. It has to be done here, not after a buffet at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	The fact that we are standing here is thanks to the parties who made that sandwich because it wasn't a buffet, I'm just saying, before we had that image again at the ministry. Those parties have said that we must have the debate here and that the information must be sent to the Chamber. Mr Roemer says, "Here I am." That historical statement is followed, I believe, by the words "I can't do otherwise." But he's got other options. He can influence policy by working with progressive parties, such as D66, in his case. That doesn't mean that you're just putting down your wish list from the point of view of this Chamber, but that you're making sure that a more balanced plan comes out of giving and taking, which is better for employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	Sure, and I'll do that by telling the Cabinet what it has to do to get the support of the SP. I have given my starting points very clearly. I have given a number of examples. We have now proposed more than 16 billion shifts in the electoral programme and in the counter budget. We have sent out various signals, and we have shown in the past that if they go in the right direction, we are simply embracing and supporting them. But the government rules and the Chamber controls.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	A few months ago, Mr Roemer and I also debated this issue. When I even suggested that the SP sometimes ran away from the table a little too easily, Mr. Roemer reacted as if bitten by a viper. None of it was true. As an example, he mentioned the tax plan. The SP would be there at the table and we would have to make an effort to get the SP off the table. I wasn't going to go to any trouble, because I'm happy when the SP sits at the table and sits down. So we were talking about that table a few months ago during that election debate. Now, however, Mr Roemer says that he only wants to talk about this during this debate. Where did he think, in that election debate, that that table would stand? In this room? On the Square? What table was Mr Roemer talking about and what help did he want to offer to make this tax plan better?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	Carefully informing each other about cabinet is a good thing. The cabinet then knows what it can do if it wants the support of a particular party. That question is explained in our electoral programme............................................................................................................................................................................................. It's about providing information, and we're handing it over to the cabinet. Mr Samsom has a choice when it comes to which direction he wants to go. If the Netherlands is to become more human and social, measures will have to be taken in this direction. If he wants the Netherlands to go more in the neoliberal direction, towards the VVD, then he should not find it strange that we do not participate. Then it is up to the cabinet, once we have given our information, to count its knots and make choices. That's what the Cabinet did. A letter has been drawn up. In fact, two parties have already made a choice. The result should then be sent to the Chamber. Then I would like to sincerely look with Mr Samsom for opportunities for the SP to support the 2016 Tax Plan or a longer-term tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	That path is over and the debate is now under way. We're talking about later. Is the SP prepared to cooperate with other parties to get a better tax plan for the Netherlands in the eyes of Mr Roemer? Is Mr Roemer prepared to do so, or is that table, contrary to what he said a few months ago, no longer negotiable for him, is he no longer sitting there and is he just standing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	What a fake picture of things!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	Your presentation of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	What a fake picture of things. This is parliament. We're having a debate here. Here we can share our experiences. We can make proposals here. This is where we can amend. The cabinet must earn our support here. Yeah, I'm open to it. If it gets better than today's tax plan, we are going to vote in favour of that tax review. There must be an improvement in the gap between rich and poor, then there must be greening and sustainability and then the revenue from taxes must be improved in the public sector. If it goes that way, please, Mr. Samsom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	That is the direction Mr Roemer can take at the table, because decisions are taken by parties who want to work together on a better future and not by parties who accuse me of sitting at the table and then are very indignant when I accuse them of suddenly running away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	If Mr Samsom genuinely thinks it should go that way, he knows what proposals should have been in the letter. I did not expect a Social Democrat to support a proposal that would keep the elderly and people at a minimum social level at zero. I did not expect a Social Democrat to put large posters in a bus booth with 'no VAT increase', while package two has a VAT increase. Then Mr Samsom should have come up with something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. The CDA believes that today, on the basis of a letter from the Cabinet, the Chamber will be able to discuss the main lines of the tax plans. It's not gonna be torn apart in public. Public scrutiny is being carried out. Unfortunately, that is public but short-lived because after today the coalition partners are going back into the back rooms with the C4. It's up to them. You can, but the CDA doesn't. In this public debate, I will indicate what is needed for the CDA to support the cabinet's plans. For a robust recovery of the economy, it is first and foremost necessary to reduce taxes. In recent years they have been raised by the cabinet by billions. Especially middle-income people have paid the bill, while they are the backbone of society. The letter from the cabinet shows that middle-income families in particular benefit from the plans to reduce the burden on labour. The plan also provides several tens of thousands of jobs. This is a direction that the CDA has consistently advocated in recent years, and so that is a good direction. But here's what I'm gonna say. When taxes are introduced in the backrooms, under the guise of all kinds of titles such as greening, which in particular harm SMEs unnecessarily again, the Cabinet is in real danger of losing the support of the CDA again. The cabinet states that the position of specific groups will be taken into account in the further elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr Buma says quite clearly here: there are plans that are best in the right direction, but if the cabinet is looking for a solid majority, and thus engages with the parties, there is a risk that it will go in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u18	Wouldn't it be a good idea for Mr Buma to join us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u19	I hear the Prime Minister applauding now. Look, the meeting that's about to take place isn't just a meeting. It's not that at all. The cabinet said first: we are going to reduce taxes by 5 billion anyway. Furthermore, it says that we are prepared to talk to opposition parties who need to do so about increasing VAT by another 5 billion, and about a major shift in municipal taxes. I have the impression that the cabinet is operating smartly, but that it is more in the process of seizing a number of parties in the suit than it really is in the process of negotiating on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u20	Does Mr Buma say: I do think it should be a serious negotiation where there is enough room to talk about both the sweet and the acid? Does he say that things should not lie in such a way that it is poured sweetly into concrete and the elastic is attached to the acid? If he says so, I agree with him. Can we say: if we get these guarantees, do we have a good basis for a good discussion on how to proceed? Then we can see if we can continue in the direction that Mr Buma has just outlined and which he thinks is in the right direction. Then we do not just have to leave that to parties who want to go a different direction than Mr Buma just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u21	And yet here's what I'm saying. The cabinet has a minority. Parliament, not the Lower House, but ultimately the Upper Chamber, can stop or change all cabinet plans. The CDA doesn't need that back room for that at all. Just with at least the SGP and some other parties, such as D66, we can change the plans if we want to. In addition, I say directly that these changes do not have to be very large for the CDA. I'll tell you what we want to change later. I'm really convinced that this can just be done this way. We invite the Cabinet to come forward with proposals, to work them out and to make some changes to them. When the cabinet comes back to the Chamber with these changed plans and I open them, I have to say, if I'm honest, those plans are getting close to what the CDA thought should happen three years ago. Then I can start to scream really loud again why that is not good, but I don't think that is fair. So I say: if the cabinet makes some adjustments, there is a proposal that comes close to a proposal that the CDA thinks is a good proposal. Then all my questions will come, but I am not going to sit in the Ministry of Finance on the basis of "you may increase VAT." On that basis, I am not going to sit in the Ministry of Finance to come up with a deal before the House debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u22	According to Mr Buma, the first package, i.e. the distribution of 5 billion for relief, will support the CDA, but the cabinet can lose its support again if matters are agreed with other parties on, for example, a little more ambition to achieve tax reform, tax greening and simplification. May I summarize Mr Buma in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u23	That is how Mr Pechtold is very close to reality. I say "closely." It is not the case that this is one-on-one the CDA plan. I have a number of points that have to be changed. At the heart of the matter, however, is the fact that the CDA has always said in recent years that taxes should be reduced, that middle income should be given room and that work should be made more attractive. These are all matters that the CDA has also raised in times of crisis. I blame the cabinet for raising taxes in times of crisis. I blame the cabinet for the fact that essentially what is being proposed now is nothing but repairing what has gone wrong in the past. However, that is a step towards a tax plan that the CDA wants. So we do not need an increase in VAT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u24	But here's the thing about getting it a little sharper. On the reproach of who raised taxes: I remember that the CDA itself helped increase VAT to 21%. Let us not point too much at each other, because that is where the CDA, even when it comes to talking in backrooms, is still a bit to blame, if it is blamed. I want to get more to the content. The CDA refers to the twelve seats in the First Chamber and says quite clearly here that those seats are to be obtained when the package of only charge relief remains broadly as it is. So the CDA accepts minimal effects on employment, purchasing power figures as we have seen this morning and no simplification of the system. This means that a next cabinet will face the difficult task of carrying out revisions without the lubricating oil, which is actually in the first package, still being present. Because I only get to interrupt twice, I really want to know if the CDA really wants huge changes in the first package. Or is it a few wishes, but will the CDA up to and including the twelve senators just agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr Pechtold said that it was about content, but I still think that this is allowed, hear more about our position. Once again, I am naming the things we want differently. But I keep saying: if the CDA has been saying for three years that we are going to support plans that move towards what we are proposing, then today I am not going to turn around and say: now that it is there, I really think it is a very bad plan. It doesn't matter who it's from, it's coming in our direction. Reform is important, more reform and ambition are good. I have to tell the Cabinet that there are also some simplifications in the first package. Think of the Car Letter, which is a change that comes in the direction of things the CDA said before, namely simplifying all tariffs. I can't say otherwise. But the cabinet sends a letter with a burden relief package, followed by a second strangle package, which states that VAT will be increased. Then the opposition can talk about what the cabinet will do with it. Then we can also talk about an increase of 5 billion in municipal charges, in exchange for a reduction in the Municipal Fund. That's not reform, it's a tax shift. Technically, anyone can do that, but it barely pays off in jobs. It's 40,000 jobs in package 1, up to a maximum of 60,000 jobs. The president also nods at package 3. The number of additional jobs in package 2 is 10,000. Our own tax expert Pieter Omtzigt said: yes, these are about the rounding differences that apply to these types of models. In short, it is not at all about large differences between package 2 and package 1. That is about the answer to Mr Pechtold's interruption. I will continue to draw attention to the groups that the CDA believes are necessary. The cabinet states that specific groups will be addressed in the further elaboration. For the CDA, this is mainly about SMEs, which have felt the burden of the crisis, and about older people. For many years, the elderly have had to deal with reductions in their pensions, and this cabinet will have to deal with a further attack on the wallet next year, regardless of these tax plans, namely the limitation of the elderly's allowance and the abolition of the capital tax reduction. I call on the Cabinet to reverse this measure in the next budget. A real simplification and reform is, as far as the CDA is concerned, the introduction of a flat tax. This has been proposed by the CDA: one rate of 36.5% with one top rate. This plan doesn't provide for that. But I have to admit that it is a step in the right direction. Last year the CDA was the first step towards the flat tax comparable figures around the middle incomes. The plan is paid out of a budget of 5 billion, on which the CDA has a number of questions, because we do want to know if the coverage is sound. How structural is that 5 billion? What size of gas production in Groningen fits in with these estimates? What if the Greek debt crisis gets out of hand and the price of oil or the price of the euro goes up? The CDA, so I give the cabinet, prefers to budgetize too carefully rather than too spacious. Charge lighting isn't a gift, it's a choice. Is the government therefore prepared to make that choice anyway, and when the budget is not large enough, to limit expenditure to that 5 billion? Whether it really gets easier will have to prove itself. The proposals for box 3 seem to be more complicated than simpler. The precise effects, for example for the elderly with small assets, if they happen to be invested in shares, are unclear. The CDA attaches importance to an explanatory statement in order to have an opinion on this matter. Then I come to the VAT increase package. The CDA doesn't see anything like that. Shifting taxes on labour to consumption is a greening, but I really do not see that. The bicycle maker, the clothes repairer and the hairdresser are really not environmental pollutants. These are rather sectors that help the environment. Circular economy, that's just repairing a bike, I say to GroenLinks and others. In short, no VAT increase. I am also thinking of the tax increase we have had, the border effects and tourism. A holiday in the Netherlands will be more expensive. In short, don't. Finally, the proposal to increase municipal taxes. In the future, the CDA wants to co-operate with the cabinet on shifting taxes for municipalities. What is happening here is, however, the wrong thing to do. You raise municipal taxes by 5 billion and briefly the Municipal Fund by 5 billion. Those municipalities must therefore raise the full 5 billion in order to be able to make the same benefits and provide the same services as today. The citizens see 5 billion increases in the burden on the municipalities, but no better service, while the Empire can say: we will give you a reduction in the burden. Don't! I think I'm done. I say, in my last sentence, over time, that the President is right to say that these are the keys to the CDA at the moment. To the C4 I say: think carefully one more time before you dive into the back rooms on the basis of this letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u26	Madam President. After years of demolition, years of tax increase, the Rutte II cabinet is finally talking about tax cuts. But who's gonna believe these people in "K" anymore? €1,000 we were going to get, said Prime Minister Rutte years ago. We've never seen anything like that. On the contrary, the Netherlands was only going to pay more. The VAT was increased, the WW reduced, the own risk in the care increased, the rents increased, the AOW age increased, the care of the elderly mercilessly reduced, the household help halved and so I can continue for a while. The wrong choices made by this cabinet led to the loss of 200,000 jobs and the bankruptcy of 23,000 companies. This cabinet increased the burden by EUR 15 billion. We would now get EUR 5 billion of that back? It's a huge cigar from its own box. It's like a thief who first robbed your entire living room and later only returned the couch and then wanted a thank you. Fuck it, I'll tell the Prime Minister. Fuck it. What about our elders? Our older people are still treated like garbage with these plans. They get zero point zero respect from this antisocial cabinet. After they are already marbled out of the nursing home and have been packed in their wallets for years, not even now a letter, but not a letter in this cabinet's letter about taking advantage of the so-called tax reduction by the elderly. Like they don't exist. The same applies to all those people who have become unemployed, for example, out of their debt. They can't take advantage of the tax cut, but they were screwed for years. The elderly of the Netherlands will also be caught by this cabinet next year with the reduction of the elderly discount and even the total abolition of the elderly allowance. It's unworthy of a civilized country. The coalition parties should be ashamed of themselves. No one in the Netherlands is fighting the wrong choices of this cabinet. While the elderly are not getting a penny in tax cuts, illegals and asylum seekers are being pampered. An asylum seeker in the Netherlands costs us €36.000 per year. That's three AOW benefits. They get free care and priority in social housing. As if this money mileage towards asylum seekers is not enough, billions a year are also spent on pointless development aid. How sick can the policy be? Choosing asylum seekers in Africa and abandoning the elderly in the Netherlands; what are these choices? The cabinet is failing its duty. I'd say start repairing the breakdown. Start by keeping the nursing homes open. Introduce the Agemageld again. Take out a billion dollars for the elderly and the nursing homes. Use the billion that asylum seekers are now getting. That's a decent policy. The PVV chooses our elders instead of the asylum seekers. Not a penny, I repeat: not a penny more to Africa. The billions that we are saving in this way have to go straight to purchasing power for the elderly, pensioners and those who are out of work in the Netherlands. Although I do not think there is a majority for it anymore, we should of course not accept the increases in VAT in the letter. The VAT should not go up, but just down. Reduce the VAT rate. Use the money we transfer to Brussels every year. This is a policy which benefits everyone and which is good for purchasing power and employment. Let me be crystal clear. The PVV is not going to support those who have robbed our house and now only come to return the couch, those who have taxed our country and cut back and now want to give us a cigar out of our own box. Let others lick the heels of this cabinet. We'll never do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. Nine months and two days we had to wait for a follow-up to last September's cabinet letter on the revision of the tax system. Nevertheless, you cannot yet speak of a full proposal. Maybe that's a good time. As is well known, VVD and Labour Party must gain broad support for their plans. If my group also wants to take part in such plans, it will not be waiting for proposals that have been boarded up in advance. The big question is how much space is available. As far as my group is concerned, this debate will have to clarify this. I will also use this debate to ask questions and give our opinion on a number of aspects of the letter received. I assume that we may regard the letter received as a kind of opening-up of the cabinet and coalition and that there is room, without exception, for other parties to make changes to it. That will also be necessary as far as the Christian Union is concerned. First of all, I come to the objectives set by the Cabinet for the revision of the tax system: simplification of the system, economic growth and increased employment. The Christian Union has always agreed that these are important goals. We have always said, in the debates but also in the talks we have had with Secretary of State Wiebes, that there is more to be done. It's not just about working Holland. We also need to pay attention to those who, for whatever reason, do not belong to them. I refer to chronically ill people, disabled people, elderly people and carers. In the proposals before us, the gap with the workers is getting worse. Another objective is important to us, namely the greening of the tax system. In the proposals of the cabinet which came to the Chamber in the main letter, we see, as I read somewhere strikingly, only one blade of grass rising up. That's gotta be better. We have already put together the necessary suggestions for this in our electoral programme, and they can also be applied here. In our view, this also applies to the fairer taxation of assets. On this point, too, the proposals of the cabinet can be strengthened. An example of this is a greater exemption from the capital efficiency levy for households. It is also important for saving, especially at this time. I am thinking of the loan system that has been introduced against our will. Families should now be given the space to save and put money aside for school-going and studying children. I have questions and views on the intended reduction of the burden for which the cabinet wants to make 5 billion available. This money was once intended as a lubricant for reform; I refer to the letter of September last year. The VVD has been spreading since Friday under the motto "this is certain" that it is already certain that 5 million will be available for working Netherlands and that there will be less income tax, more purchasing power, a higher labour discount, a reduction in the tax rebate and more childcare allowance. End of quote. We look at parts differently. For example, we are questioning the proposed phasing out of the general tax rebate. We are curious how the cabinet intends to do this. How will this work out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u28	A quote from the VVD is now quoted, but I don't recognize it. I therefore call for a source of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u29	It is nevertheless disturbing if the chairman of the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the VVD does not recognize these texts, which are on her own site and which are scattered all over the Netherlands and beyond via Twitter on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u30	Then Mr Slob should quote correctly. The VVD has indicated how it looks at certain issues raised in the cabinet letter. He now pretends that we have taken a step forward and that there is no longer a package that we want to talk to the cabinet about. We have always said that our point is to enter into talks with parties. In our view, burden relief is urgently needed at the moment. The Netherlands has suffered enough in the crisis. We have had to do this ourselves in order to put the country in order. Now it's time for follow-up. When Mr Slob puts that line together, he cuts and paste in a way that does not fully reflect what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u31	We're all connected to the Internet. If we want, if we have an iPhone or an iPad, we can now go to the VVD site. "This is definitely going to happen" and then a number of things are mentioned. That's what I'm gonna take for granted. I welcome this response from Mr Zijlstra. However, what has been brought out in recent days leaves little to be desired. This brings me to the following questions. If the line were to be that the proposed 5 billion load relief was also poured into concrete and that it could not be discussed, it would be very difficult, in our view, to speak further. If I can understand Mr Zijlstra in such a way that he offers all the room, including for parties other than the coalition, to discuss the implementation of that amount of 5 billion, I would like to say that. We do have something to talk about. Think, for example, of phasing out the general tax rebate. How's it gonna unpack? What impact does this have on people? And what happens to people who choose to work less one day a week, for example, so that they can be there for their sick partner? What are the consequences of these cabinet plans for them? From the purchasing power figures we have received today, we conclude that the gap between the workers and the non-working people is only widening. We would like to do something about that, but there must be room for it. We also have doubts about increasing the childcare allowance again. What does that do for employment? I don't think this is gonna do much good. You could, in a manner of speaking, do that better with the child-related budget. We are also questioning the proposal to introduce the highest rate later. I look at the objectives of the cabinet: what does this do for employment? These are a lot of questions. In the end, it is important for us at the moment that there is room to adapt the proposals that are now before us. Finally, I would like to make two observations. We have always called for a great deal of attention to be paid to the reduction of donations at this time of the participatory society. We think it is important that it stays alive. In the letter we do not really read much concrete about this. Is it also the choice of the cabinet to maintain that deduction? The proposals on VAT have loosened up a lot. The cabinet and the coalition seem to want this. In the discussions the Christian Union had with Secretary of State Wiebes, she never introduced this as a generic measure. How well thought out are the VAT proposals in this way? They will hit a number of sectors, such as small services. For this reason, it seems to be contrary to the main objective of the cabinet to create additional jobs. Also, in particular, the non-working people I mentioned earlier will have the account presented because they cannot be compensated in any other way. At the moment, my group sees no reason to opt for such a measure. I am very curious to hear what the cabinet has to say about this. I'm closing up. The Christian Union Group recognizes the importance of revising our tax system and intends to think along with it, but it will only do so if there is room for our views, some of which I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u32	Mr Slob said that he was not in favour of a number of VAT increases. Is he now opposed to VAT increases or are there any VAT increases that can be discussed by the Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u33	At the moment, I do not think it would make much sense to go into detail about all the measures that are underneath. In general, we are not in favour of the generic increase proposed at present. I also have the impression that this is contrary to the objectives set by the cabinet itself and that it can also be adversely affected by the purchasing power of the unpaid working part of the Netherlands. I am curious to hear the response of the cabinet to the questions I have asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u34	Will Mr Slob not now announce the position of the Christian Union to the Netherlands because he does not want to give it up for the purposes of the negotiations in the Ministry of Finance? That would be very strange for a public debate. I think your constituents and the rest of the Netherlands should know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u35	I think I've been very clear. We have not raised this point. We have great concerns and questions about how this could work if it were introduced in the way described in the letter. That certainly seems clear and clear for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u36	Mr. Chairman. I'm taking you back to last Wednesday. 50PLUS was allowed to join the Ministry of Finance. Already at the invitation I had indicated that we are not in favour of back-room politics and that we really want to see benefits for the elderly. In recent years, it has been the older people who have contributed the most to solving the financial crisis. Their purchasing power development was lagging behind, as is shown by research by the ANBO today. But soon it became clear that we could forget. There was no point of profit at the meeting at the Ministry for 50PLUS. This was confirmed by the cabinet later in various interviews, in the main letter we are discussing today and even in the supplement we received an hour ago. Reason enough for 50PLUS to leave the discussion at that time, but with the announcement that my phone is always on. It is, of course, a good thing that workers are making progress with an increase in purchasing power of up to 3%. The letter states that the burden reduction of 5 billion is mainly aimed at workers. Does the cabinet mean by the word "especially" that non-working people might get a little better? It would have been more honest if the burden relief were neatly divided between people who work, people who cannot work and people who have worked. This cabinet, even with the Labour Party, seems to be dedicated only to the workers. Is that strong and social? On the website of the Labour Party, it says literally: "The Labour Party wants everyone to feel the recovery in their own pockets." Older people, however, have to do with the communication that recovery is not at the expense of their purchasing power. "zero, zero, zero" is in this morning's letter. I'll warn the elders. Put your wallet away, because this cabinet has already decided to intervene in 2016 by reducing the elderly discount and abolishing the elderly allowance. Looks like this cabinet is systematically trying to undress the elderly. 50PLUS wants the purchasing power effects of these measures to be reflected in the main letter by the Nibud and the Central Planning Bureau. The previous decisions affecting purchasing power should also be taken into account in this calculation. The impact of the proposed increase in VAT on the economy, employment and purchasing power is completely unclear. We also want clarity about this. Where does the proceeds of the possible increase go? Alone again to the workers? Are older people going to pay the bill again for this? It is not for nothing that many other organisations, such as the Netherlands-SME, are extremely critical about it. They are concerned about the impact on economic growth and employment. Is it not much wiser to investigate precisely the effects of a reduction in the VAT rate, from 21% to 19%? SME-Netherlands is convinced that this would lead to more economic growth and more jobs. Should the decision be taken to increase VAT, 50PLUS, like the EU KBO for example, expects that people who are unable to work and those who have worked hard will also be compensated. Pensioners and early retirees are the major losers in this tax review. There's gotta be another way. 50PLUS proposes that at least 1 billion should benefit the 3 million Dutch people with AOW. In addition, specific measures should be introduced for early retirement. The cabinet talks about creating jobs, especially at the bottom of the labour market, but what will the cabinet finally do to help the experienced and talented 45-plussers get a job? If these concerns are taken into account, the cabinet will know why I still have my phone on and why I have daily contact with my two colleagues across the street in the Upper Chamber. I will conclude with a warm thank you to the people here in the gallery and to the people who follow the debate at home through the NPO. Let us hope that they will be taken into account in the development of these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u37	I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, who feels strongly supported and encouraged by this applause. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u38	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Today, no speaker could begin his story with applause. Madam President. It would be premature to say that after seven lean years the seven fat years have come. We don't count rich. For example, public debt is still too high. It is encouraging, however, that there is scope to reduce the burden on citizens and businesses. Late lighting is fair after years of austerity. It is also necessary to reduce the collective burden burden. And that is possible because spending has been cut in recent years, which means that more light is shining on the horizon. The SGP is positive about the plans that many workers will soon be left with more of every euro earned. The proposal to reduce the load rate in the second disk and extend the disc is a nice step. As far as we are concerned, we should take even greater steps in the future. At the same time, we believe that the cabinet focuses too much on paid employment, including in this letter. This under-exposed people's care for each other. What does the ideal society look like? Is that a society in which everyone has a paid job, where all children go to commercial childcare with billions of subsidised children and where the elderly and the disabled who need care cannot live at home? No, that's not our ideal society. It looks different. Anyone who wants and can do paid work has a job in which there is also room for mothers and fathers who want to invest a lot of time in caring for young children. There is also room to provide a disabled child at home. It encourages volunteering and care rather than punishment. That is what society of participation is all about. Participation is more than just doing paid work. In the eyes of the SGP, that is where the problem lies, because in the last ten years, on average, the modal earner has fallen three-quarters per year, over and over again. On the other hand, two-earning people progressed on average a quarter of a percent per year. Year by year, that gap got bigger. Of course, we are pleased that the cabinet proposals contain elements that benefit the single earner and that there was a plus in the purchasing power picture we were seeing this morning. We appreciate this, but it is time, after so many years, for the single earner to be given a firm step forward and for the injustice that a single earner's family pays far more tax than a two earner's family with the same income to be reduced. That is what the SGP is committed to. Is there any way to talk to this cabinet about that? How is it assessed whether the new tax system provides support for the caregiver and what it means for chronically ill people? It is also part of the plans to standardise VAT rates. The SGP is deeply concerned about the short-term effects of such a substantial increase in the low VAT rate. The SGP wants to know what the effects are by sector, after all, harmonisation will know not only winners, but also many losers: shoemakers, bicycle makers, painters, publishers, hairdressers. These are just a few examples. The effects of the crisis are still noticeable. We're glad entrepreneurs are starting to get some meat back on their feet. We must not destroy this cautious growth, but strengthen it. This must not be the blow to entrepreneurs who have survived the crisis with difficulty! How does the cabinet assess the support for this part of the plans? We are talking today about the tax review. It must be made simpler, but it is quite difficult to make the tax system really less complex. In view of the plans before us, I can give an example of this: the capital efficiency levy. We also say that it has to be fairer, but in the implementation it is made more complex if we are not careful. We hear about the problems of the Tax Administration and the implementation burden of the plans. How was the present package of measures assessed? I agree with Mr Slob's question on the reduction of donations. I noted from the letter that this deduction is not being cut and that this does not call into question the allowance, but I would like confirmation from the cabinet. Finally. For the SGP, the aim of the revision is to reduce, simplify and increase the level of taxation. There are possible measures for this. As far as we are concerned, the political question is whether we can talk about this without taboos and shibbolets. I am also asking this question against the background that it appeared in the coverage of the plans that it was poured sweetly into concrete and the elastic was only in the acid. I hope that this is completely misunderstood and that all aspects of the plan can be discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u39	I have the following question to ask Mr Van der Staaij. Shouldn't gifts be made purely out of generosity rather than on the basis of tax incentives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u40	Certainly, it is ethically very high when it is done purely out of generosity, but precisely where a government so appreciates this generosity, there is nothing against giving a little support with such a gift deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u41	So the answer to my question is no, so it is not out of generosity but because there is a subsidy that all Dutch people are paying for as an individual makes the choice to give something to another. Why do all Dutch people have to pay for that? Why is this gift industry created in the Netherlands because of a tax facility in our system of instrumental functions of taxation so important?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u42	I think it is a nice way in which the government can support people looking beyond their own interests and feeling that responsibility for the total of charities with each other. A government can only represent all charities, but in my view it is also an important task from the point of view of society. And that gives us a nice support in the back. Beautiful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u43	Mr. Chairman. I am replacing Mrs Thieme, who unfortunately cannot be present at this debate because of circumstances. While we are standing here, the court in The Hague has ruled that the Dutch climate policy is so miserable that it is a tortuous act. In this light, the Party for the Animals wants its view on the plans that lie ahead in relation to the tax system today. The Animal Party does not need a judge to know that we are doing too little to safeguard the future of the Earth in the interests of present and future generations. It's called not moving the account. The Party for Animals is always willing to talk. So when the Secretary of State for Finance made his first round, we warmly welcomed him. We said sit down, if you want some coffee, this is where it should go, namely a far-reaching greening of the tax system. That means you're taxing what's scarce or polluting. We do not want labour, we want it, but the things we do not want or need to be economical, namely fossil fuels, scarce metals, pollution of water, air and soil. And so, again, not taxing labor, of which we have plenty. And we said to the Secretary of State: economic growth is not the goal, but the problem; we exhaust the earth, we warm up the earth by our pursuit of ever more economic growth, while the benefits of growth do not fall at all where they are most needed, namely among the most vulnerable in our society; so set economic growth no longer as a goal but a just society that keeps the earth viable and in which there is room for care, for life, for the things that really matter. And when the Secretary of State looked a little difficult, we also said: look, putting simplification first, is not what we were adopted for; what we have been adopted for is putting the structures we come up with at the service of those higher goals of society. The Secretary of State heard that politely, thanked for the coffee and then went into negotiations with parties who, I think, were prepared to continue thinking in the existing thinking frameworks and who did not have radical proposals for system change. My doubt is a bit with GroenLinks. I hope he will join the Party for Animals camp as well, but I'm not quite sure if that's true; join us, I'd say. For what is now before us, a tax reform of 15 billion, of which 5 billion in the form of direct relief, is a plan for which the cabinet seeks support from the carefully selected opposition groups. But is it the revision that is needed or is it a tariff change with a system review label? Why does the cabinet think it is possible to distribute gifts without having to agree with the new most beloved opposition and why does the consultation seem to focus on changing rates in particular in the area of VAT and wage charges? We all remember there were posters that said something like, "How do we get the economy going?" We don't care about families. So we're not increasing VAT. Why should we now fear higher VAT on culture, and on services such as bicycle, shoe and clothing repairs? These are services you'd like. It is, of course, tempting to appeal to the Labour Party on the promise of VAT. However, I also explicitly look at the VVD. The VVD always refuses to acknowledge that shifting the bill also means shifting the climate change and the costs associated with continuing to exhaust the earth. In 1972, Jan Pen wrote the following about the progressive coalition agreement. I quote: "All voters are getting honey smeared around their mouths; Santa Claus is working on whether they can't handle it. The text gives the impression of being written together by unscrupulous advertising guys; unscrupulously, I say it after cool consideration, because here democracy is being undermined." Hans Wiegel, well-known to you all, leader of the VVD, quoted Professor Pen, and followed: yes, there is Saint Nicholas, and there he is, sitting behind the table. He pointed out Joop den Uyl. Who could have thought that the VVD and the Labour Party would take on the role of Saint Nicholas together and leave the blackbird to the opposition? That's the most obvious scenario. The Labour Party and the VVD together distribute 5 billion of windfalls. These are mainly from pumping euros into the economy, printed by the ECB. It is an attempt to vote in favour of the electorate. After all, the coalition does not have too many seats in the polls. What contempt of the voter's intelligence! The story is: you'll get some money, so you'll vote for us again later, but we'll pretend it's in the country's best interests. The Party for Animals believes that the Cabinet should do whatever is necessary. We should not think primarily about our own profits in the next elections, but we should think primarily about keeping the earth viable, in the interests of all those people who have asked the cabinet to do what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u44	Mr. Chairman. A review of the tax system: it sounded so beautiful. At last steps would be taken to say goodbye to the present monstrosity. Finally, there was a chance to get rid of the CDA surcharge festival, the needlessly pumping around billions and those left-wing rising taxes. However, the review does not contain any of this. The demotivating progressive tax system remains intact, as well as a top rate of 52% income tax and far too high excise duties. Thanks to the VVD. As Milton Friedman said, scratch a European liberal and find a socialist. We don't even have to scratch the VVD anymore. After almost 15 billion in burden increases since the beginning of this cabinet, the Netherlands is getting 5 billion back. A cigar from its own box should not even be called; it is a socialist shekkie, leftist politics pur sang. Will the proposed changes at least ensure that 100 000 jobs have been promised? No. There are no more than 100,000 jobs, but there are 600,000 unemployed at home. Thank you, Mark Rutte; thank you, VVD. Then there is the miserable wish list of the cabinet with increased VAT, more municipal taxes and the GroenLinks-utopia of higher environmental taxes. That's all old politics, left-wing bullshit. What the Netherlands needs are real tax cuts and structural changes that lead to more purchasing power, strong economic growth and an increase in prosperity. It's possible. My group is the only one who has worked out a revision of the tax system and has had it properly passed on to the Central Planning Bureau. We say, away with that silly surcharge system; introduce a flat tax, one low tax rate for everyone, of less than 23%; reduce the excise duties and corporation tax rates by 10% and bring the VAT rate not up to 21%, as the VVD Group wants, but down to 15%. I'd like to get a response to our plan. Like I said, it's been calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. It's possible. We even have structural 100 million a year. What the Netherlands needs is less State, less taxes and more economic freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u45	Mr. Chairman. A tax reform occurs every 10 or 15 years. That means two things to me. First of all, if you're going to revise the tax system, you better do it right, because it's a hell of a job. Secondly, if we can, we want to be there to talk and think with. What, however, is a good tax system? That's not an easy question. It is also a question that parties here in the Chamber will answer differently. For GroenLinks, a good tax system is a tax system that reduces CO2 emissions, counteracts inequality and tackles tax avoidance. I've already said what I understand by that. For Mr Zijlstra, to name just a random person in this Chamber, a good tax system is something else. For example, I read a while ago in Het Financieele Dagblad that taxes should not be used to steer, that a good system should above all be simple and that it should focus on economic growth. In short, enough to argue about. However, the coalition partners seem to have limited themselves to the question of how do we distribute the billion-dollars that are here today? I'm sure that led to heated discussions. At least I assume that Mr Samsom did not agree to a 900 million reduction in income above €57,000, and that it hurt him that everyone would get better again, except for people in benefits. However, a reform of the system is not the opening bid of the coalition. I do not think that cutting the proposals into different packages will help. My first question to the Prime Minister is how I should describe the package. There is a package on the main lines and a number of other measures are listed. I'm assuming if we're gonna talk to each other, we're gonna do that about the total, including the Car Letter. Do the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State see that as well? What happened to the ambitions of September 2014 and the desire to do more than just clean up the attic? Take the 100,000 jobs that would come. They seem miraculously gone. That's not so crazy. Lowering the higher disk rates does the least for employment; for that you could also invest in the public sector. I call that the concern. That could be much more effective. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? The letter mentions 35,000 jobs. With additional measures it can become more, but never the 100,000 jobs that were presented with a lot of bombs last year. How are we supposed to explain that? Was the number 100,000 simply too high or did other goals indeed take precedence? About the greening there is a single paragraph in the letter. One paragraph reading as if they were hanging and strangling from the usually flowing pen of this Secretary of State. The paragraph ends with the sentence that the cabinet is also open to concrete suggestions from the Chamber within the framework of the further greening. Bravo! But what exactly does it say? How much room is there for greening the tax system? Is there any willingness, for example, to talk about a meat tax, an open space tax and a mileage tax for freight traffic? These are proposals that I see coming across in several election programmes, which I cannot say about the generic increase in VAT. It is also important that these proposals contribute to the mandate given to us by the judge today, namely to reduce CO emissions by 25% by 2020. If we don't do something, we're not gonna make it. I'll come to a conclusion. GroenLinks likes to talk about a tax review, but we want to talk about all the packages, more ambition for greening, creating work and, above all, tackling tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u46	Mr Klaver says that he is opposed to a generic increase in VAT. Is he in favour of an increase in VAT on a number of parts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u48	Which ones are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u49	I'm not gonna completely figure it out. In any case, I have already indicated where I do not want it: culture and services. However, I do have a proposal to cover the gap that you are hitting with, for example, bringing the VAT rate on meat from the low to the high VAT rate. Meat in the world contributes 18% to greenhouse gas emissions. It makes a major contribution to climate change, so it would be good to tax it more heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u50	Mr. Chairman. Turning tariff buttons is not a tax reform and it does not simplify it. Real tax simplification is achieved by abolishing all small levies, by exchanging deductions for lower rates, by combining the surcharges and by removing them from the tax system, by defiscalising the gift industry, by streamlining the interest deduction restrictions in corporation tax, by a flat-rate deduction in the area of profits and, above all, by abandoning the instrumental function of taxation. I read in the Secretary of State's letter that there is thought of further greening. Do we get twenty additional charges on electric cars because the tax authorities have to keep track of whether the power from the charging stations is generated by windmills? I like to spin a meat tax through the meat grinder. Stop using taxes for things they're not meant to do at all. Instead, work on reducing the tax gap. Invest in the IRS, get book checks every five years. Then I'd like to see how much of the Sligro's wine is still being drunk in business. Charge reduction, fine, I totally agree with that, but the lower VAT? Let us not forget that VAT is calculated in the Netherlands on a cost including excise duty. Here we come again with the border effects. Did you get a look at that? If flowers in the Netherlands become 15% more expensive, how can the Netherlands defend in other EU Member States that flowers should remain at the low rate? Finally. I do not have a senate group, so I am not allowed to talk to the big boys here either, but I do know about taxes and I reach out to the cabinet in case we have time for a real tax simplification. Please!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u51	Mr. Chairman. Finally, there's movement in our fixed load system. To quote a metaphor that the cabinet still used in September 2014, there's a lot of crap in the attic and there's just a walkway to run you through the mess. We therefore also welcome the principles of the cabinet proposal of reducing the burden on labour and promoting economic growth and employment. But what does it turn out to be? With lots of bombaby and stomping announced narrowings in that attic room remain. The Cabinet removes this attic from an obstacle here and there, and that's it. The cabinet does not really dare to revise the tax plan and avoids difficult measures. For example, there is no intervention in the surcharge system, the surcharge factory, which causes a lot of people in our society to get into debt. What a missed opportunity to make the system simpler. The Jut and Jul of this cabinet are starting to look more and more alike. They're losing their identity. For example, the increased labour discount is almost entirely financed by the reduction of the general tax rebate. That's the well-known cigar from its own box. In addition, the lowest incomes are taken hard. For years they have been on the zero line, and now that the economy is attracting, they are still getting zero point zero. My question to the VVD Secretary of State is what he will do to compensate for the lowest incomes. The purchasing power figures of the cabinet also show that the social minimum remains at 0% purchasing power. Mr Samsom can now say no, but that is in the letter from the cabinet. The fact that the VVD has no high regard for people with a lower income is known, but that the PvdA keeps pressing over and over again on those weakest shoulders so that the strongest shoulders can be relieved and that delevelling has become the party is unworthy of the PvdA. The difference between rich and poor must not get any bigger. Now for VAT. Reducing the burden on labour while increasing VAT is not a growth, that's a pocket of cardigans. That's a threat to jobs. A study by NYFER shows that in the hospitality economy alone, 55,000 full-time jobs could be lost. The hairdressers are expected to lose 5,500 jobs. Raising the 6% rate for almost everything but food is a very radical measure, for the small entrepreneur a noose that cannot be avoided if this is continued. We don't read about it in the Secretary of State's letter. It's a tiny paragraph. I'm closing up. I would like to call on the Labour Party to listen to the grassroots for once, instead of constantly participating in this right-wing rotten policy. Not for honor, glory, or seats, but purely for self-respect, for self-esteem. Dare to stand up for your principles, dare to be righteous!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr. Chairman. If you want to calculate your own net income, it's first of all about how much percent tax you actually pay. Is that 36%, 42% or 52%? You must also take into account the income-dependent general tax rebate, the income-dependent combination discount and the income-dependent labour discount. Are you entitled to care allowance, rent allowance, childcare allowance and what about the 45 deductions? Mr. President, are you still following? The tax system has become so complex that I can fill my speaking time ten times with all the rules and exceptions to the rules. That is why, after 1990 and 2001, it is now high time for a new reform, a major clean-up, especially since the tax on labour has increased from 48% to 58% of tax revenue since 2001. So work is becoming increasingly expensive and it costs jobs. For a year and a half, my group has been calling on the cabinet to implement this much-needed tax reform, a reform that focuses on tax cuts, simplification and greening, a reform that leads to more jobs and more purchasing power. Fortunately, this reform is now possible. The cabinet has two more years, the economy attracts and there are windfalls in the budget. Although: can you speak of windfalls? We still have an annual deficit of 6 billion. Those windfalls are necessary for relief. They have to be the lubricating oil for a tax reform. For example, the Secretary of State for Finance wrote on Prinsjesdag: "A system review without burden relief is not feasible, but a reduction of charges without a corresponding system revision is a missed opportunity." That quote keeps singing in my head. What does the Cabinet intend to do? The cabinet seems to be planning to implement 5 billion relief without a system review. Is this really a serious proposal? We heard the CDA would like to support it, but isn't this exactly the missed opportunity that Wiebes warned us about? Are we not going to leak the lubricating oil instead of driving the engine of employment with it? How credible is that if your mantra says for years "the finances in order"? It seems so beautiful: throwing money. But it makes me feel like a Happy Meal. When you see that big yellow M, the eyes shine and you want to satisfy the short-term need with a quick bite and a nice toy, but secretly you know: it's unhealthy and sinful of the money, and after half an hour you're hungry again. That's the way it is with this plan. It seems so nice: tax relief for everyone. But where's the rest of the cabinet ambitions? I quote from the very first paragraph of last week's cabinet letter: 'First of all, the aim is to simplify the system'. That is very good, but where is this simplification? Where's the greening? Where are the 100,000 jobs? I read with surprise that it only provides 35,000 additional jobs. And that for 5 billion. Those are very expensive jobs. That's $143,000 per job. That's equivalent to a ministerial salary. Isn't that a little over the top? If the coalition has leaked the lubricating oil, the opposition is asked to talk about the real reforms. It's like inviting people to dinner, but when the guests arrive, the dishes have already been eaten and you ask the guests to do the dishes. Mr Krol can talk about it. He was promised a buffet last week, but there were only sticky sandwiches. And gone was Krol! I ask the Prime Minister how we will prevent all lubricating oil from leaking without real jobs. Can package 1 still be used differently, so that it leads to more jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u53	D66 belongs to the favorite opposition groups of this cabinet. Mr Pechtold told the cabinet that simplification was the goal, but he also wondered where the greening was. What choice will D66 ultimately make? When we spoke to the Secretary of State, he took a very difficult look when we presented our greening plans to him. He said, it's all complicated. What's happening...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u54	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u55	It's thought from the existing systems. The simplification is paramount, but greening is what people think: if it is possible, it is beautiful. That does not seem to me to be D66's commitment to the discussions she is holding with the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u56	No. Mrs Ouwehand is right about that. We had the same experience. We looked at the pictures and then at the Secretary of State. The more we criticized that part in particular, the Secretary of State became greener, but not the pictures. The idea now is to give the Secretary of State some colour on the cheeks again and to make the plans greener. If Mrs Ouwehand wants to know more about the content, I say: look at our most recent election programme, that of 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u57	I am confident that Mr Pechtold will defend a levy on meat on fire and sword at the forthcoming talks. Thank you for the answer so far. My question, however, is concrete: if that simplifies and the greening clashes, does D66 opt for greening, knowing that the smart boys and girls at the Ministry of Finance really can handle a challenge?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u58	I dare even refer Mrs Ouwehand to the past few years. For example, the autumn agreement did not include the lean greening at all and the counter stood at 500 million when GroenLinks ran away. Eventually it was 700 million when the plans were also supported by D66. So if greening means a sustainable economy and innovative jobs, then we are very much in favour of it. However, this is less true if greening in the atmosphere continues to give people the feeling that they are bullied for bad behavior. Let me say that this is less future-proof. But with D66 we can always talk about real greening, such as in the fields of energy, pollution and consumption. In fact, we have an effect on that. Between the 100,000 orbits of Prinsjesdag and the 35,000 of today, there is now a gap. How is that possible? What measures has the Cabinet dropped since Princess Day? I'd like a comment here, too. I have more questions. Why has the simplification of the healthcare allowance not been developed? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the ambition for greening should go far beyond 200 million? And in the area of local charges, the cabinet wants a resident tax, but is the quality of the municipal basic administration in order? And the proposal to increase VAT seems already fired. Has the cabinet also looked at other VAT measures and can the Chamber get them? Please respond to all these points. Mr President, you will notice that I am going to talk more and more quickly, because I still have a lot of questions, but little time. I particularly see opportunities for ambitious tax reform. There are plenty of parties who want a simpler system, with more jobs. The question, however, is above all: is there any political courage? This applies not only to the opposition, but above all to the cabinet and the coalition. Now all I'm reading is "options" and "imaginable measures." Does the coalition want a tax reform? Or do VVD and PvdA need the opposition to strike a line through a reform on which they themselves disagree? D66 likes to think along with it, but with an ambitious reform, where everything is negotiable and where we keep the goal in mind: much more jobs, lower burdens and a simpler and greener tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr Pechtold said that the cabinet should also look at other ways of increasing VAT. I was wondering which Mr Pechtold had in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u60	No, I said, did the cabinet look at other measures to look at the VAT mix? Then I think about the ideas of sitting at one rate. What are the effects of this? Or I am thinking of the idea of reducing the forest on complicated issues, which now leads to a lot of burdens arising from VAT. I'd like to know if the cabinet came up with one taste, or if there's more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u61	So I understand that there is at least D66 to talk about increases in VAT. In the end, this will have to raise the money for the reduction of labour costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u62	I understand the CDA needs a little distraction this morning. After all, we've had a lot of c's, but we had the CDA once. Now all we have is the C. Today, the CDA, with its twelve Senate seats, said first of all that it supports the five billion in election gifts anyway, leaking the lubrication oil. And actually, it didn't have to be a tax review. That's a comfort for the cabinet of fury. The old three political parties are already uniting towards the elections to tell the citizens that they have done a lot of difficult things, but that they also give some money. I understand that Mr Buma now wants to play a VAT trick with me, but I am not falling for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u63	The question I asked was no more than the most logical one I can ask right now. A large VAT package has been proposed by the cabinet. Is there any talk with D66 about the VAT increase? If so, what then? This is a public debate. If Mr Pechtold does not want to say it, that is also an answer, but I already know that he wants a meat tax. Maybe there's more who want to. With a meat load you make the system more complicated and not easier. The great connoisseur, the Secretary of State, nods when I say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u64	I'm surprised at the attitude of the CDA. The CDA increases VAT to 21%. In recent years, the CDA has acted as if none of the cabinet's proposals would be supported. Mr Van Haersma Buma has just, in his five-minute speaking time, embraced the measures of the past few years in one go, saying that the correction is enough for the CDA to receive 5 billion relief from the cabinet. In doing so, the CDA accepts all the things that have been achieved in recent years thanks to D66. Upon the election, Mr Buma will stand there as the C and say: I am the C who is now taking over from everyone to help the Cabinet to give this gift. That's okay, but I have a little more ambition. I have the ambition to simplify the system and create jobs. I am not satisfied with 35,000 jobs if that is the effect of spreading an enlightenment that is not really enlightenment. What are we doing? We're raising public debt again, and we're raising the budget deficit again. The next cabinet will then have a more difficult economic climate, which depends not only on ourselves, but also on the Greeks, the English, and I know very well who will be responsible for carrying out a tax reform whereby the reduction, as a gift, has already been given away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u65	That was a challenging answer. I give Mr Buma a third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u66	I like that. Then I know I'll have to do the same in the event of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u67	I'll do it once.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u68	I realise by now that I am not getting an answer to the question of what VAT increases D66 can imagine. In many sectors of society, there is unrest as to whether this can happen. After Mr Pechtold's somewhat evasive reply, I realize with some restraint that we will have to wait for parties who do not want to say what they are bringing in to get out of back rooms. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u69	This is another challenging reaction. A VAT measure may be a possibility. The painful thing about last week is this: You see a hairdresser who gets to know that his VAT rate goes from 6 to 21%. Actually, that hairdresser should come back on television and then he should be told, starting from that VAT measure suppose that the government that would take that customer who comes in to him has more money for that haircut or that coilink than before. That customer could go extra for once. The hairdresser's employee has more left in his wallet and is easier to hire. That's the whole picture. You have guts not only when you tell people that, after many years of quoting the pants, they are now given a present but also when you say that you want to simplify, green the system and reduce burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you, Mr Pechtold. My hairdresser is grateful for this remark, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u71	I meant someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u72	Oh, I thought you were pointing at me. I call Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u73	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the letters we have received in recent days. They were the effects of the headline letter sent by the cabinet to the Chamber in September last year. The main thrust of this letter was to simplify the system and reduce the burden on labour. I believe that at that time, as I recall, there was broad support for this. The Secretary of State made a round. He has based the proposals that the cabinet has sent on the round of proposals that have no chance of reaching a majority in the Upper Chamber. Mr Buma gave a very nice and honest answer in this respect: it is no longer about the majority in the Lower House, but we have a minority cabinet, because the current cabinet does not have a majority in the Upper Chamber. That's what the Cabinet understood, so it went into inventory. That inventory round has led to the letters that are there. On the basis of the proposals put forward, the VVD would like to engage in discussions with those parties who are willing to see if we can come to a system review, also in view of matters which they have apparently communicated to the Secretary of State in their chambers. We're gonna see to what extent these things are holding up outside rooms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u74	Following on from Mr Slob's speech, I have a question for Mr Zijlstra. Mr Slob asked what exactly can be discussed. Mr Zijlstra now pretends that everything is negotiable. But next to the Infographic on his site it really says: "This is definitely coming." Then we see a number of reliefs. Is the VVD also subject to the burden reliefs proposed by the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u75	Not about the need for a reduction in charges. It seems to me very sensible that there should be a reduction in the burden. The cabinet has built it up well by indicating that we want a reduction in the burden anyway. The Netherlands has gone through tough years, there is a broad desire in this house to reduce the burden on labour so that more people can get to work, for which you need that relief. Then we have a system review, which is also a broad wish in this Chamber, at least in September. We are happy to discuss this with the parties. If parties do that, we have wishes for that. Eventually, you'll talk about the total. But in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u76	This means that we are also talking about the 5 billion windfall with the Chamber, which is the way it is given back. It matters if you extend the fourth disk or return it to the second and/or third disk, or if you do something about the employer's burden. That is also what we are talking about. The figures that the cabinet has now sent have not yet been poured into concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u77	I repeat my very clear answer: the cabinet is proposing a reduction in the burden, which we are very much in favour of. The cabinet also proposes a package containing a number of options from the inventory round. That's what we like to talk about. When you talk about that, you finally talk about the whole package. That sounds pretty clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u78	Should the VVD be among the parties willing to talk about the 5 billion VAT increase in exchange for a 5 billion reduction in labour costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u79	There's a whole package on the table. I'm willing to talk about anything. I have my thoughts on the proposals that I will be ventilating during those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u80	That's too easy and I'll tell you why. A deal has been made with the Labour Party. When that deal came out, a letter came out. That deal says 5 billion relief. If others want to do so, we also want to talk about a 5 billion increase in VAT. Now the VVD says: that was an offer, but that doesn't apply to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u81	There is a charge relief of 5 billion. I think that is very sensible of the cabinet; we should do so in particular. In addition, there is a desire in the Chamber to bring about a reform of the system. We also endorse that wish, but there is little point in talking about it if we are going to do it together. Mr Buma himself states that this cabinet is a minority cabinet in the Upper House. That is what we have seen. So we are looking for those measures that many parties have indicated in the talks with the Secretary of State that they can talk to them about. So we're gonna start these conversations. The content of that will determine what we come up with. I have my thoughts, Mr. Klaver gave some thoughts and so there are many with thoughts. The essence of this whole thing is that we enter into these conversations. We're gonna see if they're successful. I fully agree with the Prime Minister when he says that the more we are going to do it here, the less the chances of success will be. That's what you've been watching the past week. I'm going to open those conversations, see where we come out and whether the VVD can carry any result or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u82	I can imagine that Mr Slob would like to ask a question on the same point. We try to do an interruption in two and sometimes in threes, but I'm trying to do it this way right now. I'll be right back with you, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u83	I think that's a great privilege.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u84	I just heard Mr Zijlstra say that he wants to reduce the burden at least, but on his site and in what he has sent around, he says very clearly: this is definitely going to happen. Let me make it quite clear that this is going to be changed in the coming months: this might be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u85	No, as far as we're concerned, there's going to be this relief. Let that be clear. We are happy to discuss all the proposals that have emerged from the inventory round and some of the opposition has indicated that they want to discuss them. I take it for granted that if you enter into those conversations, the door will not be locked. The Christian Union also has wishes around package 1. We're gonna look at the whole thing at that point, because if we don't, those conversations don't make much sense. But we are faced with the fact that we need a 5 billion reduction in charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u86	Let us not dive now when it comes to what Mr Zijlstra himself has brought out. It seems important to me that we discuss this and that we have clarity about the positions, especially if we need to talk further. So it says, "This is definitely going to happen." There are also a number of examples and there is a large red arrow down to reduce the tax discount. I have put my finger on that in my own term, because that is only the question as far as we are concerned. We'd like to talk about that. It also says explicitly: 5 billion for working Netherlands. I have indicated here on behalf of the Christian Union that we must, of course, look at working Netherlands, but that the non-working Netherlands also deserves our attention, and as far as we are concerned, including the 5 billion, we must be part of the proposal. Is there room, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u87	We're gonna talk about the whole thing. We're gonna have to see what comes out of it. For us, the starting point is very clear. That was widely supported in this Chamber, namely: the burden on labour down and more people at work. That's a political choice. I think that political choice is a very good one. We choose to help the children and grandchildren of those older people to work. Those old people will be pleased with that, too. Of course, they're not going backwards in the tax plan. That is also being looked at. If there were to be an agreement on VAT and a movement would be made, with broad support in this house, it would have negative income effects for people with benefits and people who have to live on a pension. Of course, you'll have to compensate for that. This tax plan is not meant to reverse those people. But if you choose work, you must also choose work. That is our starting point, let me be very clear about that. If others have different starting points, we will exchange them in the conversations and see if we can get out. That's how I'm sitting in there, and I'd like to start the conversation with the parties that appear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u88	I just asked for a yes or a no. I'm getting an answer from here to Tokyo. That is the view of Mr Zijlstra, whom he is expressing on behalf of the VVD, but that is not an answer to my question. My question is whether there is room, in the 5 billion he says will certainly be there, to discuss, for example, the general tax rebate and the fact that this 5 billion is not only for working Netherlands, but also for non-working Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u89	We are trying to come up with a proposal which can count on broad support in both Chambers, otherwise such a proposal will not make much sense. The cabinet has put something in place for that. We like to talk about this. I say to the Prime Minister once again after what he said: if we are going to do so in public here, then I know one thing for sure, then it will be nothing. I think it is important that we proceed in confidence with the discussions on the reduction of charges for working Netherlands and, where possible, a revision of the tax system. I am pleased that a number of parties have indicated their willingness to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u90	The point is that Mr Zijlstra always gives different answers than the direction of the questions, and that is why we are not getting anywhere. Thank you, Mr President, for letting me do this again. Mr Zijlstra constantly says "we," but one time he says "we'll talk to the opposition, because we want a deal," but that's the cabinet. "We" is for Mr Zijlstra the VVD, who must have a minimum of an effort, which he wants to tell the Netherlands? Let me give you the example of VAT. I can only conclude that there is talk with the VVD about an increase in VAT, otherwise they would not be satisfied with this letter. That's what the CDA thinks is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u91	I think I am very clear: we want 5 billion relief and it must go to workers. So I am using a very clear starting point. We would also like to see a reform of the system if possible, but that only makes sense if there is broad support. That's what we like to talk about. Whether it comes from Mr Buma's party or from another party, there is little point in going into and out of all the details: here is a comma and there is a point. After all, we get the situation that it's already in ruins before we've even started. I think it's so important that I want to give it a chance. Then I am not going to say in advance: this is allowed, this must and that is not allowed. There is a starting point of the cabinet. Based on that, the VVD enters the conversations. It can be trusted that I will represent the interests of the VVD and the VVD voters in those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u92	I'll come back to the famous VVD chart with those arrows up and down and the text "this is definitely coming." The thought that lingers a bit now is that there is talk that things are different, but that the result will not change. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u93	No, we want 5 billion relief. That will not change as far as we are concerned. Whether an arrow should be moved here and there depends on the conversations that are going to take place. I have already said a number of times that you are talking about totality if you are serious about those talks and the measures in the follow-up package I would like to describe it as being broadly supported. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is necessary to reduce the burden. The Netherlands has had tough years. They were needed to put the country in order. We did. Now hardworking Netherlands can also benefit. Those people need to see that in their own wallet, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u94	This reduction is certainly a clear text, but it can be achieved in a variety of ways. The problem that some of my colleagues have pointed out is that you now seem to be saying: we can talk about those arrows up and down that are standing here; it is, among other things, about the tax reduction that should be reduced and the childcare allowance that should be raised, but whatever happens, that will remain as it is. I don't think that's the basis for a serious conversation. However, do I understand from what Mr Zijlstra says that there will certainly be a reduction in the burden, but that the way in which this is done can work out something else than is in the scheme now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u95	I'm gonna go repeat the answer. We are coming up with a reduction in the burden. We would also like to talk about the follow-up package, which still contains a lot of measures for which we need broad support. It's about asking like, "How do you do it exactly?', "How do you do it?" And "How do you not do it?'. Then you also talk about the total. I think that's very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u96	I listened to Mr Zijlstra. He says: it should go to the hardworking Dutchman now. Isn't he deeply ashamed of the fact that his party is partly responsible for the fact that in recent years so many people who worked hard have lost their jobs? Those people apply lamely. These are people from 52, 53, 54 years old who are not going to work because there is no job for them. Those people are now being put away as lubbers, when those who do not want to seek and find a job and therefore do not profit if, just before elections, there is money to be distributed in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u97	Firstly, I do not want the words that the President of VNO-NCW apparently said to me to be put in my mouth. That's not gonna happen. Just for the group of people Mr Roemer refers to, the people who have lost their jobs or who have not yet had a job and want to get to work, we are doing this. This package is geared to helping as many people as possible, by this I mean as much as possible on the basis of the potential support in this house as much as possible. That's exactly what we're doing. People get out of the benefit program and get another job. It's about the movement. That is not at all to say to people: you have a benefit, and that is wrong. No, that's to say to people: you have a benefit and this cabinet stands there as well as the VVD in this tax operation will do as much as possible to get you back to work, to get you back to work. That's the goal. As far as the VVD is concerned, that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u98	I say 'unfortunately' to Mr Zijlstra, because the opposite is true. The gap between rich and poor and the gap between workers and non-working people is greatly widened. The number of jobs it should generate is hardly anything if you compare that with the number of people looking for work. The number of jobs it provides is even less than the number of jobs that have disappeared in the care sector as a result of the VVD's policy over the last two years. You widen the gap, you don't provide jobs and people looking for work suddenly see their income fall sharply. That's what happens, especially when the VAT goes up. They'll feel those blows the hardest. You forget the people looking for work, you forget the pensioners who have worked hard, and above all, you abandon the people who cannot work because of illness or disability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u99	That's bullshit. I notice a slight difference between indoor and outdoor noises, but well, the Secretary of State will have to deal with that. I don't know what he could say to that. Maybe I should ask him what parties have indicated. They want transparency. Well, it would be nice if this transparency could be provided, then we know immediately what wishes they have placed in their chambers. I go back to Mr Roemer's question. It's bullshit that people with benefits and elderly people get worse when you do something about VAT. It is precisely for this reason that the cabinet has said, and rightly so, that we will have to take a number of compensatory measures, because they must not go backwards. In order to focus on reducing the burden on labour, there was broad support, including you, I believe, to make labour cheaper and thus.............................................................................................................................................................................................. That was the goal in September and as far as the VVD is concerned, that is still the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u100	Do you still need a third interruption, Mr Roemer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u101	Yes, Madam President. I haven't interrupted much. In recent years, the SP has consistently advocated a reduction in the burden on labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u102	Well, then do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u103	Even this year, the VVD has increased the burden on labour. What we constantly say is that the gap with the non-working people must not be widened. The VVD does that all the time. I say to the VVD that you must dare to make the slide from labour charges to making it pay by capital charges. Those people have benefited most from it in recent years. It is now up to those who do not have a job, the elderly and the people with a disease or disability to be taken into account. Thank you very much, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u104	I say to Mr Roemer that if you want to help people get to work, work must pay. The fact that you're working has to make sure you have more income. It is that simple and this indeed means that the income gap between people who do not work and those who do work will increase. Otherwise, they will not work in a number of cases. Let us be clear about that, too. This is exactly how it works and we're not running away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u105	Mr Zijlstra says a lot about what I would like to say. If he thinks it is important to put on the table what he said in the talks with the Secretary of State, I invite him to do so now. We're looking for the space the VVD still sees in these conversations. I am glad that Mr Zijlstra is talking about 5 million reductions and that he says that it is still possible to talk about how exactly you are going to do that. What if you wanted to do something for benefit recipients? Then that's not in the burden area anymore, then you're talking about spending. Is that also negotiable within the 5 billion package?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u106	We are talking about a revenue framework of 5 billion, not the expenditure framework. If Mr Klaver wants to throw away all the budgetary discipline in this country, the answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u107	The question is a little more nuanced than throwing budgetary discipline overboard. There are budgetary rules, but we make them ourselves. We are there ourselves, and we can agree on that. In my view, my question is very clear: when we talk about reducing the burden, can we not just talk about reducing the burden on workers, but can we do something for the people with benefits? I agree with Mr Roemer that there are also people with benefits who cannot do anything about it. Then you can stimulate what you want, but they don't come to work. We pretend that there is enough work that they could do, but we also need to stimulate the demand side of the labour market. It would be very good at this time to do something for the inactive groups as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u108	That is a very nice way of saying that you are abandoning budgetary discipline. If you're going to spend the money in the income framework at once and let the government spend more on that point, then you're doing the wrong thing. That's kind of the Syrian method. We shouldn't do that in this country. There are many people who, as Mr Roemer rightly said, have lost their jobs in recent years. I repeat that we are trying to achieve this reform for those people, so that the burden on labour actually goes down and those people get to work. It is a political choice to focus on that. In this house very often no choices are made. Then we'll just smear it all over the parties. Then everyone is a bit satisfied, but the basic choice is that we want to help people get to work and so the burden at work has to go down and the VVD dares to make it. Then we accept that the groups that are not at work do not go backwards, but indeed do not progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u109	What I am asking Mr Zijlstra about is whether there is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u110	That's the last question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I am asking Mr Zijlstra about is whether there is room to talk about it, or whether it is not a njet. Can we look at what is sensible, how it works out? In the end, we will have to see the total plate. Is it possible for Mr Zijlstra to discuss what this means for the inactive? It began to look as if Mr Zijlstra said: no, there really is a njet on it; we can only talk about that relief. I'd also like to see what you can do for the inactive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u112	It has now been raised several times in different questions. I am going to say every time that there is a package in front of it, we think that the reduction of the burden is extremely important and we would like to discuss the follow-up measures with the opposition and then you talk about the total. I can tell you six more times, but it doesn't change the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u113	I assume we're talking about the same letter. The letter also states that the VAT increase can only lead to jobs if it is directed back. Older people and inactive people then pay the VAT increase, but do not benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u114	No, because it also says, for example, that there will be a reduction in the first instalment of taxes, which will also benefit the elderly. Targeted measures are then necessary to ensure that older people and beneficiaries do not deteriorate. Let us be clear: we consider that reasonable. This tax review is, in the opinion of the VVD, which is always called upon to simplify and make work more attractive. We make this choice, including its consequences. If you choose, you have to choose. From Mr Krol's perspective, I understand that he will find something else. He's clear, too. He says, "I stand for the elderly and I think that's where the money should go." I also choose the elderly, but above all because of their concern: they see that their children and grandchildren may now be out of work. They want these kids to have a future and get back to work. That is why we believe that this tax review is necessary and we are happy to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u115	I would advise Mr Zijlstra to talk to the people on the street. Then he will find that there is no older person who would deny a dime to his children and grandchildren. However, this group has deteriorated the most in recent years. If these plans are implemented, they will deteriorate again. Why is Mr Zijlstra blocking the calculation of these plans by the Nibud, and why is he not looking at the reports of the ANBO that have appeared today? He'll be squeaking differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u116	The figures that have been published today show on paper that the elderly are not going into decline. There is a group of older people who are even slightly improving on it. That's a fact. Mr Krol shakes his head of not, but it is clearly on paper. I'd advise him to re-read it. We are talking here about the tax system, about what we are doing with the 5 billion relief and the billions that will be available at the time of a further reform of the system. These are the facts. If Mr Krol wishes to deny it, I would advise him to look again at the cabinet letter. It's all in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u117	Mr Zijlstra is challenging me. Let's meet one thing together, then we can agree very quickly. I don't believe those figures from the cabinet. However, I do believe in the Nibud's calculations. If Mr Zijlstra agrees that there will be, we will see who is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u118	Then I suggest that Mr Krol immediately table a motion of censure, because if he does not believe the figures sent by the cabinet, then we have no basis for a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u119	Mr Zijlstra and I do not agree very often. However, we do share the principle that you should not transfer accounts to future generations. Does the VVD group recognise that this applies not only to hard-euro accounts, to pennies, but also to ecological debt, which we can choose whether or not to transfer to those who come after us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u120	Governing is forward-looking and so you look at all the aspects that that entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u121	That is a wonderful answer, but no answer to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u122	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u123	The question is: does the VVD group recognise that there is also an ecological debt that we have to take responsibility for? I am not under any illusions as to whether we should do this by means of a tax review. We still have quite a little rubbert to fight about. The simple question, however, is: does the VVD group recognise that there is also an ecological debt, which is even greater than the sovereign debt that the VVD seems to be concerned about a little exclusively? There's that ecological debt, too. Does the VVD recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u124	No. Those are very big words, "recognizing an ecological debt," and I have nothing to do with that. However, I would like to make it clear that, as a party and as a parliament, we must deal responsibly with the environment and with our planet. In it you will find me by your side. To be honest, however, I think that the Animal Party is totally out of control. Then I do not think you are dealing with the environment and with the way in which we should govern this country. So we're not gonna agree on that. We can agree on what the CDA always calls "good stewardship." I'm fine with that. You're looking at what it takes to leave this country well, in all aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u125	The VVD says she's the party for the entrepreneurs. How does Mr Zijlstra assess the signal that jobs will disappear in many sectors? NYFER says thousands of jobs will disappear in the hospitality economy. The hairdressing industry is talking about 5,500 jobs. Does the VVD also stand for the small entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u126	Our starting point is that the reform of the system should make labour as cheap as possible. There is a great deal of work in labour-intensive services. They will therefore very much benefit from reducing the cost of labour. We will always look at what it means for employment and for entrepreneurs, because entrepreneurs provide jobs. However, I would say to Mr Kuzu that we must be careful not to take one aspect out of it and forget to say that there is another aspect that can be very beneficial to entrepreneurs. We will enter into discussions with the entrepreneurs with a naturally positive attitude. We will see which package comes out. Again, we're happy to enter into these conversations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u127	If we can believe the models of the CPB and the cabinet, there will indeed be 60,000 jobs. Is it the cabinet's statement that 60,000 jobs are added to a net number? Or do jobs come in on the one hand and jobs disappear on the other? It is not a good starting point when it is not about an increase in the net number. I hope that Mr Zijlstra shares this with me. Can Mr Zijlstra agree that the number of jobs involved is a net number?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u128	I'm not in the cabinet, but I'm happy to endorse this. It would make little sense if 60,000 jobs were added on the one hand and we lost half a million jobs on the other. That wouldn't be very nice. I'd like to hear it from the cabinet, but as far as I'm concerned, those jobs need to be added net.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u129	In any case, it is a good thing that this question is passed on to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u130	Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u131	It's very nice to hear that. In any case, that can never be the intention. We'll share that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u132	Definitely. The VVD indicated in the previous elections that the country needed to be in order. We have taken tough measures for this, but we did it. The economy is moving fast now. That's why the VVD wants the hardworking Dutchman to feel the recovery. So the VVD wants the taxes down now, so working will pay more. The burden on labour can go even further down if we prove able to obtain a majority, including in the First Chamber, when parties want to commit themselves to all kinds of structural reforms in the tax system. We like to have these conversations. The door's open. We'll see where we can get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u133	Today we are discussing the revision of the tax system. A low flat tax fits nicely in there. In 2005 it was still in the election program of the VVD. In 2013, the VVD indicated that she thought it was an interesting idea. In 2014, Mr Zijlstra indicated that the idea had to be referred to the trash. What is the position of the VVD Group this year against a flat tax, a low flat tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u134	That was a lot of questions in one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u135	No, I had one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u136	In my ideal world I am very much in favour of a flat tax of 0%, but that is not realistic. The content of the package proposed by the cabinet also shows how we deal with, for example, the healthcare allowance. To all parties, including Mr Van Klaveren, I say that you cannot tackle the surcharges and at the same time introduce a flat fee. That means that everyone, an older person, someone living in a rented house or someone with low incomes, is falling dramatically. That has huge income effects. We'd rather get rid of those surcharges or simplify them. The VVD considers this more important than a flat tax. It's about what's left of people net. That is our starting point, we indicated a year ago. It's still our starting point. "Flaktak" is a beautiful word, but if you want a flat tax and no fees, you can fool half of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u137	This is total bullshit. I'm also a little freaked out by this socialist story. Mr Samsom could have kept it. It is precisely the removal of the surcharges combined with a flat tax that would create a lot of jobs and much more economic growth at the moment, which would allow a tax-free base to be built into the bottom. The people Mr Zijlstra is talking about, i.e. the elderly and people in rental homes, would not be affected by this. We've had this passed through the CPB, as I've pointed out several times. The left-wing doom scenario outlined by Mr Zijlstra does not appear at all. I regret that Mr Zijlstra's group is more concerned with gin and tonic than with introducing a low flat tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u138	I like bitter lemon more myself, but that aside. This was a beautiful pre-educated statement, but it helps if Mr Van Klaveren takes the matter for a while and then interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u139	Madam President. More work, more income and more justice. That is the commitment of the Labour Party to this tax review, because our politics are always driven by the core values of good work, security of existence and justice, but even more so because these values have been under severe pressure over recent years of severe crisis. Too many people lost their jobs, too many people still have too much trouble making ends meet. The consequences of the crisis also affected people who had neither part nor part of their cause. More work, more income and more justice. Of those goals, the latter may still be our greatest ambition. Justice means that all those people who do crucial work for a very ordinary income will be given more space. I'm talking about cleaners, factory workers, car mechanics, kitchen workers, street sweepers, accountants, shopkeepers, secretaries, police officers, teachers and nurses. They didn't cause the crisis, but they were affected by it. Sacrifices were also asked of them to make it possible to recover, and now that that recovery is coming, they must also report. Righteousness also means addressing differences in assets that are greater than smaller in time of crisis by increasing the burden of capital gains. It also serves justice if we close down the avoidance routes that are still being used frequently to avoid having to pay a tax on profits or to discourage the overhanging of companies in debt. Even then, you promote justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u140	It was about power, and then I'm gonna spring up. It was mainly about addressing wealth and inequality. Is it therefore intended to raise more money from those assets?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u141	No, the intention is to address the capital differences that are greater than smaller in crisis time. You can do that by taxing capital gains on savings other than capital gains on investments. We know that there is a different return on saving than on investing. With the current system that we have for 15 years now, everyone who charges 4% of the return will have to pay taxes on it. The intention, as the cabinet has now committed or announced, is, of course, to do so in a more just way. Saving has a lower return. We'll raise that. Let us therefore justly lay the burden on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u142	I'm hooking on that address. You can just say that you think it's important to do something with power and then you've addressed it. The question is, of course, what are you really gonna do? We see that income from capital taxes and profits from companies have been lagging behind in recent years. Is it therefore Mr Samsom's ambition to get more money out of there? Can we talk about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u143	We can talk about everything, but our ambition is to reduce the differences in assets and to tax more fairly the profits made on assets. That is our ambition. I think that's what people are most helped with. So those are all those savers who have seen in recent years that they have to pay 1.2% tax on their savings account that generates less than 1% interest, which is not fair, while investors who have achieved around 15% to 20% return in the last year have to pay 1.2%. If you do that more righteously, based on the real returns that people make, then you slowly but surely reduce those power differences and contribute to justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u144	If we zoom out for a moment now, it is about the overall balance in society to move towards a new balance. If you see that profits do not return to the wallet because wages are not increased, it would be good to tackle them and thereby create a shift, where we currently tax labour and not profit. That would be a very sensible slide, wouldn't it? I do not hear much of that in Mr Samsom's story. He is only talking about box 3, but I am also talking about box 2 and the tax on profits and, above all, the possibilities of circumvention that are contained in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u145	You asked a question about wealth, and I answered it. Now you ask a question about profits and then you get another answer. Then it's about tackling e.g. avoidance routes. That is explicitly stated in the cabinet's letter. That is what we want to do, also to promote justice there. There are also intentions and ideas, for which a broad majority still needs to be found in the Chamber, in order to deal differently with the treatment of equity and debt. You could talk about ideas like that, even to promote justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u146	Once upon a time, Lord Samsom called justice making it more contributed by wealthy people to society. Over the past year, the rate of tax revenue on labour has risen sharply while the rate of tax revenue on capital has fallen sharply. Now Mr Samsom says that it should be distributed more fairly but that it should not make an extra contribution. Where has Mr Samsom gone in recent years? Why are your ideals just gone? Why do you not dare to say out loud: let us introduce a tax on millionaires and let us increase the wealthiest and multinational companies to keep social security, education and the public sector going? Where did you go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u147	When Piketty's book appeared in Dutch translation, I did indeed give an interview to a newspaper. I said that we should become more equitable in taxing capabilities. It is unfair that savers pay a lot of tax on low return and that this is the reverse for shareholders, investors. That's exactly what I said back then. That is what is now announced in the cabinet's letter. There's no difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u148	You are hiding behind at most a fraction of what we are talking about: the fairer taxation of wealth by the savers, not the savers, but the wealthiest. Don't beat around the bush. If we want a society that is more just, the progressive parties together must have the courage to tax capital, capital, extra. This is how we free up money to make society more social and more just. You won't. You refuse to generate additional income from capital from wealthy people, millionaires, banks and multinationals. Then you can't call your party progressive anymore, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u149	Now you don't have to get all mixed up. When we talked about capital, we were indeed talking about box 2, about capital gains, about the avoidance possibilities that exist. We want those routes closed down. That is exactly what you are advocating, that is exactly what the cabinet is advocating. You're looking for differences that aren't there. By the way, we have already tightened up the approach of directors-major shareholders a little bit. That was in the recent past, in an agreement that we concluded with several parties, unfortunately not with yours. One step at a time, we are moving towards a fairer society. We are taking these steps, and the cabinet is now announcing them. You might want to join us instead of running away every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u150	I make a proposal to Mr Samsom. Is he willing to participate in proposals to actually generate more tax revenue from capital?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u151	This calls on the chairman of a party that just ran away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u152	I am standing here in the Chamber, where the debates are taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u153	Mr Roemer, Mr Samsom has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u154	I wanted to reverse the question: are you willing to talk to me about that? A table is available. I assume the cabinet's holding another seat. Are you willing to talk about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u155	Mr Samsom must know that the Chamber is the place to debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u156	That's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u157	He calls everywhere in the country that he wants to make righteous proposals, that he wants to tax capital, and the wealth of people who are millionaires, in order to maintain social security. What happens in practice? He's not asking for a dime from that category. Well, we just keep people with the lowest incomes at zero. We're even gonna let them dive into thin air if the VAT plans go ahead. It's a nice game.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u158	That last point is demonstrable nonsense. At the first point there is a difference between the SP and the Labour Party. We are not only calling it out in the country, as you are, but we are trying to make it happen, and we are also doing so, with proposals that are now in the Cabinet letter. We are taxing assets more fairly, we are closing out avoidance routes, by which companies circumvent their tax on profits, and we are taking a few more steps in the future. If you were in on it, we could make those steps a little bigger. I invite you to do so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u159	Justice is the key word in Mr Samsom's contribution so far. I wonder what his definition of justice is. Does Mr Samsom think it is fair that the social minima in the years of the economic crisis have had to turn in and have had to write a minus for purchasing power rates and that the same social minima are now at 0?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u160	In the broad sense, not just in the tax plan, but in the coalition's entire policy, we have made one very important agreement with each other. We've made more agreements, but there was one in relation to the question you're asking. We have agreed that the distribution of income will be more equitable. The same applies to the minima. We've done that for the past two years. At the purchasing power talks in August, the results of which will then end up in the budget presented on Princess Day, we have succeeded in doing so every time, and we will now succeed in doing so again. Now we are talking about the tax plan. This is not just about justice, but also about more work and more income. I'll get to that later. The specific choices we make in the tax plan are about more work, because people who have benefits want nothing more than getting a job. In general terms, I believe that it is part of justice that the minima also improve a little in purchasing power. I'm proud that we were able to make that deal in the coalition and that we're still making it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u161	We'll see about that in the purchasing power cards after Princess Day. I look forward to that. We are discussing the tax plan today. In recent years, we have had to have social minima written down specifically by means of tax measures for purchasing power. The PvdA spokesperson is now making a whole speech about justice. I note, however, that he keeps the social minimums at zero and says: we'll put it off for a while and we'll be fine later. In my view, that does not show much justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u162	The tax plan is not about the care allowance, which we have increased in recent years in order to avoid the minimum levels, or about the child-related budget, where, in recent years, we have turned our backs on mothers with children in order to avoid the social minimums. A tax plan is about the tax discs. There too, there is still a lot of justice to be done, as I said. Our choices are also about more work and more income. Those are the other main objectives of this operation. More work is achieved by significantly reducing the tax burden on labour, especially where the pressure is greatest: in low-income or very ordinary-income jobs. More income is left to people if they have to pay less taxes or if childcare becomes cheaper. In the package that the cabinet is now presenting to the Chamber, all these elements come back to an extent which until recently was not considered possible by many. A targeted reduction in labour costs of 0.5 billion for low incomes, so that cleaners, land managers, cashiers and all the others will have a greater chance of getting a job, 2.5 billion for the labour cut, 250 million for working partners, 250 million to make childcare affordable, a fairer capital tax aimed at real returns, which will stop savers from paying more tax than they receive interest, and tackling avoidance routes for profit. The Labour Party is very satisfied with this package. However, the cabinet sees opportunities to go even further. It is possible to create even more jobs and to improve people even more if you shift the burden from labour to consumption. That's not a simple operation, and it's an operation with countless variants. Such a step can only be achieved if parties from all these options are able to put together a tax slide for which there is broad support. The Labour Party is willing, with parties who want to think about it, to table with the Cabinet to see what is possible. We are open to all good suggestions and proposals. Maybe we still have a few of our own. For us, therefore, it is not the individual measures that guide us, but the objectives that must be achieved with the whole of this tax review: more work, more income and more justice. After all, everyone deserves the chance of a good life, with a job with a fair income. It is a responsibility of all of us to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u163	I don't envy Mr Samsom. He is on trial for a fairer organisation of society, including the tax system. However, he knows more than anyone what the problems of climate change and the ecological crisis are. However, he is with a partner in the government who completely denies that there is an ecological debt. You're just gonna stand there. Mr Samsom is well aware of what is needed, namely a shift in the burden on labour towards pollution taxation and the pricing of scarcity. Our experience with the Secretary of State is that this is quickly seen as complicated and difficult. It's got to be simpler. If the goal of greening and the goal of simplification is to wring, what does the Labour Party choose: greening or simplification?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u164	We then opt for a shift from labour to consumption which is quite simple. This is how you come up with proposals on VAT, which is a shift from labour to consumption. I believe that the Animal Party has announced in advance that it does not wish to participate at all. If she had seen otherwise, she could have looked at this measure as something of her liking: shifting burdens from labour to consumption. Making work cheaper and price consumption a little more; that makes society fairer and greener.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u165	I'm a little sorry about Mr. Samsom. That he's trying to do this at the SP, they're just gonna have to fight together. However, the Animal Party simply welcomed the Secretary of State, gave him coffee, we explained our ideas and then he didn't come back. He only wants to talk to parties who want to join him in the existing boxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u166	My sincere apologies to Mrs Ouwehand. I missed that coffee and so much. She and the Secretary of State are just trying to figure out what went wrong there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u167	Mrs Ouwehand wanted to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u168	Does the Labour Party choose greening or simplification? Mr Samsom cannot get away with: we are moving towards a shift on consumption. That's not greening. It's simple, but it's not greening. Greening would be taxing consumption which is actually polluting. Those aren't the bikemaker, the shoemaker or the tailor, where people with their old clogs go to get repaired so they don't have to buy any new shit. So let me ask the question again: is greening going to be fair, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u169	So simple greening is also possible. The proposals also include asking a little more for the keeping of animals, the breeding of animals or the slaughter of animals, if I may say so out loud here, and to make the burden on labour a little cheaper. Those are exactly the things that matter. In any case, energy consumption is a polluting activity. If you were to impose a little more tax on that, you would make society a little greener. So you can also make such proposals. In the case of energy, thanks to the history that we have in this country, this is quite easy to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u170	I would like to give Mr Samsom what he knows best, but you have to differentiate in that. One consumption contributes to a sustainable society and the other does not. Mr Samsom knows that. I'd say hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u171	Mr Samsom is talking about a slaughter tax, but I think he calls it the meat tax. This is the only VAT where there is a gradual consensus between the parties that are going to participate. But the cabinet is proposing to increase VAT for 5 billion and to make it more effective in terms of labour costs. What is Mr Samsom's general view of an increase in VAT? Is that a proposal that he says can be made, and not just that meat tax? Or does he say, no, we don't want to talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u172	I have already said that we want to talk about this, provided that it serves the purposes of this whole operation, namely more income, more work, more justice. So if you are going to do something with VAT, you will also have to compensate people who are not working but are consuming it, and I see Mr Krol standing there, eagerly as ever, by, for example, significantly reducing the tax in the first disc. You can and then contribute to more work at the same time but also to a little more justice. Then the people who stand up for Mr Krol and what we stand up for, and you too, Mr Buma, will see some of that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u173	If Mr Samsom so concretely indicates where it is going, namely the reduction of the first disc, he should also be able to indicate where VAT will be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u174	We've been walking around in this Chamber for a while now, so you know that if you raise taxes on consumption, you won't just reduce taxes on labour, because there are also people who don't work and consume. Therefore, as an example I mentioned the first disk as an option to do so. How this is going to work out in the near future is the discussion that we hope to enter into with as many parties as possible. It's no secret the PvdA wants to talk about that. That was more or less announced in the cabinet's letter. My confirmation of this also contributes to this, so that Mr Buma can ask 15 more questions and then he gets 15 answers in the affirmative. Yes, we want to talk about this, provided that it serves the goals we are facing, namely more work, more income and more justice for people. Not every single measure can be discussed here at the interrupt microphone. Mr Buma has already made many unsuccessful attempts to do so with my colleagues, but we can agree here on the objectives of this operation and thus on the commitment to the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u175	Mr Buma needs a third question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u176	Mr Samsom now reduces the VAT increase to a few individual measures, but it concerns whole sectors that may receive a VAT increase, such as the tourism sector and all kinds of sectors in agriculture. I hear a lot of parties now saying: toppie, we are going to tax consumption more, in this case we are going to lower the first disc, but the Netherlands is also entitled to know how that price is paid. That is what Mr Samsom should tell us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u177	If it succeeds, because for that we need more parties together, we all determine where the price is paid and how it is returned. It is indeed more than a few measures, it is a rather complex operation. That is now the essence of the conversation we are all going to have, where the room is as far as we are concerned to add any nice new idea that can contribute to more work, more income and more justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u178	I am honoured, because I had not yet asked a question, Mr Buma stood here and Mr Samsom already answered what my constituents really want to hear. Once upon a time, Mr Samsom, my supporters were also your supporters. So go ahead and tell us what other plans you have in mind to meet those who used to be yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u179	My speech was just finished, so that's getting complicated. I do not think this was a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u180	Let us just talk about the whole of the Netherlands, all citizens should, I think, have our attention and not just those who are behind us. I have a question for Mr Samsom about the 5 billion and the way in which it is to be filled out, and I have just spoken to Mr Zijlstra about it very emphatically. Is there room for the Labour Party, if there is money available that we are also using for the revision of the tax system, to look at the group of non-working people who will not benefit from all kinds of reductions in the burden of labour?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u181	The latter is only partly the case. You can see that pensioners also benefit from lowering certain tax discs, and that happens quite quickly when you start with the second disc. It is less absolute than Mr Slob says. If we all come to a package, where we ask people for something, we will, of course, come to a package where we give some back to the people. We will then all make the choice to whom we ask and return what exactly to what extent. That's the essence of politics: who do you pick it up from and who do you give it back to? Hopefully this will be as fair as possible. We have indicated that our priority is more work, more income and also more justice. These three aspects sometimes conflict somewhat with each other, so you have to balance. That is why I welcome the fact that pensioners, for example, are making some progress in the proposals and can also make a little more progress if we dare to go further with the proposals, but let us see what we come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u182	Does "greater justice" also apply to the categories of chronically ill, disabled people and those who provide care, who often choose to provide a little less paid work in order to be able to provide this kind of care, but who, if these plans continue, might be properly paid for this later?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u183	I don't think they're getting a bill presented. I didn't see that in the plans. If this proves to be the case, Mr Slob may be sitting at the table to prevent this and he would have my support. At present, we do not present an account to people who choose to provide care, for example. We do see that people who choose to go to work are getting something better. That's right; that's a choice we're making. However, this is not the same as placing an account with someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u184	Perhaps for the sake of clarity: the moment you choose to do less paid work because you want to provide care, you turn in your salary. If those who do work fully will soon be faced with a reduction in the burden on labour, they will see a lot of positive effects. In that sense, you will have a negative impact on the choice you make if you decide to provide care that is important to those in question who need this care, which we also encourage in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u185	I'm trying to understand this reasoning. I think I understand. I also believe, if this is the case, that we should just sit around the table and see how we can respond to it. We'll find each other there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u186	When Mrs Ouwehand asked for a greening, Mr Samsom came up with the taxation of consumption and thus the VAT increase. We all know that there are all kinds of things in there, services and goods, which do not make a major contribution to environmental pollution at all. I am thinking of books or the services of a bicycle maker. The question is therefore whether Mr Samsom is open to alternatives that really mean greening. Such alternatives are also included in Mr Samsom's programme. I would like to mention a levy on the discharge of residual heat, the taxation of freight traffic and the somewhat more differentiation in energy taxation. According to Mr Samsom, are these possible options that should be considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u187	In fact, there are already ideas for energy taxation. The answer can be guessed: yes. Those ideas are even in proposals. If GroenLinks also stays at the table, then we can make it happen with all of us. Mr Klaver is right to say that not every form of consumption is equally polluting. But a shift from labour to consumption in general, we always called the progressive green movement "a greening of the tax system."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u188	Mr Samsom may call it what he wants, but my question deals very specifically with a number of specific issues that we would address. Let us look at much more where there is a high level of pollution. I have mentioned the consumption of meat as an example. Could we look at how we can achieve greening measures that generate a lot of money and which we can then use to create more work and stimulate the Dutch economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u189	We can talk about all these ideas, but if Mr Klaver wants to provoke something, I have to say that the meatball tax is not the first thing the Labour Party is thinking of when it comes to greening taxes. The PvdA does think about the load of energy and the slightly heavier use of larger users of energy. Ideas have already been formulated for this. For example, Mr. Klaver has a bit of a shade of colour. I don't think we're gonna get much further on this microphone, but I see he's gonna try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u190	That'll be the last time. Go ahead, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u191	I am glad that Mr Samsom is giving the room for this. I am also pleased that he says that we should not look for it with the consumer, which is actually done with an increase in VAT, but with large consumers. I am very much in favour of that. I think we can make the biggest hitters if we tackle the big business. That's what we like to talk about. I'm tasting room for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u192	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u193	Mr. Chairman. I'm not a fiscalist. I am also very reluctant to speak here in the Chamber as a single member of this large group chairmen' debate. However, in this case, I would like to use my right to speak to share my experience with the Chamber and to give my views on the plans. As the son of a small self-employed person, a bicycle maker and pump holder at the border, I know what effects there are in excise decisions and in VAT decisions. As a former spokesman in the field of horticulture, I know that it would have negative effects on horticulture if one went from the low to the high rate. It could also have effects in Europe if you advocate low VAT rates, but then introduce the high rate yourself. That would, I think, undermine credibility. According to figures from horticulture, it would cost 10,000 jobs. My question is, are those numbers correct? What figures does the cabinet have? Could this also apply to recreation and tourism? What figures are there? As regards the measures that have been proposed and the things that have been mentioned, I would be in favour of considering municipal taxes, including a resident tax, but not the ICI or something like that, because I do not think you should link them to real estate. I have one more question about the VAT adjustments. I also have an alternative. Would it be possible, instead of a shift from the low to the high fare, to raise the low fare a little and perhaps lower the high fare a little, so that you reduce the difference in that way? I hope I get answers to these questions. Depending on that, I can make my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u194	That is the end of the first term on the part of the Chamber. I propose that lunch and suspension be combined and that we not start work after lunch, for which I now have 12 requests, so that would take some time to proceed with the debate immediately. We shall then proceed to the settlement after this afternoon's vote. I note that this is agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u195	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for all the discussion in the first term of the Chamber. There have been relatively few questions asked to the cabinet. So I don't have a lot of answers here either, simply for lack of questions. But that is good; asking questions is not an obligation. I would like to reiterate the objectives of the coalition and the cabinet. What do we want to achieve with a change in the tax system? Several parties have already mentioned improving the growth capacity of the economy, aimed at creating more jobs in the Netherlands. One of the problems that we see in the ever-increasing economic recovery is that the improvement in employment remains inadequate. By the way, if you look at employment underlying, you can see that it is greatly improving. But as a result of the increase in supply on the labour market, unemployment is, on balance, falling less than we consider desirable. Objective 1 is therefore the strengthening of economic growth, aimed at creating jobs and jobs. Objective two is to simplify the tax system. Mr Pechtold referred to this as the "great cleaning" which should be carried out on a regular basis. Simplification should make the tax system more transparent. This in itself, of course, also contributes to the first objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u196	Mr Pechtold, I see you want to interrupt. We'll do the interruptions in threes in this period. Of course, you can do it in two; you have shown that you can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u197	It can even be in one, as long as the answer is equally clear. Sometimes it's necessary to do it in two or threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u198	Yeah, and sometimes that's not enough, either, I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u199	My interruption is about creating jobs. That is indeed something other than employment, although I think many people are confusing it. In September, the cabinet said that we are coming up with a package that will create 100,000 jobs. Was the cabinet surprised, surprised or disappointed when it appeared that even in the most ambitious package that is now before us, the counter is on a lean 60 000?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u200	Following the examination at the various groups, the measures to be taken were examined, in conjunction with the effects to be accepted on the purchasing power of different groups. There are certain buttons and opportunities to create even more jobs within the existing limits of burden relief and burden shifting. However, you try to take the broadest possible account of the views expressed in the Chamber, both as regards the desirability of measures and as regards the effects on specific groups in terms of purchasing power. Certain buttons and possibilities are more limited than if you could philosophize ins freie over them. If you didn't have the clamps and obstacles of that tour, it's possible to get to higher numbers. However, we are dealing with a number of views and with different political groups. I am thinking, for example, of the purchasing power of the elderly and the unemployed, but also of certain measures. With this mix of measures and purchasing power desires you come up with these, yet still very significant, employment effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u201	That's not true. In the letter sent to us by the Secretary of State in September, he assumed a reform and a reversal of 10 to 15 billion and a bribe of 5 billion. That was to make it possible with relief. Then the cabinet came up to 100,000 jobs. Now it turns out that there are only 60,000, even with the largest package that stands at 14 billion. And if you let go of all the wishes, let alone the reins celebrate and try to do some load relief, you'll even get to half the 60,000. Then you're at 30,000 or 35,000 jobs. I'm assuming that in September, mathematicians were already watching. So the cabinet knew when it made those statements, that it had to be a big package to get to 100,000 jobs. But that didn't happen. This marginal package, which reduces the burden slightly, has hardly any effect on the runway engine. I therefore believe that the Prime Minister should explain himself further. What rosy picture did he sketch in September and why is he satisfied with the minimum variant?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u202	I have to refer to my answer to Mr Pechtold's first question, in which I tried to be complete and complete, also challenged by him. The final impact of the various measures in terms of increasing employment growth is, of course, highly dependent on the mix of measures you choose. New since last September is that we now have much more insight into what can count on support, not only here, but also on the other side. Let us be honest: we are also looking at the support on the other side. So you need a wide range of parties. As a coalition, you are not completely free to choose the mix of measures. You certainly have to take into account the views that live here. This applies both to concrete changes in the tax system and to wishes that live on ranges of purchasing power development of different groups, based on the level of income and whether or not one is working. If you do that, there will of course be a number of clamps for what is possible. If you try to take maximum account of that, you can see that you still have very significant employment effects. I think it is a challenge for the parties who are willing to talk further to see if that will give rise to an even better mix, so that those numbers can eventually rise. I think that is our common task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u203	Your predictive gift is truly fantastic, Mr. Chairman. I need three interruptions anyway, because the answer still cracks in its joints. If the Prime Minister now takes the view that this package has been put together on the basis of feasibility, decisively what has been handed over to various political groups, then I really do not understand which parties here today seem to say something different in public than in the discussion with the Secretary of State. I am not talking about the third package, but about the second package, which includes, for example, the VAT measure. The Prime Minister says that there has been a good look at what ends up getting 38 seats in the First Chamber. It surprised me today who has all run away from something like this before and during the debate. Either the Secretary of State didn't do his homework properly or the Cabinet presents us a package I've just compared to: we're all allowed to eat, but we're out of food and we can come and do the dishes. What parties have suggested that package two is a real package? Not that the jobs are getting any better, but at least it has a little more ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u204	In any case, it turns out how elitist D66 is, when Mr. Pechtold thinks that if you eat at McDonald's, that was his example, you should wash up. All this stuff is throwable and therefore not always environmentally friendly, I must add. Back to the main point. The Secretary of State has, of course, had to drop a number of things on the basis of the discussions. That was also mentioned in the letter. It concerns, for example, the important and far-reaching clean-up of deductions. There is little support for this. That will have to be done more step by step in the coming years. A second thought that has been explored is about the possibilities for a different burden-sharing in terms of life, work and not work. There is too little support for this too. The other elements contained in the letter are not so much elements of which the coalition says: you have to do them in a second package. Those are all those elements that have been mentioned by many parties. It is correct to name them and to see if it is possible to achieve a further tax shift in conjunction with them, building on the relief that is already possible. Back to the effect on the jobs. Of course, this will depend to a large extent on the design. Again, I find it a common challenge to see if you can stay close to the initial ambitions. That will really depend on: how do you give back and what mix of measures do you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u205	The Prime Minister reiterates the two goals which the Cabinet had already stated last year that they are leading the discussions on the revision of the tax system: simplifying and creating additional jobs. As a Christian Union, we have indicated from the outset that we support these objectives, but that it is broader for us: greening, which can also create green jobs, pay attention to those who are forced to stand side by side, sometimes because of illness, and thus are not in the pay-for-work circuit and are burdening wealth fairly. We have more goals than just the two objectives that the cabinet has. That doesn't always have to bite each other, but sometimes that happens on parts. My very simple question is whether there is room for that. If we are going to talk about this further, it must also be useful to talk about these aspects. If our starting points are so far apart, we may not even have to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u206	The answer is yes, that space is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u207	This means, in order to take one part out of it, that if we think that chronically ill, disabled and carers should also be included in the revision of the tax system, for example in the way that the 5 billion will be spent, then the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u208	I will give a more general answer to that. That has to do with my remarks in the media in the run-up to this debate and in the run-up to the sandwich we used together, last Wednesday at Mr Wiebes' office. As I deal here with concrete measures, suggestions, examples and so on, there is a huge increase in the risk that we will not come out of it. So I'm not gonna do that. I simply note that a few things stand up for the coalition. We value the fact that for next year there will be some 4 billion in relief for the next year, which will have to be made clear in August. If the parties who are willing to talk about the 5 billion are also willing to talk about possible further measures, we too are prepared to talk about the implementation of the 5 billion, in terms of: how do you give them back? Well, then there's got to be a commitment to keep talking. I don't think it makes much sense if parties just want to talk about that first stage. However, if parties are willing to consider how to use this 5 billion for a broader tax reform, then we are talking about the whole thing. Those are the contours. That means there's a lot to be done. We will have to look at such a table to see if we can make a social and political mix that is portable for all people at the table and has the desired social effects. If I want to promote that process, I have to slow myself down to display my usual openness here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u209	If the Prime Minister's gonna slow himself down, maybe it's gonna be something. My question was not to start the debate on these groups at a detailed level. I understand that that is difficult, because there is a lot of technology attached to it and it listens very closely. My question was, above all, whether there is room for attention to be paid to these specific groups, not only in terms of the implementation of the 5 billion but also in terms of the overall revision of the tax system. Indeed, it is not just about spending the 5 billion; more aspects are attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u210	Once again, there are two points. Firstly, if parties are willing to talk about more than that charge refund, then the coalition is willing to talk about the whole thing. In that case, responsibility must be taken for more than just the refund. We are prepared to do so without any obstacles in advance. At the same time, of course, we know where parties stand, what is and what is not possible. At a table like this, you're gonna have to see if you can come to an end. Maybe we can't. Things don't always work out. I can do a lot of things. Maybe I can't. I think, however, that we should make serious efforts to achieve this. That's why I really want to stay away from all these examples. I can see Mr Krol at the interrupting microphone, which is about to talk about young people. And in a moment Mr Buma will be bringing up his theme, the inhabitants of the big cities. If I went into that, I'd be afraid I'd destroy the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u211	I would very much like the Prime Minister's insurance for the elderly to do so, and I am not ashamed that, because of the increases in, for example, VAT, they will ultimately not pay for the benefits of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u212	You can't prick on an individual level who exactly gets or doesn't get a bonus. I don't think that's the point either. The aim is to make sure that gross mode is the thought that lives in the cabinet... that older people and people who do not work do not decline on it. The elderly are even a little ahead of it; I believe a quarter, that is very limited. This has to do with the current attitude of the cabinet with regard to what you might do in the second and third discs. I realize that's up for discussion. How exactly that works out at micro level, of course I cannot give any guarantees about that. I think that is what a number of others in the Chamber have said. I heard Mr Samsom, Mr Zijlstra and others say: what you want to achieve is more jobs. I have to say, and on that point I sometimes disagree with Mr Krol, that older people in the Netherlands are not only interested in their own purchasing power, I also keep an eye on them, because they are very relevant but also attach importance to their children and grandchildren having work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u213	The Prime Minister will certainly agree with me that that is the group that has had to turn in the most in recent times. If that group were to be given more space, there would also be more money in the economy. That is also good for the children and the grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u214	It's called "pumping around." I think it is best for the elderly to have more jobs, thereby creating economic growth and providing a longer-term perspective for older people in terms of purchasing power. However, this is really the result of economic growth. You can't do that by pumping money around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u215	It is not yet quite clear whether, in particular, the package on top of the first package, "the second package," so the big shift from labour to consumption, to VAT, is something that the Prime Minister himself wants or that it is just something that the cabinet throws in the group "for whomever wants it" and, if others want it, says: well, then we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u216	That is a suggestion that has been mentioned by many parties. I will not mention those parties here in particular, not to make it more painful, but that suggestion has been mentioned by many parties. This is often the result of the electoral programmes, so the public sources help us in this respect too. It is, once again, also mentioned in the confidential conversations, but I do not mention any other parties. If the suggestions about what you can do on top of a tax refund were sufficiently large, the cabinet would think it correct to put them here and talk about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u217	That's a very special answer. The Prime Minister said: others come with it, we don't have to. At the same time, he says you can't talk until you want that second package. I hear different parties and they do not give the impression that they come together to a very substantial second package. Then the Prime Minister says: I think it's okay, but you can't talk anymore. That's weird. Either the cabinet itself stands for something and brings it into discussion, or the cabinet thinks: well, the first package is nice. It's one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u218	Two things are not right in Mr Buma's interruption. Firstly, it is not true that I would have excluded parties, for example on the side of the coalition. I do not mention any parties that have mentioned suggestions. The fact that they are on the list means that sufficient parties have mentioned the suggestion to give a view of a majority on the other side of this type of proposal. Secondly, I am not asking you to sign at the cross for what is called 'a second package'. That's not what the letter is about either. In the letter we are talking about a whole list of additional measures that you could take to achieve further reform of the tax system aimed at further boosting employment, using the scope available for reducing burdens. My view is as follows. If parties were only willing to talk about that base, giving back the 5 billion, I would say: yes, so can the coalition itself. However, if the parties are willing to take responsibility for a greater change in our tax system in general, I do not ask the parties to sign a specific measure, then the cabinet is prepared to talk about the whole thing. As far as this change is concerned, there is, by the way, a whole list of possibilities. VAT is one of them, but there are others. All these possibilities you can still dimension and shape. You can still talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u219	However, that is not the answer to the question. The question is, what does the cabinet think? Now the Prime Minister says again: yes, if those others want to, then we want to talk about it. Yeah, it's good! I am very glad that I did not choose to wait in the back room until the cabinet asks the other parties what they want and then to see the cabinet go out with the statement: we don't have to, but they wanted it. What does this Prime Minister want? He has three packages: the first is relief of charges, the second is VAT increase for relief of charges and the third is shifting to municipalities for relief of charges. Which one of those three does he want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u220	The round of the Secretary of State has shown that there is support for all kinds of measures in sufficient parties for a majority also in the First Chamber. I would like to talk about these types of measures, about measures that go beyond the refund of the tax relief that is now possible, in order to achieve greater ambition in a tax reform that goes beyond just that refund. Of course, this refund in itself has all kinds of beneficial economic effects and income effects, but I think we have the task of doing the search with each other to see what opportunities we can use to achieve a broader system change. I would like to say once again that the letter that we sent to the Chamber last week, also at the request of the parties meeting in the Ministry of Finance, shows what measures could in any case be sufficiently supported, and we still have to talk about dimensioning, design and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u221	I have another question about the objectives of the tax review. I understand that the Prime Minister says that he is not going into all kinds of technology and parts right now because that is not something that comes to his mind in the debate. In 2011, there was a Dijkgraaf motion, which received a majority in the Chamber. It asked the government to consider how to adapt the tax system. One of the goals was then to see how you can better embezzle family care and volunteering, the unpaid work, in the tax system. In my view, this has only become more topical with the whole idea of the participatory society. Where'd that go? Is that another objective of the cabinet? Does the cabinet think that it should look again at what more and different can be done on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u222	I would refer you to the answer I gave to Mr Slob's question. If I go into these specific suggestions, we are negotiating here. I'm sure someone else will run forward and say, "Yeah, but if you're gonna do that, we're not gonna do it anymore." So I hear what Mr Van der Staaij is saying. I find these suggestions understandable from his political point of view. I know that Mr Van der Staaij is prepared to continue talking. If we had said in advance that this type of conversation would not make any sense, we would have already called each other or hit each other in the backseat. That didn't happen. With regard to the parties that are prepared to take responsibility for further tax reform, I will therefore stick to my general response. From the coalition there are no taboos in advance, but of course you know within what bandwidths you work about when you sit down with those parties. We need to be real about that. Of course, we're not going to reinvent the world entirely. The Labour Party, the VVD, the SGP, the Christian Union, GroenLinks and D66 all have established political views that they will undoubtedly bring in and that also limit the compromises that you can make together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u223	I understand that the Prime Minister does not agree with an idea of a household compliment or an approach here or there. My question is more fundamental. He's in charge of the targets. I hope that the question "How can we also strengthen the participatory society through the tax system?" is not only something of the SGP, but also of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u224	I understand that request. I also think we should have that conversation. Perhaps there are instruments where you do so outside the tax system. Perhaps there are brilliant things to think about within the tax system, which also fit within the objectives of employment and reducing the hassle, simplification. I'd say let's have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u225	I would first like to make a general comment. Then I'll ask the Prime Minister a question. My general comment is as follows. All parliamentarians who debate, make proposals and vote in this Chamber assume their responsibilities. They thus fulfil the task for which they are paid. Let's get this straight. My question concerns the statement by Mr De Boer of VNO-NCW. He called job seekers "slubbers" and "slammings." I've read that the Prime Minister has distanced himself from that. Why did the Prime Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u226	For the reason that Mr Roemer could also read in the ANP message. I did that because I thought it was an inappropriate statement. When I was asked to explain this further, I said that any further explanation would be painful for the giver of the interview.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u227	I don't care. Then he shouldn't have given that interview. I want to know why the Prime Minister thinks it's inappropriate. Does he think it's inappropriate because of the language or because of the content?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u228	The second. As for the first thing, I don't think we should be afraid of labels. It's because of the second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u229	Then we come to an important point: the cabinet itself does no different. The cabinet says that the gap between working and not working must be greatly increased. I heard the VVD earlier saying that it gives people an incentive to go to work. This puts the more than 500,000 job seekers, who try every day to find a job and don't get it, away as people who aren't trying hard enough to find work that isn't there. The Prime Minister may be angry at Mr De Boer of VNO-NCW, but his policy suggests the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u230	That really requires a more nuanced answer. I would ask Mr Roemer to give me a chance to do so. Unfortunately, there are no 500,000 jobseekers in the Netherlands, but more than 600,000. A large proportion of these people are short-term unemployed. Around one million jobs are released every year in the Netherlands. People go on to another job and then jobs will be available again, which will be filled up again. Fortunately, a large part of the unemployed in the Netherlands succeeds in getting such a freed-up job. Unfortunately, there is also a group that is more long-term unemployed and that calls for specific measures. The best way to combat unemployment is economic growth, because then more jobs will be created and people will be able to work. We want to achieve more jobs with the tax reform. The main objective of this coalition is to restore employment. I am dissatisfied because unemployment is still high, even though the economic figures are improving. This has to do with the large increase in labour supply as we work longer and more people who had left the labour market have joined the labour market. I want them to have a chance, too, and that this doesn't push the people who have been looking for a job for a long time. For that, you need to boost employment. You can do that by making work pay, by making people with jobs earn more. It is decent that this is not at the expense of people with benefits. So neither do we. We're not gonna take any money out of there, and they're not gonna go backwards. But the priority of this tax reform is indeed to promote employment in the interests, almost exclusively in the interests of, of course, all of us, but very specifically of those who are not currently working.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u231	Mr Roemer, this will be your fourth interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u232	The first two were actually only one, because the Prime Minister did not answer. What the Prime Minister says is not true. At best, this will be 35,000 jobs. In health care alone, more jobs disappear. If we want to get more people to work, it will not help if we allow others to work longer. If we were to improve purchasing power, I would have liked to hear it from the same Prime Minister last year when we proposed it. Apparently, it was bullshit back then. The gap between workers and non-working people is now deliberately widening. People with the lowest income are not making any progress, older people are not making any progress, job seekers are not making any progress and people with disabilities are not making any progress. In doing so, the Prime Minister suggests that there is a need for an incentive for those people to work, otherwise he would not widen the gap. By saying that and by doing so, he says in a little more friendly words exactly the same as Hans de Boer of VNO-NCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u233	That is simply not true. The purpose of the cabinet is not to increase the difference between someone with a benefit and someone who works. Our goal is to increase the chances of people with benefits getting started, and for that you need economic growth. If you reduce income tax directly by allowing for a reduction in that tax or by shifting the burden on labour to other taxes, there are also a number of ideas for this, which will have a highly proportional positive effect on economic growth and thus on the ability of our economy to generate new jobs. That seems to me to be a common goal, whether you are in the VVD or in the CDA or in the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u234	The importance of creating more work was discussed in September last year. There should be a shift in taxes. This was fairly widely shared in the Chamber. When I hear the cabinet now and see the plans, I get the impression that most of them are based on purchasing power images. The idea seems to be: we must ensure that we get a positive purchasing power picture, which is perhaps interesting in the run-up to the elections. This leads to my question. The Prime Minister talks about the importance of reducing the burden on labour, but why, in his plans, does the cabinet choose to extend the fourth disc? For example, people with an income higher than €52,000 come later in the high rate. Why is it chosen to reduce the load in the second and third disks? We all know that this is the least effective way to create jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u235	In the model approach to how to return the 5 billion package, the cabinet opted for a balanced purchasing power picture. Then you get to this type of numbers. It is our belief that if you do this balancedly and give it back to the various workers in the Netherlands, this also has the greatest economic impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u236	The September letter talks about a balanced distribution of income. It is not about how we can optimise purchasing power for the different groups, but about how to create as many jobs as possible. I think you should look at the backlock you're using. That is why I repeat the question of why you choose to intervene in the second, third and fourth discs, because we know that this has the least positive effect on increasing employment. Where does this shift come from from the objective of creating more work on how we can show the best possible purchasing power picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u237	Again, the model we use to give back that 5 billion is based on a balanced approach to purchasing power, without the aim of increasing or reducing income disparities. We must work towards a balanced distribution of income within the distribution of income as we know it in the Netherlands at the moment. We believe that this also has the greatest impact on economic growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u238	I have a short question to get it sharp. The proposals put forward by the cabinet are the best way of shaping the burden reduction. This is how you create most jobs. Did I understand the Prime Minister correctly? Is that his statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u239	Our belief is that the way we do this now leads to a balanced approach to the whole income building and to very good figures on the effects on economic growth. The method thus meets all the objectives set out in the letter of September, which Mr Klaver rightly refers to here, such as the objective of achieving a balanced income balance, including in the return of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u240	I asked a question about employment and I can't get an answer to that. I asked the Prime Minister whether the way in which the return lock is now regulated would achieve the maximum effect on employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u241	If you want to achieve the maximum employment effect, you have to set the benefits to zero and give twice the money of the benefits. Then you have the maximum employment effects, but I take it Mr. Klaver isn't suggesting that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u242	Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u243	Then we agree. We have been looking for a balanced backlock. Mr Klaver spoke about maximising the employment effects. I can even create a lot of jobs for the Netherlands with zero euros of tax relief, but that has huge social effects that you may not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u244	Mr President, I am being challenged here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u245	The debate goes back and forth and you can stand for another hour. You asked what happened with that backlock. The Prime Minister challenged you first and then replied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u246	The Prime Minister states that he could also have reduced the benefits, but the point is that the choice has also been made...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u247	He said clearly: we have opted for a balanced backlock. In my view, that was exactly the answer to the question you asked, so I suggest that he should go ahead now and perhaps try again later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u248	Thanks to all the interruptions, I'm almost through. I'm just gonna see if I don't insult anyone if the cabinet stops answering now. Of course, a lot of questions have been asked about all kinds of individual measures. Mr Slob, for example, asked about the effect of phasing out the general tax rebate and increasing the childcare allowance. We can now deal with this type of question here without looking at how these different measures will ultimately work out in a possible tax review, but that will really depend on it. We will have to look at this, and that will also partly depend on the purchasing power picture in August. This will, by the way, partly depend on the purchasing power picture in August. We have also said that with parties willing to look at a broader tax review, we will look with particular interest at the purchasing power picture of August, as this also shows how the tax review, as far as it falls down in 2016, will affect the purchasing power picture. Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij also asked about the development of various concrete measures. Once again, I do not think it is useful at the moment to deal with them in detail in isolation, without coherence. That's what we really need to do if we're gonna talk anymore. Then you can also see how they work together. The border effects of VAT have also been asked. We're monitoring the border effects. That is why we have said that we will leave the supermarket and food out of it in the design of a possible shift of labour charges to VAT. How are we going to compensate the lowest incomes? The people with the lowest incomes get better when they work and don't go backwards if they don't work. A further question has been asked about simplification. I can answer that now, because it is not in the way of further talks. What possibilities for simplification are there in the cabinet letter? We'll do it along two lines. First of all, we are trying to dejure the entire declaration process. We are making a number of proposals for this. Think of electronic messaging and preventing you from getting up to six legal decisions before you get a final hit. Secondly, we are looking again at deductions and specific arrangements, including in the discussions. At an abstract level, everyone says that we should do this, but there is very little support for each scheme. I told you before. Still, we have to do something. We want to see what steps we can take with the party we will discuss about this. Later on, we may need to look further at the deductions and specific arrangements. Once again, everyone has very different wishes about this. We can look at all kinds of things. Last week, for example, an integration of the Wbso and the RDA was mentioned. Think of self-employed pensions and that sort of thing. However, the great movement is difficult, given what Secretary of State Wiebes has collected from the talks over the last few months. The good news is that on many other points there is support for really far-reaching steps. I find it exciting to see whether enough parties will succeed in the coming period, so that it adds up to workable parliamentary majorities. In that way, we can add to the reduction of the burden that has now been made possible by a change in the tax system which has even greater economic effects in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u249	I thank the Prime Minister for just admitting honestly that the cabinet only wants to talk to parties with established political views. I know that in debates on, for example, a tax review, it is only about public debt and euros. Now the judge's ruling on climate policy this morning has reached the Prime Minister. Does the government recognise that there is also an ecological debt because we burden the earth much more heavily than it can handle, and so we shift an irresponsible bill to future generations? My second question concerns the desire for greening. It certainly exists, but simplification of the tax system is paramount. How difficult is it to practice this greening, to solve a number of pressing problems in the field of nature and the environment and to identify the long-term prospects for sustainable finances? Is it not too easy for the cabinet to hold on to simplification over socially much more valuable goals such as greening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u250	It seems to me that you need to find a good balance in that. We have mentioned some of them on the list that we believe there is support for. We have also said that with parties who want to talk on, we need to look again at whether there are things in this area that do not disturb economic growth too much. This is also an important objective of the tax review. So we mentioned a few. There's perspective in that, but it's not easy. A shift from taxation on labour to taxation on consumption, which is included in many proposals on the list which seems to support the Chamber, naturally also has a greening effect. My first point, by the way, was not that I only want to talk to established parties. Everyone who sits here and is a party is part of the establishment. They are separate from the loose groups. The Party for Animals is a party and is therefore established. It just doesn't seem likely to me that we're going to get very far in this area with the Animal Party. That has nothing to do with whether or not the party is established. I meant to say that we know what the views of all parties are before we sit down with them. We can say very happy that we are going to start from zero, but of course all these parties have established views. We must try to find a mix in the new tax system that takes into account those established views. Then it will be bearable in all those political circles.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u251	The Prime Minister may have thought he was insulting us when he said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u252	I was afraid I wouldn't offend you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u253	It wasn't an insult at all. The cabinet says only to talk to parties that are willing to think within the existing frameworks. That's what it comes down to. That's the cabinet line. This explains why the Party for the Animals was not allowed to count on visits in the second round. That's just a fact. We are indeed not of the established views. My question remains whether the cabinet recognises that we have an ecological debt by burdening the earth more heavily than it can handle. The VVD clearly said she had no idea what I was talking about. On the other hand, the leader of the PvdA is well aware of this. It's a well-known fact. Where's the cabinet? We probably need more time to talk about tackling ecological debt, because the cabinet doesn't want to move yet. Does the government recognise that this ecological debt is there and that we have to take responsibility for it? If so, then we are still debating how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u254	I am never so in favour of the somewhat strict approach in the context of debt and fine. I'm more of the approach where you ask how you're gonna solve something. The cabinet, together with a large majority in the Chamber, is working hard on this by pursuing an ambitious climate policy with ambitious objectives, by concluding an Energy Agreement with very ambitious objectives and also by working in Europe, within the framework of a level playing field, to achieve ambitious global climate agreements. I note, however, that what can be made even more profitable in Europe is, of course, limited at some point. The profits you can make in the Second World and the Third World, for example Indonesia, Vietnam and parts of Africa, are huge. You are also increasingly seeing that our development aid policy focuses on both promoting trade and realising the great climate. I have said it many times: putting out one of the peat fires on Kalimantan does more to counter global warming than putting in a lot of extra soot filters in the Netherlands, although we may have to do so, or both; it is much cheaper. So I think you should find a sensible mix in it. This is also part of the good paternity that you can expect from the government and the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u255	I find that I am not getting an answer to the question. I'm surprised. It is precisely this Prime Minister who is very good at explaining to people the misery of having a high public debt. And I agree with him on his own. I am really disappointed that he does not dare to acknowledge that we are building a debt in terms of our natural capital that is many times higher, a factor of 10 even. The fact that you disagree on the solutions should not give him the excuse not to even acknowledge the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u256	I thought we agreed on those solutions, even with the Animal Party. Maybe she wants to go further, but all these movements I mention here are all directions that the Party can support for the Animals too, even if you are wondering how big the problem is and whether you are starting to warm up or starting from the idea that the fossil fuels are running out or that you want to become less dependent on the suppliers of those fossil fuels. Whatever source of inspiration you have to work on the issue of climate and energy, you see a very broad support for tackling these problems. We are also increasingly seeing the opportunities to make it contribute to our economic growth because it results in a lot of innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u257	I am a little disappointed that the Prime Minister is not actually using his first term to tell us what the cabinet wants. More and more, I see the government thinking: we are raising public debt and celebrating the budgetary rules, we are trying to sell a few billion in relief as good for the economy because the jobs are disappointing. I am very curious whether the Prime Minister is prepared to go further and how he sees the trajectory further. When I look around here, I still see some resentful minorities who want everything, but I don't see a Prime Minister putting a vision on it today and saying: I think I'm going to change packages 2 or 3 or so. I do need to know more about it before we enter the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u258	The last thing I want is that the start of the summer recess would be less good for Mr Pechtold. So I'm going to try, but I'm going to take into account what I started, which is that by all we're discussing here and sketching out what can and can't do, the risk is only increased that eventually the whole process gets stuck. The last few days you've seen little clues. Today, Mr Pechtold and Mr Slob said in the media: we also want to be able to talk about the first package. I've already told you this can be done. So I'm happy to reassure them. Other colleagues in this Chamber, Madam President, have already made some more far-reaching statements over the last few days, which we will leave behind for a moment, but which do not immediately promote the success of the whole process in every way, and I am not looking at anyone in particular. So let us leave it aside for a moment to give the process as much chance as possible. I think you're really gonna have to go back to the probe in a smaller circle. In this respect, I can see that the speed with which public finances are improving is increasing, and so much so that there is room for manoeuvre in relation to the balance path that the coalition had set in motion at the start of this coalition. We are also prepared to use this space to further accelerate economic growth and thus to put it into relief. We would very much like to take advantage of that opportunity. We really need the support of Mr Pechtold and others to see if you can take advantage of that opportunity to do something even greater, not only a reduction in the burden but also tax reforms. We just need more support for that. I would also add that if all the elements mentioned by Secretary of State Wiebes in his letter had been able to rely in advance on a njet from one of the two coalition parties, they would not have been in the letter, but whether they can count on a yes will depend very much on consistency with other measures, with dimensioning and the effects on the way you give it back. You really need to talk to each other about that. In my view, this is also in line with the way Mr Pechtold started his term: cleaning up the tax system, increasing economic growth, ensuring that the tax system does not hinder our economic growth. That's my ambition. I can now go into the details of VAT, the advantages and disadvantages of further phasing out the general tax rebate (AHK) or other fiscal elements in the system, or the marginal pressure, but if I report everything in my head now, I will dramatically reduce the playing field. We're running that risk right now. I was not in favour of this debate. The damage to the fact that we are discussing this in public can be very limited if we leave it at that and then continue talking. Then it might even be useful, because we now know a little more about each other's views. Everything I say about that now makes it difficult to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u259	I think it's a win that the Prime Minister says the coalition stands for the measures of packages 1, 2 and 3. It is therefore also the coalition's wish to see VAT and municipal funds ensure that taxes on wages return. How we fill that out, we still have to see it, but the cabinet stands for it. There is now a bit of an impossible choice for the parties. The CDA said it wants to support the 5 billion, but it doesn't come to talk. The Prime Minister says very clearly that the CDA has no influence on how the 5 billion has been put together and what happens to it. That's what he just said. Parties that do come to talk can talk about package 1. They must therefore take the unpopular items in packages 2 and 3 for their hood. Then there's a good chance that the CDA wouldn't have realized that and then run away again. Here I ask for a bit of helmsman's art from the Prime Minister. Does he now also say clearly to a party like the CDA that there should be signed at the cross of package 1? The CDA has announced: we will. Those parties who take the difficult measures must not be allowed to interfere with the CDA's virtual seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u260	I would like to torment the virtual seats, but on the assumption that there have been no elections in the meantime, this is the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u261	Now let's get serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u262	I responded to your suggestion. We know that the CDA has 12 seats in the First Chamber. Those measures in Mr Wiebes' list are not all coalition wishes. I said the opposite. If we knew that this type of action would lead to a njet for the coalition in advance, they would not be on the list. That's different. The basis of support depends on the coherence, dimensioning and the way in which you arrange the return. This is true not only for the Labour Party and the VVD, but also for my belief in D66, GroenLinks, the Christian Union and the SGP. Then I'll come to the further trial. I would suggest that we draw up the agenda and try to have a discussion with the six parties as soon as possible. Then we can see, looking through the hairs of our eyes at this debate, whether there is enough music in that process or not. That will depend heavily on the attitude people come to the table with. We have heard Mr Van Haersma Buma on the support of the twelve seats of the First Chamber. So we know what bandwidth we need to operate within and what we need to do if we want to have those seats. If we think we don't need those seats, we don't, but if we want them there, we know what the bandwidth is. Mr Van Haersma Buma was crystal clear in his first term. He doesn't join the rest of the list, but he says he can be more or less for the first package. We know that now, and I think we should consider it when we sit at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u263	The cabinet says it's made a round around the parties. However, it then gave two haircuts, with which it made three packages. Now the cabinet says: we stand for the total, but we don't really know how to get out; we wait for what the parties are going to do. No, I want to know about the cabinet. I want to know from the Cabinet what it intends to do in the next few days. How is it going to ensure that parties are willing to do the difficult things as well? These parties should not only say 'well, cabinet, that relief package is nice, because then we can celebrate; then we also take responsibility for all things of the past years', but they also have to do the difficult things. I suppose that's part of it. However, I think that these other parties do not need to interfere if the cabinet does not yet know what it wants and if it makes itself dependent on those who run away from package 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u264	The cabinet knows exactly what it wants. It is prepared to look at all the measures mentioned and go beyond package 1. They can't count on a no from the cabinet in advance. The search with the six parties is aimed at achieving a mix of measures. Maybe we'll come up with a few more things that can count on support, from GroenLinks to the VVD. We need to see if we can do that. I really don't know. Maybe we can't, but I think we should try and make a serious effort in the interests of the Netherlands. We do that by talking to each other, not by making all kinds of cabinet proposals. We really need to sit down at the table and discuss things with each other: come on, how are we going to do this? I quote Mr Pechtold: do a bit, come on, get to work, work. We really need to talk one, two or maybe three nights so we can find out in a short time if there's music in it. Is this gonna fly or are the differences of opinion so big that it's not gonna work? In the latter case, you should be able to break up as good friends, instead of souring the proportions by continuing to talk. I don't believe in that either. Whether or not the CDA is in on it? I didn't think of it, but Mr. Buma has determined his position. It's up to us in a moment to tell him if we'd like him to join us. We have four plus two parties, the C4 plus the Labour Party and the VVD, who must say whether we want Mr Buma to join us in the First Chamber, at least his party. We all need to discuss that with each other. But at least we know what bandwidth he's using. We are not saying that we are going to stick to that in advance, but Mr Buma is at least clear and you can appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u265	Mr Buma, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u266	All I can say is they're going to Citroen to C6. Oh, no, there's a C7 and a C8. So it's gonna end sometime.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u267	I belong to the VVD C7 and to the SP C1.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u268	At least I see bigger and bigger cars driving around. The Prime Minister beats many in sharpness on this day. However, I wonder whether the vision and the result of a tax plan is really working. Mr Pechtold gradually realized what is happening here: the Prime Minister wants a tax reform, but he does not say what he wants; Mr Pechtold can do that. When Mr Pechtold says: we're going to raise taxes, the Prime Minister says: it's that it was you, but I've got my tax review in place. Of course, this isn't gonna work out at all. It's not going to be C5 or C4, but one cabinet ends up doing nothing. Then you better just say what you want in a public debate. That's all the CDA does here. The CDA is not going to be the C5.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u269	No, that's really not true. I know exactly what I want. However, I have always indicated that I am not going to say that in public. If I say in public what I would like to say, and the coalition, the cabinet and all the group chairmen who will talk about this right away, say what they want, someone else will run to the interrupting microphone to say: oh, if you want me to, I'm gone! That is why you should not say that here; that can only be done in a confidential conversation. Then one can say: if you want it, it is very complicated for my party. How could this be easy for my party? I've already thought about it: could this and that be possible? That's how these conversations go. You have to see if you can get within a bandwidth at some point that just keeps all the parties on board, or that you can't. If that doesn't work, we're as good friends as we are, but at least we made that effort. I would really like to try that. So I know exactly what I want, but I have said from the outset, both in the media and here in the Chamber, that it doesn't work if I tell it in public. After all, I know exactly what happens: everyone either loves it or they distance themselves from it, and then they never add up to 38 seats in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u270	Apparently the cabinet has very little fiducie in its own plans. If you have a fiduciary in your plans, you expect to be able to get a majority for that. I think Mr Pechtold had just the $60,000 interruption, if there are programmes in which it exists. He asked the Prime Minister: what do you want now? Then the Prime Minister said, "I'm not gonna say that, you're gonna say that." That's gonna be a lot of fun behind the scenes. But one thing is certain: the Netherlands is not going to be any better. The Netherlands wants to know what the cabinet wants. The cabinet has written a letter which it does not dare to say is its own position, because then the negotiations could go wrong again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u271	I'd like to contradict this, in all friendship, anyway. I am not saying to Mr Pechtold that he has to say what he wants. When we sit at the table, we all say what we want and you talk about it. That's how these conversations go. I'm just saying it's gonna get stuck when I tell it here. Anyway, when it comes to doing everything in public, the CDA has traditionally had a huge track record. So I'm gonna think about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u272	We are already taking another step in parliamentary history and in how a cabinet that does not have a majority in both Chambers works together. I find that surprising. If I have understood the Prime Minister correctly, and I am pleased with that, he says: in fact, the opposition must seek a majority in the coalition. Come up with your plans, tell me what you want, and we'll see if there's a majority for that. It is not the Prime Minister's view, I am not going to ask for it, he thinks it belongs to the pink elephant in the House of Representatives, but the question I do have is to what extent there really is openness and an opportunity to talk about greening taxes. College Old Man was talking about that, too. When I see the frameworks that are now laid down in the letter and the requirements it all has to meet and what's going to fall off the list, you're very quick to say greening. What room does the Prime Minister see there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u273	I'd like to go into the first one first. Mr Klaver then fell into Mr Buma's frame. I just said that everyone at the table should say what they want. Only it doesn't make sense to say that here, because then it gets stuck. So I am not asking the opposition parties to say what they want; we will have to do all six, including the cabinet. With regard to Mr Klaver's second question, my reaction would be that the letter also responds to that. The letter outlines a number of possibilities for greening and also says that this is a complicated subject. The slide to consumption is, of course, always a greening measure to a large extent, no matter how precise it is. We are open, as is stated in the letter, to further suggestions. That's exactly what we're gonna talk about. Then let's see if those are suggestions that fit within the range of the parties sitting at the table or that we say that it becomes too complicated. We'll have to see about that. Mr Zijlstra and others have said something about this, but nobody has rejected it in advance. We really need to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u274	When I hear the Prime Minister say that economic growth is actually the main objective that we have in mind, I say that reducing CO emissions is extremely important. We need to save more energy. The tax system is an important step towards achieving these goals. That is not necessary, but it can also be at the expense of economic growth. So then you also come to talk about these objectives again. Is there room in the head of this Prime Minister, but also in the head of this coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u275	Yes. I have always said to Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij that they also have a number of objectives: let us talk about them, you know what the coalition thinks is important when it comes to the objectives, let us just have those talks. Maybe we'll come up with something smart with each other so that you can come up with what Mr Klaver wants and which at the same time contributes to that economic growth. It doesn't always have to be GroenLinks. Then we are done, at least, the cabinet is finished talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u276	The cabinet is finished for this period, with which the first term of office of the government has come to an end. I suggest that we proceed straight to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u277	Mr President, it is a plan that has to stand for many decades, so I would just as much like to suspend at least five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u278	I don't think that's a problem. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u279	I shall look again at Mr Roemer, just to be sure, but he does not want the floor. I give the floor to Mr Buma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u280	I would almost say that I am speaking on behalf of Mr Roemer, but that does not seem to me to make much sense on this subject. Mr. Chairman. The CDA indicated in the first term, on the basis of the letter sent by the Cabinet, which is the benchmarks for the CDA when the Cabinet will draw up the letter and come forward with a final proposal. I have also indicated that the CDA will examine these proposals with an open mind. I would like to inform the Cabinet that the CDA is aware of the position of small and medium-sized enterprises and of the position of the elderly, in addition to what the Cabinet itself has already indicated, the significant reduction in the burden on middle income. The CDA does not see the VAT increase as a meaningful reform, especially after this debate. An increase will ultimately result in too few jobs and will be more economically disruptive than economically reinforcing. After this afternoon, it seems that the only VAT increase that is really acceptable to those who will soon be locked up behind the doors is the meat tax. The CDA doesn't see much of that. I'm giving a warning on behalf of the CDA. We've talked about greening before. If the Chamber opts for an increase in the energy tax for larger consumers, I would remind it that it was not so long ago that this Chamber made every effort to save ALDEL in Delfzijl. This is typically a company that is the first victim of a further increase in an energy tax for large consumers. How long can you stay consistent? On behalf of the CDA, I give the advice to those who are going to hide behind the doors: think about those workers as well. I'll tell the Cabinet these are the keys to the CDA. After what I heard from the Prime Minister about the trial, I say to the C4: scratch behind the ears once more before sitting behind this door. Finally, I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the increase in VAT has a distorting effect on the economy rather than a positive effect;]] [[Whereas transferring sectors from low to high VAT rates is not a good choice;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from increasing VAT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u281	The motion was signed by myself, by the way. I say this in case you fear that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u282	I assumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u283	It is nice that Mr Van Haersma Buma wanted to sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u284	I went around myself for a while and I finally agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u285	That's a lot of hope. I have a question about being against the VAT increase. According to Mr Van Haersma Buma, should there not be any increase in VAT at all? Is that the thrust of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u286	I saw how the debate went this afternoon. A VAT increase brings little economic benefits and little benefits in terms of jobs. Actually, there's no advantage other than a shift. Moreover, there is no question of the environmental benefits that we may have thought about in the past. Think about the bikemaker and others. Considering all this, I notice that you can talk very neatly about an increase in VAT in abstracto, but also that there will probably be no increase in VAT by the end of the day. That's what the CDA would think. That's why I tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u287	That's clear. We are also critical of the increase in VAT, but we do see opportunities for taxing environmental pollution. The tax on that may be higher, but I see that the CDA does not leave any nuance in this motion on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u288	That is a valid point. As far as environmental taxation is concerned, the only proposal mentioned is an increase in the levy on meat. I think that's bullshit. Besides, it's impossible. I do not see any other increase in VAT that is actually beneficial to the environment. That's why the CDA filed this motion. We also recommend GroenLinks, with emphasis, to support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u289	Mrs Ouwehand also has a question on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u290	I just wanted to remind you a little bit. Did I hear correctly that Mr Buma said: I find an increase in VAT on meat impossible and I do not like it, but it is the only proposal for an increase in VAT that would be good for the environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u291	This must have been an incredible slip of the tongue from me. It is good that Mrs Ouwehand points that out to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u292	Too bad, too bad, too bad! But think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u293	In any case, it is nice that Mrs Ouwehand listened so carefully when I tabled the motion. I would like to see her vote in favour of this motion. I also have a motion on the position of the elderly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the 2015 Tax Plan decided to reduce both the elderly discount and the tax discount in box 3 for pensioners with a small pension by 2016;]] [[Whereas, in recent years, also older people have lost purchasing power in the face of the crisis and pensioners should benefit from a reduction in the burden in addition to the workforce;]] [[calls on the Government, when drawing up the 2016 Tax Plan, to reverse the planned reduction of the elderly discount and the planned abolition of the tax rebate for elderly people with a small pension,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Haersma Buma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u294	There was one more question that came to my mind after Mr Buma's clear language. The CDA's election programme states that the CDA wants to shift from taxing labour to taxing consumption. Mr Buma is clear: no VAT. Can he, however, share with us how he wants to do this shift?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u295	Yes. I can tell you how that happened. It is about a shift that has been there in the past and half of which has been implemented. We're still hesitant, all of us, about how that worked out. The increase in VAT to 21% would be accompanied by a proportional reduction in income tax. That was then seen as a greening. However, the question is whether the greening effects have been achieved. In retrospect, we see that it has been bad for many sectors. In addition to this, I am looking at this cabinet, which has never continued to reduce labour costs. At that time, however, this was the image. That was also in the election program. However, if I see now, a few years later, what the precise effects are, it is very doubtful whether you should do this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u296	That last statement is clear. Just for the facts: the movement to which Mr Buma refers was in the basic path. The CDA election programme was based on what was agreed in the spring agreement. The CDA had agreed to increase VAT. When elections were held, Mr Buma said that the CDA wanted a shift from labour to consumption on top of that. So I understand Mr Buma's answer, but he does not take the situation as it was. So can he make another attempt to indicate, within the given as it was then, how he wants to make that slide? Or is it true that I taste that a little bit in his words, too, that it was just a mistake that they wrote that down at the time? That's also a fair deal: it could match all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u297	Of course, the latter is not correct, because a conference of the CDA looks a bit like the Pope: they can't be mistaken either. That's what I'd like to say first. But the election program indicated that. However, Mr Zijlstra must not forget that the real transfer of funds is involved. What exactly has been completed on the basis of that electoral programme is its implementation. What was then written down as greening is indeed meant as the 21% versus the relief of labor. There was no increase in VAT or anything like that. I see that Mr Zijlstra would like to interrupt one more time, but that is the reality of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u298	Then the conclusion is that the pass-through reflects something different from the CDA election programme. So the CDA tells things in the election program, which then doesn't make sense in the pass-through. That's a clear picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u299	No, that greening was definitely there. Again, that greening was from 19% to 21%, plus the promised employment discount. And it never came. It was meant to be a greening. It was in the election program and it's been calculated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u300	Thank you for your contribution. Mr Wilders waives his second term. I give the floor to Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u301	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply in the first term. We felt it was important that there should be a headline letter so that we also had clarity in general about what the cabinet and the coalition parties were thinking about when we revised our tax system. Such a review takes place once every 10 or 15 years. As a Christian Union, we think it is important to discuss this and try to give our ideals a place in it. This debate was also important to us. In advance it was not clear to us whether there was room for parties other than the coalition parties to fully comment on all the issues raised in the main letter, including the 5 billion in burden relief that has already been submitted to us with a reply. However, I have understood the Prime Minister and the group chairmen of the coalition parties in such a way that, as far as they are concerned, there are no no-goareas in my own words and in the bad Dutch version. There is therefore plenty of room for a different interpretation of the 5 billion and for additional targets in relation to the main objectives of the cabinet and the coalition, namely the simplification and creation of additional jobs. As far as we are concerned, greening, attention to the non-working people in the Netherlands and the fairer taxation of assets should also be included. When that space is created, there is also room for us to make an attempt, with others who want to enter into these conversations, to see if we can get into it. Is that gonna work? In any case, from our ideals, we will stand to the maximum for those ideals and for those groups that we believe should be given a place in that review. Let us enter into talks and let us not allow it to last longer than is necessary. I think we can fairly quickly taste each other's kidneys and determine whether we really see a perspective to come to a final picture. We will not stand by and speak along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u302	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for the clear choice. For example, it is clear to the people at home that there is nothing to expect from this cabinet when it comes to package 1. I'm gonna use my time to try to read out as many motions as possible. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the net reduction of EUR 5 billion, according to the government's main letter, leads to a positive purchasing power effect of between 1.5% and 3% for workers;]] [[Whereas the letter does not provide a clear picture of the purchasing power effects for people who are unable to work and who have worked;]] [[Whereas, without a complete purchasing power picture, careful judgment of the cabinet plans is not possible;]] [[calls on the Government to have the purchasing power effects for all population groups reflected by the CPB and Nibud, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the next debate on the tax review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to increase the reduced VAT rate of 6%, with the exception of foodstuffs, to 21%;]] [[Whereas this upward "harmonisation" of the VAT rate will certainly lead to a loss of business turnover in the short term and thus to a loss of employment;]] [[Whereas consumption expenditure which has recently been increasing should be encouraged;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the economic and employment effects of a 21% VAT rate reduction to 19% and to report to the Court before Princess Day,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the net reduction of EUR 5 billion envisaged by the Cabinet leads to a positive purchasing power effect of 1.5% to 3% for 8 million workers;]] [[Whereas this reduction is specifically aimed at workers, and hardly or not at those who have worked;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment,]] [[calls on the Government to provide further measures to benefit the 3 million pensioners,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-17]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-18]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u303	My final motion is very brief. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the net reduction of EUR 5 billion, according to the government's main letter, leads to a positive purchasing power effect of between 1.5% and 3% for workers;]] [[Whereas such net relief does not or hardly benefit pensioners;]] [[calls on the Government not to reduce the elderly's allowance and to abolish the elderly's allowance in 2016 in order to compensate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u304	This last motion is very similar to that of the CDA, but has a little less containment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u305	Mr. Chairman. I thank the leadership for the answer. If you expected this debate to clarify what the taxes will look like next year, it is disappointing. That clarity is not necessary. That was not the expectation of this debate either. If you want at least enough room for further discussion, then I am positive about the outcome of this debate. I have listened carefully and I have heard that there have been no obstacles on the part of the cabinet and the coalition parties to the issues that can be discussed. The SGP has made it very clear that it is very important that we take account of the position of single-earning families and of unpaid work in relation to paid employment. In short, to do justice to the participatory society. Whether it will be possible to discuss this with different parties, we will have to wait and see. Because there have been no vetos and because there is now at least a basic package that provides the basis for further discussion, the SGP is ready to discuss this further. There's always been a remark: does it have to be in the back rooms? Publicity is a right starting point and is paramount, but parliamentary history teaches that it is sometimes necessary to speak about something confidentially, because we simply do not come out in the context of a few debates. This is something we sometimes already have with a small amendment to a small legislative proposal, let alone a larger whole as a tax review. I am pleased that it is no longer time for a few coalition parties to settle everything, for there to be no further discussion about it and for us to see what it will be, but for us to have an opportunity to look at those parties who want to be constructive about whether there is a willingness to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u306	Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party is against a budget deficit and therefore stresses that we need to see it comprehensively and clearly. When it comes to our natural capital, in August we always make up what was meant for the whole year. So every year we build up an ecological debt of about 30%. This does not include a possible 3% budget deficit. As far as we are concerned, this has to be taken into account in a change in the tax system, but the cabinet had no interest in that. I shall table a number of motions to see how far we can get. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the court in The Hague today condemned the Dutch State because the current climate policy is too weak;]] [[Whereas a greening of the tax system, which will increase the cost of greenhouse gas emissions, can contribute significantly to a climate policy consistent with international agreements;]] [[noting that a greening of the tax system offers opportunities for reducing the tax burden on labour, thereby increasing employment;]] [[points out that a revision without a greening of the tax system is not an option,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u307	How do you do that? The CDA was right: increasing VAT on meat is the environmental measure. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to include the raising of VAT on meat in the review of the tax system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u308	How do you not do that? By increasing VAT on non-polluting services. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to include increasing VAT on services and culture in the review of the tax system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u309	Mr. Chairman. Today we have heard again that the VVD is fighting for the cumbersome surcharge system and that it is turning against a flat tax, at real low taxes. This time the former liberals claimed that that would affect the elderly and tenants. Apparently, reading isn't the strongest side of the VVD group. In passing on our plans, tax and non-tax, you can read that tenants are spared and older people can look forward to a higher AOW. Moreover, what has affected these groups is the left-wing tax-enhancing policy of this VVD/PvdA cabinet: the increased rental tax, which led to higher rents, the increase in VAT and the increase in excise duties. I would remind you once again of our calculated alternative with a flat tax of 23%, because the Netherlands needs really low taxes, more economic freedom and therefore less VVD policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u310	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions. What struck me most was that it had actually become clear: last autumn we talked about a major reform of the system. And when I hear the Prime Minister speak now, he actually says: there will be relief anyway, because we have money left over now, and I hope that we will also be able to come up with a system review with each other. I hope the latter is particularly important, because I think it is important. We wanted to use this debate to see what room is left in the cabinet. At least I've tasted that space. It was sometimes with some hanging and strangling, but I haven't heard that it's not possible to talk about what we can do for people with benefits, the non-workers. I have also heard that it is possible to look at far-reaching greening, even if it should be at the expense of economic growth. In short, I think that we still have a very long way to go in order to achieve a real reform of the system. I see that we are still far from each other, but we are happy to see how we can find each other. I think it is extremely important that we finally review the tax system and work towards tackling climate change, increasing the burden on multinationals and combating tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u311	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the House of Representatives there is a very broad desire to simplify tax legislation;]] [[Whereas, by letter to the House of Representatives, the Government made known its plans for a tax reform in three possible steps;]] [[Whereas these plans do not result in any substantial structural simplification of the Dutch tax system;]] [[calls on the government, in the 2016 Tax Plan, to come forward with further proposals that can really contribute to tax simplification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Vliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u312	I note that Mr Kuzu is abandoning his second term. I call Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u313	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is actually putting down two chess boards today. On one hand, you can participate if you want to reduce 5 billion burdens with them, but are afraid to reform. On the second chessboard you also have to help reform, and you can talk about the implementation of the 5 billion and the purchasing power. Eventually things go a bit wrong, because then those signs come together and I think we have a little too many pawns, kings and queens. If we end up on chessboard one, the cabinet will take a gamble. The bet is that enough parties will not want reform, but only a reduction in the burden and move the problem to a next cabinet. D66 has been clear from the beginning. Not only do we want to reduce, we also want to simplify, green up and ensure that jobs are created. I quote the Secretary of State once again: 'A system review without reduction of charges is not feasible, but a reduction of charges without a corresponding system revision is a missed opportunity'. This means that D66 will consider the situation in which the cabinet actually asks the Chamber to rule. We will not now be tabling any motions or supporting any motions, because I feel that there are enough marksmen's pits in this Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u314	This is a cliff hanger. If a cabinet is going to consider itself, then it's very wrong. I wonder what Mr Pechtold means by "recouped."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u315	That's thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u316	Does Mr Pechtold want a cliffhanger or does he want to indicate exactly what the point he wants to think about and whether that means that he might not go into the invitation'something must happen'? It's good to get that straight now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u317	I'm sitting here today with one fellow group member. I am in the fortunate situation that there are 10 other group members. I would like to talk to them about the situation, whether it is interesting to talk only about reducing taxes if there is no real tax reform or is extremely difficult. I had already considered that, but today's debate has contributed to that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u318	Then I can only conclude that it is remarkable that after a long debate criticizing the position of the CDA not to negotiate, now at the end of this debate also with the C4, in this case with Mr Pechtold, the hesitation strikes. Mr Pechtold knows what I recommend.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u319	From my mouth, there was no criticism of the CDA for the position not to negotiate. Mr Buma did not hear me say that. However, I note that for package one there is a C, namely the CDA, which wants to sign on the cross without affecting the package. Others could throw themselves into the food chain if they show a little more ambition to create jobs and jobs. Then the CDA's gonna be tough again. But I'm giving Mr. Buma all the space to talk or not talk. And what D66 is going to do, I'm going to discuss it in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u320	Mr Zijlstra does not need a second term. Mr Samsom does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u321	Mr. Chairman. More work, more income, more justice: that is the guiding principle that the Labour Party started this whole exercise some time ago. It is also the guiding principle with which we have conducted this debate. Fortunately, it is also the guidance we see in the cabinet letter: more work, more income, more justice. This debate was about two things that are going on at the same time. First of all, there is the content. I am hopeful about this, because I have not heard the cabinet speak taboos and have seen it everywhere open up to opposition parties who want to participate in good ideas. But there was, in the second place, something like the process and the form. Mr. Pechtold used a metaphor. I see a similar one for me: that scene of two men who always want to let each other go first at the door, with "no, you first," "no, you first," "no, you first," "no, you first," and then things can go wrong at some point. This was most apparent in the interrupting debates between Mr Pechtold and the Prime Minister, where Mr Pechtold said to the Prime Minister "no, you first with that reform package" and the Prime Minister said more or less the opposite. I understand all the complicated stuff around that very well. It's all political and it's all vulnerable. I am happy to know the Prime Minister as someone who is useful in his courteousness and who, at some point, really does prevent us from colliding, and I know Mr Pechtold as someone who has the courage to continue. So I am also convinced that with the right content and with plenty of parties who have enough courage and ambition, in the coming weeks we can see how far we can come with a package that gives the Netherlands more income, more work and more justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u322	I'm going to go through that metaphor of those two gentlemen at the door. I feel that at least I, but also a large part of the Chamber, have been waiting at the door for a year. It's getting through that door quite a bit now. Now the cabinet has come to gloat. It puts down a package and wants a push through that door. It's the Cabinet that rules and it's the Chamber that controls. Of course, over the last few years, these roles have grown a little bit, which has led to a lot of transparency, influence and varying compositions, but I would like to ask Mr Samsom the basic question: it is the cabinet that has to come up with clear plans, it is the cabinet that will have to decide whether it is just for burden relief or for real tax reform, it is the cabinet that has to take charge of this, it is the cabinet that has to look immediately at whether it has a majority in both Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u323	Oh, yeah. It is also the cabinet that has come up with a letter to make proposals and to invite other parties to do so. Again, the scene at the door could take a long time. Maybe it takes some kind of quantum leap and then everybody's out there with the right plan. In the future, we need to see who went through the door first. I know most of the participants in this pas de deux well enough to know that we will eventually succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u324	I have a brief question for Mr Samsom. That question is actually inspired by what is on his website. There is a very nice picture with the text "smallest incomes, biggest growth." Is Mr Samsom prepared to say, for the sake of fairness, that this only applies to those with work? If you're talking about the smallest income, you're talking about people in welfare who don't have a job. These people do not have to deal with growth; they remain at zero. Why don't we just say that honestly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u325	If they stay at zero, we'll see. But indeed, that picture is about workers. I don't think there's any misunderstanding about that either. You must be very careful with pictures on websites. Mr Zijlstra has also had half an hour to respond to any interruptions. Now it's my turn. That picture is just about workers. Small-income workers are most helped with these tax plans. If your income increases as a working person, you'll still be helped with these tax plans, but to a lesser extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u326	That's true. At least that's a little more honest. Why don't you just put that in there? However, I am disappointed by the Labour Party that it overlooks the people with the lowest income when there is room in the budget for improvements and that it does not allow those people to benefit from them. I can't stand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u327	This 5 billion package contains about a quarter of purchasing power gains for the elderly. When Mr Roemer was allowed to play with 200 billion in his election programme, the elderly were doing exactly a quarter of the job and the workers were doing much more. If Mr Roemer wants to take a measure on the distribution of purchasing power between workers and the elderly, then he really must come up with better figures and be better prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u328	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I am satisfied with the tabling of a motion. Like a number of others, I do not expect an invitation to speak behind closed doors. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, when further developing the review of the tax system, to consider the extent to which a limited increase in the low rate as an alternative to (partly) raising the rates on activities and products from the low rate of VAT to the high rate of VAT can also lead to a higher yield that will be used for measures to promote employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Houwers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32140-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u329	Mr. Chairman. Let me come back to Mr Pechtold's contribution. What I've always been afraid of is gonna happen. If you're gonna do this in public, you're gonna run the risk of tearing up. So I sincerely hope that D66 will decide to continue talking. This is not a pas de deux or the question of who is going through the front door first. The cabinet has views. We'll put it there, too. The coalition parties, the C4, have views. We're gonna talk about it. So it is not the case that we say at the table 'Well, say it' or that those parties say it. We're gonna have a conversation. In the interest of the Netherlands, we are trying to see if we can use the space available to reduce the burden to implement a broader tax reform that can count on support in this Chamber and on the other side. That's what we have to try. Let us not make things too complicated either. We're not inventing an atomic missile. We are trying to reform the tax system so that it leads to more jobs. So I really appeal to all the parties that have so far been willing to talk, to continue to do so after this debate. If that doesn't happen, it's a damn shame. Then we're gonna drop an opportunity. I don't know if it's gonna work either. As I said earlier, it may well be that after one or two talks we say that the differences are too great, but at least we have made a serious effort to do so. At the moment, I see too many possibilities not to engage in that conversation. It would be a shame not to. That's about Jansen and Janssen, that's from Tintin, or about Neighbor and Neighbor and the crashing plane, but I think this is better. No, not Buma and Buma, but Neighbor and Neighbor. I'm coming to the motions now. For all motions, they're premature. In this debate, I am trying to prevent us from getting ahead of ourselves. I'll be right there. The motion in part No. 15 by Mr Van Haersma Buma is pre-empting the debate and I must therefore advise against it. He can also hold the motion, but if he doesn't, I'll dissuade her. Also the motion in part No. 16 anticipates the comprehensive consideration to be made in the millions note, of course in the context of the debate on the tax system. This also applies to the motion in part No. 17, because the final settlement will of course not come until the plan is finished. It doesn't make much sense to calculate all kinds of parts now as a kind of scientific agency. We shall have these calculations made as soon as we know what proposals are in place. The same applies to the motion in part No. 18 which I must also advise against for that reason. The motion in part No. 19 is also premature. I believe that the results should first be awaited, after which the integrated picture will be available in August. The motion in part No. 20, including Mr Krol, anticipates the debate, the comprehensive balance sheet and the millions note. That is why I advise her, but Mr Krol can also arrest her. If you didn't arrest him, it wouldn't be advisable. The same applies to the motion in part No. 21 on the greening of the tax system et cetera. We will really have to wait and see. We are open to suggestions; that is what we wrote in the letter. This also applies to the motion in part No. 22 and 23. The motion in part No. 24 by Mr Van Vliet is support for policy and therefore, if I am very strict, is actually superfluous. In any case, it supports policies and...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u330	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u331	When I'm tough, I say no need. I always say that motions that support policies are superfluous. If the motion is not adopted, it will at least save a lot of copying costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u332	You're gonna have to pass judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u333	I say that the motion is superfluous because it supports the policy. That is a judgment: the motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u334	Mrs Ouwehand has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u335	The Prime Minister rejects all proposals for concrete implementation. However, I have also tabled a motion which determines the position, namely the motion in part No. 21, and he turned it down. It states that a review without a greening of the tax system is not an option. This seems to me to be a starting point. The Prime Minister says he's open to suggestions. With this motion we are asking whether we are fundamentally opting for greening or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u336	No, I am also open to the suggestion of a party saying that it does not want to green up. Then I should not reject that either, because I must be consistent. So that motion is also moving forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u337	So that sketch, which we are going to green, can also just disappear from the table. This can only be a gift to the voters of the VVD, the CDA and the Labour Party, and we do not want the greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u338	The point is that I now argue that it is unwise to impose limits somewhere. Suppose Mr Klaver comes forward and says: I have given it some thought and I am actually against greening. If I did not advise against this motion, I have already put the debate on the table in advance and I am sending GroenLinks off the table. I don't want to, and that's why I advise against the motion; she's premature. In response to the motion in part No. 25 I note that the probe has shown that there is no support for increasing the low rate. That's why this isn't on the list. Mr. Van Vliet!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u339	So you're dissuading the motion in part No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u340	The Prime Minister gave me the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u341	It's been common around here for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u342	Only when I'm standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u343	Oh, that's it. Then I missed something. The Prime Minister says my motion is policy support, but I do not see that far-reaching simplification in a dejuring of a few documents. I call on colleagues to vote in favour of my motion in particular, because I believe that the Prime Minister's comments are superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u344	That's obvious. I was thinking of promoting greening by avoiding unnecessary copying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-24-tweedekamer-5.u345	I propose that we vote, not on these motions, because we will not vote on these motions until next Tuesday, but on the motions tabled yesterday during the debate on the European summit. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
