ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the driving force behind the economy, which is what politicians call from left to right. Today, as politicians, we can live up to those words. Today, we are debating the threat of the use of scanning, an invitation to tender that could lead to specialist SMEs being deliberately forced out of the market by the public authorities, which would become even bigger. The plans could lead to the tax administration's employees performing these scanning tasks. Don't they have anything better to do at the IRS? I would like to hear from the Minister whether other options have been considered as part of the relocation of staff. The VVD has always fought for the interests of SMEs and its staff. My group has done everything in its power to reverse this tendering process and to issue an orderly tender. The Minister indicated that the implementation of the motion would delay the digitisation of the National Archives and that implementation would entail a lot of additional costs. Can the Minister indicate how much delay and how much cost it would be? The VVD finds it very disappointing that the Minister has rejected the motion on this subject. According to the Minister, governments are free to decide whether activities for the benefit of their own public organisation are outsourced to third parties or carried out under their own management. If this were true, why does the Minister reject a request from the House of Representatives to reverse the tendering plans? A large majority of 101 votes supported the motion. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. The Procurement Act allows entrepreneurs to participate in public procurement. This is a major asset in which we have appointed the Commission of Procurement Experts as a guarantee for tenderers in order to prevent legal proceedings. That is a committee with teeth, because according to the words of the then Minister of EZ, it would be very strange for the government to ignore a statement from this committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u3	As a member of this Chamber, I am of course very much in favour of motions being carried out. It is true, however, that if a motion affects standing policy that the cabinet implements, if that motion does not fit in with policy or if the cabinet considers that the policy is formulated differently, then the cabinet can ultimately ignore such a motion. I would remind Mr Ziengs that it was his VVD Minister Gerrit Zalm who laughed at a motion from the Chamber. It's not that unusual.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u4	It is particularly remarkable that Mr Vos says that it is apparently a matter of standing policy. As I have just said and will specify, we have not passed the Procurement Act for nothing. It says that we want to give entrepreneurs the opportunity to participate in public procurement. If this is a public contract, then I will return to my explanation of vote, then this should simply be outsourced. That's the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u5	The State can do things on its own or outsource them. Mr Ziengs knows that too, and this has been mentioned extensively in the Minister's documents. It is not necessarily the case that, as Mr Ziengs suggests, everything in the market is doing better than the government can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u6	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u7	Does Mr Zieng agree with me that it would be better if the mail would just be delivered on Monday, as was the case when the mail was still a state-owned company?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u8	I do not understand what the answer to the question of whether the mail should be delivered on Mondays or on Fridays is. We are having a debate here about scanning, about entrepreneurs who do not get a fair chance to participate in a tender. That's the subject we're talking about. I am happy to answer questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u9	We supported the motion of the VVD. We are very curious to see what the Minister's response to the VVD will be satisfied with today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u10	We want entrepreneurs to have a fair opportunity to participate in a tender. My commitment to the Minister would be to withdraw the tender and to issue a tender, as we asked for in the motion at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u11	What happens if she doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u12	I can hardly imagine that the Minister will not be persuaded by the arguments that I am going to put forward to get her to abandon the tendering process, not even in view of the debate we are about to have. We shall try to achieve this by means of a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u13	That motion's already there. That motion has been adopted and it is substantive in nature. D66 also supported her. What would then be the text of Mr Ziengs' second motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u14	We generally put texts on the table in the second term. I will do the same, depending on the Minister's response. To anticipate that now seems a bit premature to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u15	Okay, then we'll wait and see. I think it is important to hear the following from Mr Ziengs. We can now talk about this situation for a very long time, in which I fully support Mr Zieng's content. If the Minister later says that it costs a lot of money, will Mr Ziengs go on with this matter and correcting it, or does Mr Ziengs also think it is important to take better care of it in the future? There is, of course, a much greater task. It should not be the case that all kinds of ministries continue to do it wrong, as has now been done by the Ministry of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u16	It seems clear to me that, with this debate, we want to set the tone for future calls for tender, particularly with regard to the digitization of the National Archives. We expect that, after this debate, we will simply be able to put back the further tranches of the digitization of the National Archives that are still on the way into a tender, at least that would be the aim.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u18	The Commission of Procurement Experts has examined the scan case and considered that there is an obligation to tender for the scanning tasks and that there can be no tendering at all. How can the Minister of Education reject such an opinion? A recent study by Utrecht University supports the statement that there is a tendering obligation for this work. How does the Minister view the findings of Utrecht University? Does the Minister intend to make this part of her future policy? Through this process, confidence in the policies of the affected entrepreneurs has fallen sharply and wrongly. Nothing is being done about the wishes of a majority in the Chamber and the opinion of the Commission of Procurement Experts. From this point on, I would like to stress once again that it was also the entrepreneurs who helped the Netherlands through this crisis. What can the Minister do to restore the confidence of these entrepreneurs in the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u20	I would prefer Mr Ziegs to finish his speech first. Then you may ask a question, Mr Vos. Please continue, Mr Ziengs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u21	Entrepreneurs always look for solutions. That's how it's gonna be now. The economic operators concerned have indicated that they are prepared to take over the purchased scanning equipment in an invitation to tender where there is certainty of obtaining digitalisation contracts. Is this an offer by which the Minister is prepared to reverse the invitation to tender immediately and to issue a tender as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u22	Does Mr Ziegs agree with me that he is making a caricature of the concept of entrepreneur? Entrepreneurs, Mr Ziegs, are not always looking for solutions. Entrepreneurs are mostly looking for money. There is nothing wrong with that, but if we, as a Chamber for the cart of a specific group of entrepreneurs who benefit from a specific tender, I wonder if we are on the right track. What do you think of that, Mr Ziengs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u23	I think that is a very curious reasoning. I often hear that on the left too there is talk in the Chamber about the role of SMEs, about the role of the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur who creates jobs, the entrepreneur who takes risks. And then Mr Vos says that an entrepreneur is only looking for money! That's a lot wider. I find it too ludicrous to go into the substance of the matter. It is clear: entrepreneurs take their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u24	Your last interruption, Mr. Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u25	I note that Mr Ziengs does not wish to comment on the substance of the question. I repeat my question: are it not just entrepreneurs who want to eat from the state grape? And shouldn't we be dealing with it in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u26	I find it scandalous what is being said here. "Entrepreneurs who want to eat from the state grape." These are entrepreneurs who simply want to participate in a tender, a contract put on the market by the government and on which the entrepreneur has to make an offer. Such an offer is often much cheaper than the government itself does. Then I think that entrepreneurs are being thrown away in a way that doesn't fit. I think that is scandalous and I do not want to talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr. Chairman. The CDA wonders why the cabinet is such a supporter of contracting. The proposal of the Minister for Housing and National Service in 2013 to use postal and courier services, cleaning and security and to appoint 5,000 additional officials for that purpose was not only a bread robbery for private parties, but is also more expensive and sends the wrong signal as far as the CDA is concerned. Once again, the market indicates that costs are 25% higher as a result of this procurement. We should strive together for the best price if we pay these services with taxpayers' money. Our citizens can expect the government to be economical and to handle the money they bring together. For example, cleaning companies are currently challenging plans to employ a large group of cleaners as civil servants as of next year. If that decision is to be reversed, we have now thrown away a lot of community money. This brings us to the question of when the cabinet will realize that one of the biggest problems of the Dutch economy is that we have too large a government. Today, we would like to hear from the Minister of OCW what her serious arguments are for not carrying out a widely adopted motion and disregarding the opinion of the Commission of Procurement Experts. In doing so, we ask the Minister how it is now possible for the Commission of Procurement Experts to state that the complaint of a market party is well founded and that the Minister of OCW then states in her letter that the implementation of the original plans is entirely justified. How can it be that the Minister of OCW states in her letter that no jobs will be lost in SMEs as a result of contracting, whereas the Commission of Procurement Experts does indicate this in its opinion? We would very much like to receive a support from this Minister on this point. Does it really insist, even today, that the current state of affairs is not detrimental to SMEs? The Minister of OCW states in her letter that the cost of a scan at the Tax Administration is comparable to the cost of a scan on the market. What figures did it base this on? Has the Minister asked market players what their prices are? We would also like to receive from the Minister a detailed written justification of the costs of the tender, which, according to the letter, amount to €750,000. That seems to the CDA Group to be a very high amount of money, so we would like to be supported in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr Bosman is on my list of speakers on behalf of the PVV, but I do not see him in the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Jan Vos on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating an ideological issue that has been of great importance to political parties for decades: what exactly is the role of the government and what is the role of the market? In the sixties, seventies, the Dutch State was built and a lot of good work was done. In the 1980s and 1990s there was a great deal of criticism and a wave of liberalisation was launched. The image that my CDA colleague just outlined of too large a government is still very dominant in the Dutch debate. That debate has come out of Anglo-Saxon political culture in the days of Reagan and Thatcher. Most people won't remember it, but from that time on it comes the idea of an over-sized, hungry government that has been outlined by a number of spokesmen again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u30	Despite the enthusiasm of Mr Vos to speak ideological lyrics, I would like to interrupt him. In my view, this is a very simple, basic issue, namely the filing and carrying out of chamber motions. That doesn't have much to do with ideological issues. A Parliamentary motion has not been carried out and the Minister says he has good reasons for doing so. That's what we're talking about today. I have seen that the VVD and the PvdA do not agree on this, but isn't it just very important for a Dutch MP that Tweede Kamermoeten is performed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u31	I have just had an exchange of views with Mr Ziengs on this. As a rule, a chamber motion must be performed. It is, of course, the case that the cabinet has its own responsibility. If, within the policy frameworks and within the law, the cabinet considers that a chamber motion does not support and supports those policy frameworks, then the cabinet can dismiss such a motion. I would add that Mr Verhoeven's group interprets the motion differently from Mr Ziengs's group. In any case, a cabinet may reject motions, but in particular it may reject motions which are not enforceable. In fact, this motion does not fit within the Dutch law. That is the essence of my speech and I really wanted to say that at the end of my speech, but I will tell Mr Verhoeven now. The Minister writes that the State can simply tender this and that this is the role of the State. The Minister says that what the Chamber wants is not necessary at all. We disagree on this, but the cabinet feels that is the case. Fortunately, such a thing is not usual, but it has happened more often in the past. So it's possible. It also depends on the quality of the motion that has been tabled and on the arguments of the parliamentary groups that have tabled and supported that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr Vos, interruptions must be short, but the answers must also be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u33	Sorry, I'm a politician, chairman. You're getting bigger and bigger around here. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u34	Finally, Mr Verhoeven may respond again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u35	I would also like to return to the point made by Mr Vos, with which Mr Ziengs was unhappy, and in fact I was unhappy. Mr Vos spoke about entrepreneurs who want to eat from the state grape. Is that Mr Vos's view of the 60 billion that the government puts on the market every year through tendering?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u36	If it can, is appropriate and is the best solution, I think it is in principle very good if we are to contract matters in the market. Of course, the Labour Party also supports entrepreneurs. It mainly supports small businesses. However, I have often experienced in my career here that a certain group of entrepreneurs are knocking on the door very hard and that they therefore benefit from the specific process that is taking place at that time. This has nothing to do with the general interest that we serve here, but it has to do with the financial interest that these entrepreneurs have in such a process. I believe that is also the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u37	It is quite clear to me that the PvdA does not care that this motion has been put aside by the Minister. However, this motion, which we have produced together, has not just come about. First, a Commission of Procurement Experts declared a complaint well founded. Now it's in our Procurement Act, too. Does Mr Vos of the PvdA Group think that the Commission of Procurement Experts should be pushed aside? I understand that from what he said today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr Vos responds briefly to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u39	In short, I can say, no, I don't think so. However, I believe that the Minister's argument is valid, namely that the State can be seen as a single legal entity. This was recently highlighted in the case of climate change. In it, the State is charged as an entity. So I think it is quite possible that that State will decide to spend something because it can be more efficient. I'd like to leave that to the Cabinet. Now that Mrs Mulder looks so beautiful on the interrupting microphone, I would remind her that it was she who said: the government is so big. That's the image that's being summoned. Let me tell her that the number of officials per capita in the Netherlands is half lower than in the United Kingdom. There is 10% of the population civil servant, in the Netherlands it is 5%. The percentage in the Netherlands is also lower than in France, and even lower than in the United States. I say that to those who take an example to that country in the liberal sense. The percentage is also lower in the Netherlands than in Germany. The Netherlands therefore has a very efficient government. Well, that's a good thing to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u40	It is quite clear that the PvdA is here today arguing for even higher public expenditure and for rising deficits. That's fine and that's the PvdA's own, let's just say. But how does the PvdA view the role of the Commission of Procurement Experts? Because the moment you set up that committee to ask for advice, after which you take that advice next to you, you may wonder why you set up such a committee. I'd like a clear and brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u41	I think this is a little too easy. You are drawing the picture of a huge government that does everything, not looking at the market properly. I will then give you figures, showing that we are twice as efficient as Britain, to give you an example. You're not going to go into that at all. I'm sorry to hear that. As far as the committee is concerned, I have already said that I consider the arguments put forward by the Minister to be more important than those put forward by the committee. I have certainly taken those arguments into account, but I prefer our own cabinet to the procurement committee when it comes to the final assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u42	Just to explain something, Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u43	I'd love to. I ask a question that has not been answered twice, and then I am accused of not answering a question. It shouldn't get weirder in here!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u44	The Commission of Procurement Experts has looked at the rules that apply once the government decides to buy out of the door. But that is exactly what the cabinet has not done here. That is why this committee is not about this. You can bring her in, but she's irrelevant in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u45	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u46	That is what I am saying to Mr Ziengs and others who believe that this has not gone well. They need to study what happened there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u47	Don't provoke me, Mr. Fox. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u48	I was dealing with the big government and the way in which we, including the Labour Party, had us sewn into the suit by those who spread the idea that the market could always do better. We have privatized everything and everything, which is why we don't get any more mail on Monday. That is perhaps the reason why the banks have gone bankrupt that we have had to save with taxpayers' money. It's a laugh, but it was 17 billion for one bank. We still haven't sold that bank and we still don't have that money back. The fact that that market is always doing its job so well and that you have to be there is just not true. It is time that we, as politicians, took our responsibilities and looked at what the government can do and what the market should do. If the cabinet says that contracting is more efficient, since we will then put a whole paper mill next to us and that we may be able to do it even cheaper, I recommend that you do so if it fits within the agreed policy frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u49	Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u50	I'll wait for the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u51	I have just asked in my first term whether it is true that the market players could do the scanning work 25% cheaper. What if the Minister is going to say, on the basis of figures, that this is indeed the case and that she has made a different assessment, did the Minister make a proper assessment? Or perhaps you say: 25% cheaper means lower taxes, against the same work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u52	I have just said that, if the cabinet decides to tender, I am not at all opposed to that. But I do think you should make up for that trade-off every time. If the cabinet has made a different assessment, good arguments are given in the letter we received. If the cabinet is so impressed by your arguments and by the political pressure that is being exerted, after which it comes to a review, then I will not stand in the way of that either. We are having a curious debate, because in this case, the Chamber is the one who is making a huge stumpy about a relatively simple business process of the government. In doing so, the cabinet chooses the best way to do it, while the Chamber knows better and submits a motion on it. Is that necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u53	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u54	I want to correct that image. We have already tabled a motion on this subject, which has been adopted and which has been rejected by this Minister. I understand the position of the PvdA spokesperson on this point: he wants to protect his own minister, and that is quite understandable. But if there were lower costs by spending it, the same PvdA group here says: when I hear that from our minister later, that is still reason for us to proceed with outsourcing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u55	I just said something else. I'm being paraphrased wrong right now. I am not going to repeat it, because I can see from the look of Mrs Mulder that she knows very well what I have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u56	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u57	I thought it was a wonderful input so far; I was very satisfied with it myself. I have seen that some spokesmen feel very differently about this, but I appreciate that. That's the best political tradition we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vos. You've been able to say a lot through interruptions. Mr Ziengs has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u59	In Mr Vos's speech, he made it clear that he would at least talk about the legality of the chosen construction, either in terms of tendering or in terms of tendering. He already provoked me to interrupt back then. I didn't use that. First of all, I wanted to wait for his speech, because he might come up with substantive issues which could lead me to a different conviction. Our group has also carried out research into the way in which a choice of spending has been made. Next, the club of tender experts said that this was completely incorrect. Mr Vos says that we can put that beside us. However, even after that time research has been done and the results were announced last Monday by the University of Utrecht. The lawyers there also found that there should have been a call for tenders. All kinds of lawyers, professors and experts tell us we're on the wrong track. Is Mr Vos aware of the content of these investigations, rather than accusing us of not having done enough research?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u60	The Market and Government Act allows governments to decide for themselves whether activities for the benefit of their own government organisation are outsourced to third parties or carried out under their own management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u61	This is very strange. I can recall that the Minister's reply, as well as the explanations I received in the interim, stated on several occasions that there was no direct link to the Market and Government Act, and not even to the Procurement Act which we are now calling for. Mr Vos now suddenly claims that the Market and Government Act applies here. That's most peculiar. How does Mr Vos view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u62	I remain in the position that I have expressed here as spokesman for the Labour Party. I believe that this is the case of the State as an entity, as it also acts in court cases. I believe that there is no reason to assume that the cabinet has acted outside the framework of the law. The decision taken by the cabinet is justifiable. I understand that Mr Ziengs does not agree, but it is not primarily the Chamber's competence to hold the cabinet accountable in this way. The motion tabled by our Chamber has been put down by the cabinet several times in the past, because the cabinet believes that it does not fit in with the rules. It seems clear to me that Mr Ziengs disagrees with me on these rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr. Chairman. It is a curious debate. The Labour Party has just also driven away the very last entrepreneurs. Mr Vos is very proud of his input. As far as I am concerned, the VVD Group, in its turn, is extremely fundamental, and rightly so, on one point, but against a PvdA Minister for Education, Culture and Science, where it could be a little more often against its Minister for Economic Affairs, who has also failed in this area when it comes to the position of entrepreneurs. I would therefore prefer to look beyond the political games between the PvdA and the VVD. I think it is much more important to address the fact that we are talking here about EUR 60 billion per year. This is what the government and public organisations spend on buying products and services every year. That's a huge amount of money. This indicates that it is so important that there are clear procurement rules and laws. The same applies to the decision whether or not to spend in or out. Those rules are there to ensure that the government does things that fit its tasks and that it does not do things that can also be done by the market. Indeed, there is a tendency for government to continue to grow. In this case, it has clearly gone wrong. A Commission of Procurement Experts has made a sharp assessment that has simply been ignored. The fact that the motion of the Chamber is simply not being carried out is, of course, not good for confidence in the government either. It would therefore be a good thing for the Minister to say today, whatever the outcome of this debate, that we made a mistake, that it did not go well, that it should not have been and that it should not have been, and that we will ensure an appropriate solution. As far as I am concerned, this solution should focus on the future, because the Minister says that there is a great deal of damage involved in reversing the decision. The question is whether this is desirable. I leave that to Mr Ziegs, the initiator of this debate, who is already preparing a motion for a resolution. First of all, I want clarification from the Minister as to how this could have happened. She refers to a "positive business case" in her answers to the parliamentary questions. I wonder what that business case looks like. First, equipment is purchased by the National Archive, then the scanners are loaned out to the Tax Administration and finally new employees need to be hired and trained to operate the equipment. Surely that can never be more efficient than hiring market players. It especially sounds to me like a business case for an expanding government and not for high-quality scanning work. I have a few questions about this. How exactly did the decision-making take place? What were the reasons for the decision? Is it true that new employees need to be hired? That's the expanding government. Or are there employees at the Tax Office who have nothing to do and who now have to operate the scan street? The Minister says that the National Archive has sufficient experience with procurement to assess what a market price is. That's a very dangerous argument. If that were the criterion, it would mean that we could abolish any procurement rule. Then any buyer with sufficient experience can award all tenders to the party that he considers to be the best. Public, independent and objective tenders have been created precisely to ensure that we no longer do so, but that we therefore award on the basis of objective criteria. I'd like to get a reaction to this. The Minister states in her reply to the parliamentary questions that it would cost €750,000 to reverse this decision. How does the Minister support that amount? And what does this accomplished fact mean for the future? For example, you could justify any wrong spending afterwards with the argument that it is very expensive to reverse it. Decisions to use certain services must always be taken critically to ensure that it is not better done by the market. This does not seem to have been done carefully in this case. I hope that the Minister will recognise this and that she will find a solution. I also hope that we will do better in the future. After all, the Ministry of Education is the Ministry of Education. "Education" stands for "learning" and therefore also for learning the mistakes that are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr. Chairman. I suspect that this will be my shortest contribution to a plenary debate ever. A lot of things I could and would have liked to say have already been brought in by colleagues. I look forward to the Minister's reply on all these points. There is one question left for me, a rather simple question. I believe that all public services are normally subject to tendering procedures. That is normally the case, perhaps with a few exceptions. Normally a ministry or part of a ministry spends neatly. Now it's been chosen not to. I would therefore like to know from the Minister why it was specifically chosen in this case to deviate from that and why it was specifically chosen in this case to look for what the Minister calls an in-house solution or a 'in-house solution'. What makes this spending of public money different from other spending? I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u65	I'm not used to that either: so very, very briefly. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. It is good to debate with the Chamber today something that seems to be a rather technical subject, namely the procurement or tendering of an assignment at the National Archives for so-called scanning. I am glad to be able to debate this with the Chamber today, because she has previously spoken with Mr Kamp in a debate on the market and government. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I would like to share with the Chamber the considerations that led me to the decision I made. This decision obviously involves the relationship between market, government and procurement, as well as the question of what the government wants to do with organising an efficient government with shared services. The first is the general portfolio of colleague Kamp van EZ, the second by colleague Blok voor W and R, but they come together in this case what we do at the National Archives. I stand here as Minister of OCW and I have responsibility for culture. I also have a responsibility for the proper management of the National Archive and its social importance. This concerns the availability and accessibility of the national archives collections and their connection to the network of heritage institutions. It is precisely in this context that there is an important legitimization of the decision that I believe I have still taken with justice. I would first like to share with the Chamber the social importance and then I would like to comment on the government's vision of cooperation, on why I chose the Tax Administration and, thirdly, on the demand for market and government. Due to the social importance of availability and accessibility of national archives collections, the National Archives will digitize 10% of the paper archive collections over the next fifteen years. By digitizing the most consulted archives, research in archive material of the government becomes easier and a wider audience will come into contact with the information of the National Archives and the Regional Historical Centres, the RHCs. That's a government job. After all, this is public sector information that is frequently consulted by a broad audience. The archives that are digitized in this project, this specific project we are talking about, are stored at the National Archives and at the Regional Historical Centres. These are archives with different formats and in different material state, which form one whole, one archive. The selection we are talking about today consists of the VOC archive. I'm just saying this isn't a left-wing hobby. It is of great historical importance that everything we have is preserved. These are notarial deeds from 1800, but they can also be ship cards, letters or maps. It is fragile and diverse material, with considerable and great cultural value. As minister responsible for the National Archives and the national collections, I therefore also attach great importance to the sustainability of these collections and this heritage for the future, for all generations after us. So how does that work and why did I decide to let the IRS do that? For that, I need to explain what's going on with the framework contracts at the National Archives. Contracting entities in the market are subject to a framework contract. This means that you do not have to re-program every new contract and create new contracts. Once a framework agreement has been concluded at European level, further contracts shall be awarded for four years under the conditions laid down therein. These further assignments will no longer be awarded separately at European level. It is very complicated to scan this special archive, because all letters, photos and ship cards are delivered in boxes. You need a lot of expertise, special expertise for that. With the current framework contracts that the National Archive has, this would mean that after the work preparation by the National Archive several archive documents would have to be sent to different providers for the scan. In addition, the national archives of the Regional Historical Centres are not covered by the current framework contracts, so that new procurement is needed. In the end, we said: in the case of a tender for the work that the Tax Administration would now be doing, it should be clear in advance what material is in the boxes in order to be able to procure it properly. This makes the work process as a whole very complex, more complex and probably also more expensive, with all the risks of errors in the process. In cooperation and procurement with the Tax Administration, framework contracts and a division between individual lots are not at issue and unnecessary. If the boxes now arrive at the Tax Office, it will be examined what material is in it, what format, what preparation is required to remove staples or bindings, cleanly store the seals, repair damage and which type of scan then applies. All this is organized in one location with people from the National Archives in collaboration with people from the Tax Administration. In addition, it is a question of digitizing a large stream of archive material, which is processed in several years. This is subject to requirements other than those applicable to a small, demarcated project. Archives stay together as a whole. In this way, as a responsible minister, I can guarantee that the collections are kept well. So, regardless of how the government operates, on which I will come back, and regardless of how we deal with procurement, it is my primary responsibility to ensure that the preservation of the national collections and the legacy of the archives we have, I quote here as an example the VOC archive that is currently under way, but this is true for many other archives that are being efficiently and collectively guaranteed, so that they can also be used in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u67	The Minister has so far said all things about this specific complex, complex and historically very important task. Of course, everyone agrees with that. However, I supported the interrupting microphone rather early in the day because I believe that the type of assignment and its importance can never justify or not justify the choice to do it as a government itself and can never be decisive for that. We also spend a lot of other complex, very important public authority on market players. Let me give you the example of building tunnels. That too is not done by the government itself because it happens to be very complex. I'm fine with the Minister calling this. I also find it very interesting to know exactly how these boxes were created and what is in them, but I am much more interested in the following. It doesn't really matter what assignment it is, does it? It's about the objective rules, isn't it? Surely it may well be that a market party could do just as well and as carefully?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u68	It's a matter of care. That is why I explained that with the framework contracts the National Archives have, it is not possible to invest the expertise for processing those boxes with everything in them at one company. This would mean that it would all have to be split into parts, that the National Archives would have a lot of extra work to carefully separate it and that there would be a risk that things would break up due to the vulnerability of the material. It could also be more expensive if it had to be outsourced to different parties. So, frankly, I do not agree with Mr Verhoeven that there would be any reason to go into tendering. It does, however, require that I am right on my second subject, which is that we take care of customization and careful consideration, as we do nationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u69	I understand that the Minister is saying this in her passion for content, but I think it is very dangerous. For example, any minister can join the Chamber and, on the basis of a story about complexity or its importance, proclaim that it is impossible for a market participant to do it. That is simply not the case. I think that almost all contracts can be carried out by a market participant. For this debate, I think it is much more important that we answer the question of how to ensure that we make this task accessible to companies in a good way and that we look at what has gone wrong. For the Minister is now pretending to be a perfectly justified choice, but the Commission's view of procurement experts, who think separately, is quite different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u70	I'll get to that in a minute. I understand that I am talking here to the spokesmen of the Committee on Economic Affairs, but I really want to say here that there is more than just the market. There is also a culture that is vulnerable and worthy of protection. I am responsible for the protection and accessibility of cultural heritage. I assume that this is also a very important value for Mr Verhoeven's party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u71	I'm very worried about the Minister's response. This is mainly because she describes that in those boxes there are all different things that need to be scanned, while the book scanners included in the tender can only scan certain items from those boxes. So, as the Minister explains, there will soon be another call for tenders for other devices to be used to scan the quantities in the boxes. I don't think that's the point. I therefore foresee many more calls for tenders for equipment, while the scanners that have now been purchased are not even able to do all the things the Minister proposes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's a premature conclusion. I would almost like to say that it is an incorrect conclusion. We have just made the deal with the Tax Administration, because it can do it at once with this complex assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u73	This still does not prevent another question from being asked by the Tax Administration for additional equipment to do exactly those things, while there are plenty of companies that can actually do these things. That is why we are calling for a tender. It seems absurd to me that we will have to have more equipment purchased later and have to be controlled by the Tax Administration in order to be able to do the whole package in one place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u74	That is a conclusion that Mr Ziengs draws, but I do not see any reason for it. We want to tender it to the Tax Administration because we can have the complex assignment that is available in this case carried out in one hand by the Tax Administration. Within the framework contracts we now have, we are spending a great deal of money on the latter, with all the vulnerabilities of that. In my opinion, this fits very well with a government that needs to be economical. So we have come to the conclusion that it is justified to spend it both because of quality and efficiency in this particular case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u75	The Minister just said that one of her considerations was that it could be more expensive. However, I can assume that the Minister has examined this in advance and made the assessment on which our taxpayers' money is spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yeah, and just because we've been thinking about that, that's how we did this. This brings me to my second point of view: how do we deal with this as a government? We want public services to work well together. That means we're going to see how we can get to state-wide shared services. Mrs Mulder herself said that this is about taxpayers' money, and that must be economical. Then it is also important to look wider as a government than just your own department and your own institutions. That's exactly what we're doing here. Mrs Mulder may imagine that it would probably be cheaper if you could turn off an assignment with one organisation that can handle this complex task and do it in one place than if you had to turn off that assignment with a number of companies. I say again that we are dealing with the framework agreements currently in force. So I can't just go and sign up for it in general. I'm stuck with window agreements. I'll come back to that later, but I'm actually still at the beginning of my story about the three angles. I understand very well that Mrs Mulder's approach is primarily the market and government angle, but there are other points of view that need to be taken into account. One of these themes is: economical handling of tax resources and ensuring that the government operates small and efficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u77	Finally, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u78	In my first term, I asked the Minister if she knew the figures that business gave, namely that it would be 25% more expensive and that they would at least be able to deliver 25% cheaper. I would like a response from the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u79	It is very doubtful whether market players are cheaper. The National Archives have the existing framework agreements, sufficient up-to-date market knowledge and expertise to make a good assessment on this basis. That information and expertise are involved in the preparation of the business case. So I don't recognize myself in that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u80	Then I suggest you move on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mrs Mulder asked me why the choice was made for contracting and not for contracting. I have pointed out that this is a state-wide approach. This isn't just about the National Archives. This is how different public services try to work together in a good way, just to be efficient. The Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst therefore writes in his reform agenda in May 2013 that after the Programme Renewal Rijksdienst and the subsequent Implementation Programme Compact Rijksdienst, a state-wide infrastructure for business management is now being realized. He also indicates in this agenda that this infrastructure consists of state-wide frameworks and shared services organizations. The main objective is to provide quality services to the primary process of ministries at a good price. In replying to the parliamentary questions, I pointed out other examples of internal services and shared services within the government. These examples can be found in joint procurement, procurement execution centers, document services, Doc-Direkt, payroll administration and personnel management P-Direkt for all departments. If we were to continue Mrs Mulder's line strictly, we would not be able to do so, even though we are committed to working together as an efficient government. There are many other examples to give, for example the joint service provided by the Central Judicial Collection Office for, among other things, the Education Implementation Service and the Dutch Health Institute. Considerations of whether or not to do tasks and work within the Empire itself, i.e. to be officially committed, are made on a case-by-case basis on the basis of ability to act, service, cost and efficiency. This creates the compact and efficient government already desired by various Cabinets. I do not therefore recognise either from Mr Verhoeven's observation or from Mrs Mulder that the government is only growing. We are dealing with a government that is getting smaller and where work needs to be done more and more efficiently. This also applies to the National Archives, because to those who still think that we are making an explicit policy change here to spend everything instead of spending on it, I say that we have tendered EUR 1.6 million over the last two years and that we are now deciding to spend it for the first time, as an exception and because of the vulnerability and complexity of the matter. This also raises the question raised by Mr Ziengs on how to relocate to the Tax Office. I don't know if the IRS has looked at other options for relocation of employees. I do know that there are also employees in the tax administration in the flexible shell for whom these scanning activities would mean that they could get a permanent appointment. The Chamber recently debated with the government how we deal with people in the flexible shell, how we deal with people on zero-hour contracts. In addition, the desire has been expressed to employ these people on a permanent basis. The Chamber has told me as Minister of Education that I must take care of that at DUO. I did, but I can't do anything entirely different at DUO than what I do at the National Archives, because then I'm no longer reliable to the employees of the government. That is what we must stand for. In total, there are about 30 employees. Ms Mulder asked whether this would lead to job losses and jobs for SMEs. No, because it's about customization and there's a case-by-case balance to be made, that doesn't have to be the case at all. In this case, it is a matter of new work. I also think it is of the utmost importance that, for vulnerable employees with flexible contracts from a region of the Netherlands where there is a shrinkage and high unemployment, we have the task of contributing to employment. This is how we do it. So there is no loss of work elsewhere either, because it is new work. In my opinion, therefore, this decision fits very well with the national approach, not as a rule but as a decision based on specific considerations in which we have allowed customization to dominate. I come to the question of whether this also fits in with the relationship between market, government and procurement. Many spokesmen have already referred to the Commission of Procurement Experts and its opinion. The motion is largely based on that. Mr Kamp has already stated in detail that the cabinet considers the work of this committee, set up by the Minister of EZ, to be of great importance. But its advice does not relieve the government of its responsibility to make its own assessment and assessment. And that had to be done in this case. The then Minister of EZ, Mr Verhagen, has already indicated this in the letter of amendment to the Procurement Act. The opinion of the committee shall not be binding. A contracting authority may depart from the opinion only with good reasons. In my opinion, the committee mixes the criteria that apply when the State purchases on the market with the conditions under which the State as a legal entity can have activities carried out within its own organisation. The National Archives and the Tax Administration are both part of the same legal entity. As such, they are not in proportion to each other as the client-contractor. It is up to governments themselves to decide whether they are doing their own work or contracting. It is up to the government concerned to determine what is best in an individual case. The government can look at economic but also, of course, social and social aspects. This will not come as a surprise, because Mr Kamp said at the VAO where the theme of the National Archives came up, that it was assumed that "you should look at separate departments." I continue with the words of Mr Kamp: "If you look at the law, however, you can see that it is not government departments but a legal entity, one government. The Government is a legal entity, which means that there is a misjudgement, a misjudgement, made by the Commission of Procurement Experts." It is, of course, regrettable in view of the expectations that have perhaps been raised by certain entrepreneurs, but I share the view of my colleague from EZ, namely that, unfortunately, the judgment in this case is not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u82	I think the Minister's approach is very special. From the reply of the Minister for Economic Affairs, I recall that he referred to an opinion he had obtained from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. So he apparently quoted the information he had received from it and had it recorded in the Acts as such. The point I am making is that the Minister's answer identifies a number of issues which I think are very strange. First of all, the documents describe how the Tax Administration is going to train people to do this specialized work. Then I think: how can it be that specialized companies that do this work on a daily basis are now put away as if they could not do so? Then the Minister says that there is new work. But then I think, every tender you put out is new work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u83	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u84	Thirdly, in Mr Blok's letter on this subject, I would like to put a question to you very specifically from 2013 that there will be no extension of scanning facilities at the Tax Office. That's literally in that passage. I would like to know from the Minister how she looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u85	This was a very long interruption. It is really the intention to keep the interruptions short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u86	Mr President, I am trying to sum up these things in order to clarify the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u87	Then you'll have to take advantage of your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u88	It is not just the Minister of EZ and I as people who share this view. Of course, we have also looked at this very extensively with our employees. If we couldn't tender here anymore, you can still argue whether it's desirable, then the government wouldn't be able to tender anywhere. I have just given you all kinds of examples that are broader and not covered by my portfolio. I am talking about examples in the framework of shared services from the government. So I remain of the opinion that this statement by the committee is not in line with the way in which we organized the government. It is also not only the Ministry of EZ and the Ministry of OCW that take this view. We also had a consultation with the Interdepartmental Committee on Business Legal Advice and the National Attorney. All agreed that the opinion of the Commission of Procurement Experts did not stand. The Community legislature follows a consistent line in that new directive: "It should be noted that no provision in this directive obliges Member States to outsource or outsource the services for which they wish to provide themselves or to organise by means other than public contracts within the meaning of this Directive'. The lawyer says: 'A Member State is free to dispose of services internally, i.e. in house, or to place them on the market by means of a public contract'. The lawyer also states that it follows from the contract law that an agreement can be concluded only if it is concluded between individual legal persons. The national attorney says: "The functional interpretation of the concept of an agreement proposed by the Commission of Public Procurement in the sense that it also includes agreements for consideration between parts of the same legal persons does not fall within the scope of European public procurement law." In short, it is not just my personal opinion and not just the personal opinion of the minister of EZ. It's the departments, the inter-departmental commission and the state's attorney who find this. To be honest, I wouldn't know where else to get more expertise to see if this is definitely allowed within the rules we have set with each other. Then you may still find it undesirable, but at least it is not contrary to the rules that we as a government can and can apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u89	A brief interruption: I have already referred to the Utrecht University report which explicitly states that this tender should have been a tender. The Minister quotes from other work, but this report is explicitly involved in the question. That report is ready and the Minister has it on her desk. I ask her if she can respond to that. I just asked that in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u90	It's possible. I would add that this report was informally made available to us yesterday. It is not yet public, so that makes the discussion difficult, even in the sense of how comprehensive we have been able to look at it. After an initial preliminary study, it becomes clear that both the Commission of Procurement Experts and the University of Utrecht make it clear that you can organise procurement law in different ways, namely administrative law, as happened in some Member States within Europe, or private law, as in the Netherlands. Within our private law system, procurement as it is now, is a proper way of doing things. So I see no reason in the Utrecht University report to misunderstand the decision to ask the National Archives to do this job. By the way, I assume that the further discussion of this report will also take place with the Minister of EZ, because of course the consequences are much wider than just the issue of the National Archives. All in all, I have weighed the cultural and societal importance of high quality digitisation of cultural heritage that is vulnerable and contains complex material. I have allowed that to weigh heavily, but I have, of course, made sure that it fits in with national policy. I have tested it legally and I have considered whether it is justified in the context of market forces. I've had confirmation on all these questions. That means that, in my opinion, this task is still possible. I'll just say once more that it's not a habit to spend everything. Over the past two years, we have tendered 1.6 million at the National Archives. This means that entrepreneurs can make use of it. That's where they can take their chances. In this particular case, it is our great preference to have the task done by the Tax Administration, because of its vulnerability and specific specialism.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u91	There must have been a time when everyone thought the government always did everything better. We know by now that many companies may be able to do better, but they deserve a chance. The Minister states in her letter that the cost of a scan at the Tax Administration is comparable to the cost of a scan in the market. What figures does the Minister base this on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u92	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u93	I repeat my question, which, by the way, comes from my first term. The Minister of OCW states in the letter that the cost of a scan at the Tax Administration is comparable to the cost of a scan in the market. What figures did the Minister base this on? Has the Minister asked the market players what their prices are?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u94	I have just indicated that the National Archive, also because it tendered a lot, knows what is being asked and what the market value may be. It emerged from this that the costs charged by the Tax Administration are certainly reasonable. I thought I had already answered the question of whether it would by definition be cheaper in the market. No, that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u95	I thank the Minister for these answers. I think she has the figures on the cost per scan available. I'm sure she'd like to share that with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u96	No, because a very large part of this information is market sensitive. All I can do is share it in confidence. The National Archive has existing framework agreements and sufficient up-to-date market knowledge and expertise on the basis of which it can make a good assessment. This information and expertise is involved in the preparation of the business case, as I say to Mr Verhoeven. I can't just share these data because of market sensitivity. I'm sorry, but it's no different. It is part of the entire market operation and procurement. I come to Mr Zieng's specific question as to what would happen if we were to stop the work now and, for the sake of the wishes of the Chamber, I expressly state that I do not see any legal and economic reasons for taking a different decision now, if we were to stop the tax administration and proceed with a call for tenders from private parties. That's gonna buy us a year's worth of time. A tender must last for at least six months. A tender must be prepared etc. In addition, the digitisation process itself needs to be redesigned. All the work and work preparation that has been done so far has been for nothing. An amount of €750,000 has now been spent. I think it is important, precisely because it is tax money and the Chamber points out the importance of the economy in this respect, that we handle the resources carefully. I would be very sorry if these resources were to somehow disappear. That would be capital destruction. However, I am also aware that I am speaking here with the Committee on Economic Affairs. Last week I had a debate with the spokesmen of culture. They still have requirements for extra spending, for example for a youth theater company for €500,000. I told the Chamber I don't have that money. If $750,000 were to flow away in this way, that would be capital destruction. This would not bring any solution to the vulnerable cultural sector. Perhaps some Members will ask what these costs are. These include transport, scanners, archives, adjusting the scanners, describing and decorating the scanning process and investing in the Tax Administration on the infrastructure. When you reverse the cooperation with the Tax Administration, that expenditure would have been for nothing. In addition, an invitation to tender will be more expensive anyway. That is not my decision, but it is because of the VAT benefits that will then lapse. In addition, a call for tenders does not guarantee that this work can also be carried out by the market players, precisely because of the complexity of the archives that are now under way and the framework contracts that we have already concluded. These framework contracts now contain a number of companies and it is doubtful whether one of them can do this very specialised work. I give...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u97	I would like to give Mr Verhoeven the floor in this way, but finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u98	Well, I really don't think it would be wise to proceed with a tender at the moment. This would not only have an economic impact, but it would also be very vulnerable to the work that needs to be done. I also find this irresponsible because of my responsibility for the quality of the work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u99	Following the statement made by the Minister at the beginning of her speech on possible highly specialised, high-quality entrepreneurs who could very well be able to carry out such a task, she now concludes her speech with a second false argument, namely the wasting of taxpayers' money. I find that rather cheap in this case. The minister says if we reversed it now, it would be a waste of taxpayers' money. However, this would apply to any choice that is reversed in the case of a choice, whether or not it is correct, for tenderers or contracting entities. If something reversed is a waste of taxpayers' money, it would be a free pass for each ministry, for each municipality, for each province and for every semi-public institution to opt for tendering. Because if they took it back, it would cost taxpayers money, so let them carry on. The Minister did not mean that, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u100	No, but I wanted to point out that this is a special decision. It's not just a decision. Again, the National Archives spend most of their time. I have already mentioned the amounts involved. But that is not justified in this case and in the current situation. I am certainly not talking to dedain about entrepreneurs who would not be able to handle complex tasks. However, it is rather complicated. I'm sure the Chamber will know it all better than I do, but we're also dealing with framework agreements. We have a framework agreement with a number of companies. If we were to contract at the moment, it would have to be tendered at those companies. And it's complicated. Just think of that box with the VOC archive, with all those complicated letters, books, maps, ship messages and so on. Not one of the companies currently covered by the framework agreement can do so all together. I'm not ruling out the fact that there are companies that can. But then I actually come to the next part of my speech, which is about what the consequences would be if I stopped now. However, Mr Verhoeven himself asked what the consequences would be if they were to be tendered at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u101	The Minister may not do so because we would know better, but she herself started to say that it is all very complicated. I think it's very simple. I was fine with the middle part of the Minister's speech. I am referring to what she said about the framework agreement and the shared services, because I can all agree with that. This also applies to its rebuttal of the Commission's argument of procurement experts versus the national attorney and the interdepartmental committee. That was all very good argument, and I am therefore concerned that I find it difficult for the Minister to say: yes, it is a very important cultural historical task and it cannot be carried out by entrepreneurs. I really am not sensitive to that, no more than I am sensitive to the argument of tax waste. I really want to have said that, because in the time I worked for SMEs, I have heard countless municipalities say: 'We all make very large super-contracts, because that saves us a lot of money. Mass is cash register." As a result, many small entrepreneurs have not been given the jobs they were entitled to. I am not saying that this is the case here, but I am not sensitive to the Minister's two arguments and to the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u102	Then let me try to sum up that first argument. I did not say that entrepreneurs could never do it, because they would not be able to handle complex tasks. What I did say was that a number of entrepreneurs could participate in the current framework agreements. Experience with such calls for tenders is not undividedly positive. There has been a lot of discussion about more work and more costs. On the other hand, the experiences of the Tax Administration are positive. That's where the cooperation is going well. So I am not saying that entrepreneurs could never do it right for a long time. Perhaps I should address this point right away. Is there a time when we could come to a different decision-making process? Yes, the current framework agreements expire in June 2016. At that time, we can re-contract. All companies that can handle this complex task can participate. I am right in saying that, as far as I know, there are about ten such companies in the Netherlands, but there are also companies in Belgium and Germany that could be eligible. It will therefore be a European tender. I say this to everyone who uses the argument that it would be good for Dutch employment and that we are protecting Dutch SMEs in this way. It is a tender and I cannot say anything about it with certainty, but it is also possible that that contract would go to Belgium or Germany. Now that I say that, it has not been said that it could be done without additional costs, because then too much remains to be done. If we are to contract, we will have to consider whether we can include the preparations we have already made in these new tenders. The Chamber believes that I should be careful with tax money, and that would mean that I have to fulfil my responsibility as Minister of OCW in order to handle vulnerable cultural heritage carefully and with care. This means that we will have to set conditions for this. Furthermore, we already know that we have lost at least part of the €750,000 that has already been invested. It is not Mr Verhoeven's portfolio, but I will say it to him once more. I am conducting this debate with all my colleagues, all of whom in the cultural world are calling for extra attention to be paid to that group or sector. So I'm gonna have to tell them we lost that money. Theoretically, therefore, there is an opportunity to come to a new balance after considering the aspects of efficiency, content and quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u103	I can be brief, because the Minister is bringing it more reasonable now. In my group there is a cultural spokesperson and an entrepreneur, and we discussed Mr Zieng's motion together at a group meeting. We then considered all these points, and it is therefore wrong for the Minister to pretend that they are two totally separate worlds, because at least they have come together with the D66 Group. We have made our assessment and until today it is to the advantage of those who say we should have tendered. There has been a trade-off and it has, at least until today, been in favour of those who said that tender should have been made. Now that the Minister has put forward all these arguments, including the view on the future and the risks associated with them, I think we are faced with a new situation, and we shall discuss them again. However, it is not the case that there are two totally divided worlds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u104	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u105	It is the first time that I have discussed this with Mr Verhoeven. I would just remind him that I am mainly debating culture with his colleagues. That is where I have to make the following assessment. What else can we find out for? We don't have any resources. How do we handle this carefully? I would point out to Mr Verhoeven that I also want to be able to have this debate honestly with his colleagues. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u106	Are you going to a roundup too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u107	Yes, Mr President, I think I have had the most important points. I'll see if I haven't forgotten anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u108	In the meantime, I'll see if there's a need for a second term. I note that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr President, I think I have had the heart of my speech here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term. I give the floor to Mr Ziengs as the first speaker. Speaking time is 1 minute 30 seconds including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mr. Chairman. I've already made a lot of points during the interruptions. Fortunately, you gave me space for that. That enables me to now submit the motions that I have prepared in response to this debate. I'll start with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a difference of understanding about the use of digitization work by the National Archives;]] [[noting that scanning equipment has already been publicly tendered and that staff in the Tax Administration are ready to start work;]] [[Whereas the immediate reversal of the tendering process will entail high costs;]] [[noting that the National Archive uses framework contracts with market participants that expire for the purpose of tendering;]] [[noting that the conditions of social return, such as the use of existing personnel, the use of existing equipment, and the need for care and caution in dealing with important and sometimes sensitive national archives and archives, can also be taken into account in an open tender;]] [[calls on the Government, following the expiry of the framework contracts next year, to make public use of this scan work of the National Archives, where necessary under the conditions described above,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11490-185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u112	My second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas transparency and clarity on the conditions for tenders are of great importance for market participants;]] [[Whereas, furthermore, conditions such as the use of existing personnel, the use of existing equipment, costs already incurred and the need for care and caution in dealing with important and sometimes sensitive national archives and archives can be taken into account in an open tender;]] [[calls on the Government to conduct a market consultation with specialised companies in the procurement process well before the start of the procurement process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Ziengs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11490-186]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u113	I asked the VVD in the first term when it was satisfied with the Minister's reply. I am curious to see how the VVD Group is looking at that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u114	The question has indeed been asked. The Minister has made it clear that it will delay the one-year process if we now proceed directly to the issue of a tender. That has ultimately been the consideration of tabling motions in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u115	Mr. Chairman. This was a bit of a disappointing debate after all. We had really hoped that we would come to different results with this Minister for Education and Culture. She is not prepared to stop the tendering and wants to continue with what she is doing. She also explained why she wanted to. Fortunately, it has gradually introduced some nuances to the debate. For a moment it seemed that this minister always had much more confidence that the government could do anything better and that she felt that companies could hardly do this. I am therefore pleased with the Minister's nuance, because I really could not get away with that view. The question of whether it is more expensive or not has not really been answered. The Minister says she can't give us that information here in public. However, I would like to have confidential access to the documents. I would like to see whether it is true that it is more expensive in the market anyway. That's what the minister actually said, based on experience that there is. I want to know the numbers by scan. We may then be able to take advantage of this in subsequent debates, without, of course, bringing out the scan price directly. I need this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u116	I see that Mr Vos does not need a second term. I call Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr. Chairman. Politicians are not lobbyists, they're interest weighers. Today, too, we have had to weigh up different interests, such as the cultural historical importance of the archive being digitised, but also the importance of the opportunities for good entrepreneurship in our country and the importance of a small, compact government that keeps to its core tasks. We could look at those elements today. The Minister has put forward a large number of arguments to defend her decision to invest. As I said earlier, I am not sensitive to the argument that this is a complex task, with a great cultural historical importance. There are a lot of tasks that are complicated and important for the Netherlands but that are simply carried out by market players. So I didn't have to weigh that argument, because I'm not sensitive to it. The same applies to the argument of wasting taxpayers' money. I think that is a mistake, because then the government could take a certain step first and then say that turning it back should not happen because it is a waste of taxpayers' money. However, the Minister has also put forward some good arguments: the fact that she considers the government to be a single legal entity, the fact that the state attorney and inter-departmental committees say that the minister is right to make this choice and the fact that there is a state-wide approach in which you can choose to spend things between the different departments of the government. At the end of the day, the Minister made me sensitive. I am therefore glad that we can now look ahead rather than backwards. Yes, I am very much in favour of opening up the market after the expiry of the framework agreements, even if that would be more expensive and also if it would mean that foreign competitors might be carrying out a contract. That is the idea of contracting out. It can sometimes be more expensive; it can sometimes mean competing, but that is the idea of awarding fair contracts to entrepreneurs. This is also important for a Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u118	I'm suspending the meeting so that the Minister can review the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr. Chairman. I shall deal with the two motions tabled by Mr Ziengs. In the motion in part No. 185 the government is invited, following the expiry of the framework contracts next year, to make public the scanning work of the National Archives, where necessary under the conditions set out in the motion. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, I would like to say that it is not a question of 'where necessary', but of taking into account aspects such as care, use of existing equipment and caution in dealing with important and sometimes sensitive national archives. That was the essence of my speech. These elements should be at the heart of a procurement process. The conditions described are therefore of great importance. Mr Ziegs also describes these conditions. Once again, I attach great importance to my responsibility for securing and accessing archives and monitoring the coherence of those archives. The quality of the scans must be impeccable, because people around the world use them. I also consider it important that any additional costs should be proportionate. I heard Mr Verhoeven say that he is in favour of tendering, even if this entails additional costs. I'll go to the tender and see if the costs are proportionate. This includes the importance of keeping people at work in a region of the Netherlands where work is difficult to find. Those are the elements I want to take into account. However, I have to work that out. With these comments, I will leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u120	For the sake of clarity, if, with all the terms and conditions mentioned by the Minister, it does not come to an invitation to tender, can a passage be included with 'explain or apply'? In invitations to tender it is always referred to as 'comply or explain'. This means that it can be explained to the Chamber and submitted that the mandate is not given for the reason that the Minister is referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u121	Yes, because I can then let the Chamber know why these terms apparently didn't come out a good match. Mr Verhoeven said that market players can carry out complex contracts. I didn't say you couldn't. I have just said that within the current framework agreement, with the experience of recent times, it is not natural to expect that this complex task can be carried out. With the expiry of the framework contracts, there will be new opportunities for everyone, including for companies, under all the conditions I mentioned. In the motion in part No. 186 calls on Mr Ziegs to conduct a market consultation well before the start of the procurement process. I also leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber. A market consultation is possible, but I would add that the National Archives cannot provide all the information at such a consultation. This, of course, has to do with the whole principle of tendering. I'm not a specialist in that field. Mr Ziengs is. I am going to prepare this very precisely and carefully, together with my colleague from EZ. If too much information is given away, the whole idea of the tender is gone. The principle of equal treatment and transparency must not be violated. The public authorities may collect information as contracting authorities, but they may not provide information. I do not want to be responsible for any error in the procurement process. With that remark, and the remark that I want to do this very carefully and together with EZ, I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u122	For your information, I understand the Minister's explanation. The law also simply states that this information must not be shared in advance. I am concerned in particular with the feeling of mistrust among entrepreneurs, and the feeling is that advice has been put aside, so that at least in this market consultation we can clarify what is really at stake. That's what this market consultation is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u123	I say that wholeheartedly, because I am always in favour of the open conversation. It is up to the National Archives to indicate why one is going to contract, but not to give information that might give parties an advantage when signing up for the tender. That is a balance that we will have to find carefully. Mrs. Mulder asked for confidential information. I'm telling her she can see the confidential information I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you very much for this commitment. It just struck me a few times that the Minister appeared to be a champion for maintaining employment in the region. What about the Dutch Learning Plan Development Foundation, which may be leaving Enschede? Is she gonna stop that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u125	This is a new subject, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u126	It's funny that you're asking this question, Mrs Mulder. You were not concerned about employment in Limburg, but apparently you were concerned about employment in Twente. Well, that surprises me. I've answered three series of parliamentary questions about this. There too, Mrs Mulder, it is about customisation. We have chosen to do so, as in this case with the National Archives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u127	This subject is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-09-tweedekamer-7.u128	We will not vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday, because that is a special Tuesday, but on Tuesday, 22 September.
