ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister for Education, Culture and Science to the Upper House. I would remind the House that Tuesday 29 September 2015 at the beginning of the evening, the aforementioned legislative proposals were accepted by the House of Representatives. Through me, the First Chamber then reached the government's request that these incidental supplementary budgets be settled in this Chamber the same day. I have, however, found that there was no room for this regulation. After consulting the College of Seniors, I took the view, pursuant to Rule 56 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the First Chamber, on Wednesday 30 September that both of these legislative proposals are urgent and cannot be prepared in writing. I then decided on Thursday 1 October to add these legislative proposals to today's plenary agenda, subject to reservations. Today at the end of the morning, at the beginning of the afternoon, the OCW and Finance Committees submitted an oral final report in accordance with Rule 56 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the First Chamber, subject to a plenary debate. This oral final report was written in accordance with Rule 64, third paragraph. I give the floor to Mr Atsma. I'll call because Mr. Atsma is making a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister. It is indeed very special for me to be able to speak at this time and on this subject at this time, especially when I remember that a number of years ago I was allowed to speak in this Chamber, but also in a very different place. Then it was about the musk rats. Today we are discussing the proposal to purchase two paintings by Rembrandt, together with the French government. We consider these two paintings for convenience but as a common artwork, as a kind of two-unit. This gives a very special dimension to the debate over the last few weeks and perhaps also to this debate. In 1634 Rembrandt was commissioned to immortalize Maerten Soolmans and Oopjen Coppit. Rembrandt was relatively young then and it was also a very special assignment. Because actually those two made a great statement of it, at least before that time. A statement, because they let themselves be portrayed life-size. That occurred until then, but was actually only reserved for the European nobility, the summit of Europe. The fact that they did so at that time has undoubtedly led to a great deal of discussion. They made their statement shrouded in the latest fashion of that time and we can still see that statement with our own eyes. Rembrandt van Rijn worked on this. Maybe he also thought involuntarily: I like to cooperate, because I want to make a similar statement. Who knows? He received a large amount of money for this: about 500 guilders. Rembrandt, by lending himself to this assignment, made a very special gesture. Now that happened in the 80-year war, in which the Reformation caused a great change, also in art and culture, more often, but I would like to have said this here. 1634 was also a very special year for Rembrandt van Rijn, because he married Saskia van Uylenburgh. Saskia, from Leeuwarden, daughter of the mayor of Leeuwarden and her father was allowed to travel to The Hague as representatives of Friesland. That alone makes it special for me to be here today. The painting was realized. As I said, it was not cheap, namely 500 guilders. That is now a multiple of them: the two portraits together represent a value of EUR 80 million twice. That's a lot of money. I've been asked more often if that's not too much. That is not what this Chamber is about in its judgment. Some say it is too little, because the two paintings would certainly have much more value on the Dutch market. Others say that the paintings on the international market have a different value. Others say: it could have been that the Rothschild heirs could have given this unique heritage to the Netherlands. That didn't happen. It is important, however, that we talk here today about whether we think it is important that this unique cultural heritage, this twin-piece of two young spouses, can be removed from oblivion and come from the anonymity of a private environment and will soon become visible to the public. The CDA believes that this is extremely important. The answer to that question is, for our part, a full yes. Of course we don't just do that. I told you, the works of art are being hidden from oblivion. How many times have we seen both paintings here? Only in the 1950s they were shown alternately in Amsterdam and Rotterdam, after which the two paintings went back to France. Last week, the Minister for Finance indicated in the Lower House that, as far as he is concerned, funding is sound and sound. That also closes the books there. But the question is whether the books can really be closed, because will these paintings not create additional costs? That is the question I would like to put to the Minister. What's the status of maintenance? What does it mean that after so many years we get the paintings back, alternating in the Netherlands and France? Does the state of maintenance of the paintings mean any additional investments? If so, are those resources available? In the written discussion of the Heritage Act in this Chamber a few weeks ago, we also asked whether sufficient resources were available for the maintenance of cultural heritage from the Netherlands. The Minister responded positively to this in the note on the report. We are curious whether these considerations also include an assessment of whether the purchase of these works has been taken into account. Perhaps there are even more financial hooks and eyes that we cannot get out of the pieces at the moment. Think of the costs of transportation, security and insurance etc. In short, we ask the Minister to give some insight into this. If I say that the CDA Group is pleased that these works are being removed from oblivion, then of course the question arises as to whether, after the funding has been organized, we were able to learn about them last week and today we received the last pieces of this purchase, with this purchase, the budget for art purchases in the Netherlands has virtually been eroded. Furthermore, we would like to know from this minister how she acts, where appropriate, if there may be hope for more opportunities to acquire unique Dutch heritage. Imagine tomorrow coming out of St. Petersburg with the word that some of the Dutch masters are coming on the market, what are we going to do? It is certainly not imaginary that a new offer will be made at any time, especially if we know what amounts are being paid. This Chamber cannot judge the value of these paintings, certainly not looking at what is now being shown. We still have a few questions about the trial. Thank you, by the way, for sending the answers to the House of Representatives, which we received in a copy this morning. The process of the past few weeks and months has been described in step by step. What does this mean for the future? Has the Minister been able to take a learning moment out of it for himself? After all, a lot has happened. The Minister has also put a lot on paper of what has passed over the past few months. If I let everything work on me, it might be that the procedure doesn't immediately deserve the beauty prize. In short, our group is very curious to see what lessons have been learned from the process of recent months. Back to today's day. The documents have clearly shown that both works are to be exhibited together first in the Netherlands and then in France. At an earlier stage we understood that there was also a plan, especially in the Netherlands, to visit the regions with the works. Of course, that would be fantastic. Hence my question. The pieces talk about exhibition at the Rijksmuseum. Is that all you got? Or does the Minister perhaps mean the National Museums? I do not want to forget the South of the Netherlands, of course, because there are less national museums there. So, in general, is there still the possibility that these pieces will be shown in Dutch museums? We are very curious about this and we know that it also lives in the regions. Speaking of the Rijksmuseum, is there anything else about the initial commitment on the part of the Rijksmuseum regarding funding or support? It is now early October 2015. In 2018, Leeuwarden is the cultural capital of Europe. Does the Minister see possibilities, especially with the current discussion in mind, to link Rembrandt's work to the opening of Leeuwarden as the cultural capital? I am sure that both Rembrandt and his wife and his father-in-law would welcome that. The CDA Group is curious about the reaction. In general, we agree with the proposal submitted to this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u3	Mr Atsma, would you stand still for a moment? Congratulations on your maiden speech. When you took the oath in 1998 in the Lower House, you did so in the Fries. And again, you have shown that your Frisian roots are very close. Also on 9 June last, for the first time in a long time, this Westerlauwerian language sounded again in the Chamber, not only with you but also with Mr Ten Hoeve. Luckily for us and the current ruler, you have today spoken your maiden speech in Dutch. Otherwise, I fear, we could not have given all the finesses in your contribution the attention they deserve. I think we had only understood the name of Leeuwarden in the Frisian language and that it might have escaped us for the rest, except, of course, Mr Ten Hoeve, because he understands that language. Mr Atsma, allow me briefly to outline some of your background. In 1978 you began your active life as a journalist in the North High. You wrote for regional media, such as the Friesch Dagblad and the Nieuwsblad van het Noorden, but also for the national media, such as ANP and NOS. After a number of years, you decided to become your own boss and set up your own public relations and organizational agency. Your active political career began in 1991, when you joined the Provincial States in Friesland. You were chairman of the CDA for seven years. In 1998 you descended from the high north to The Hague and became a member of the House of Representatives. Here too, you were part of the group board. In terms of content, you dealt with sport, agriculture, food quality, media and the Wadden Sea. Your great interest in these subjects led to you being appointed Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment in the Rutte I cabinet in October 2010. In that capacity, you concluded a governance agreement on more efficient water management, strengthened the Afsluitdijk (Afsluitdijk) you didn't do it yourself but let you do it and put out a programme for climate initiatives at a decentralised level. Another achievement was the creation of the Delta Water Safety and Freshwater Supply Act. After the fall of the Rutte I cabinet, you became Chairman of the Productschap voor Vee en Vlees. In addition to the fact that you have fulfilled a large number of social management positions, you have always been committed to a great passion of yours: cycling. I don't think there are many MPs who can say they were Chief D'Equipe five times at the Olympics. Every year, as former chairman of the Koninklijke Nederlandsche Wielren Union, you get to tie top riders for the cycling round in your home town Surhuisterveen. You seem to have an almost endless source of energy. I am therefore confident that this will not be any different in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber. I wish you every success in this, and I shall suspend the sitting to allow colleagues to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. Here in this Chamber we are today discussing the intended joint purchase of two Rembrandt paintings by the Netherlands and France. We're not doing that until today. This was not meant to be the case at first. Last Tuesday, after the debate on this matter was completed in the Lower House, an additional meeting between the group chairmen, an extra seniors' meeting, took place in the First Chamber in the evening. What was the intention? They wanted to coat this Rembrandt deal that same evening through the First Chamber. Last week's haste is extremely remarkable, for two reasons. First of all, it says something about the priorities, about the priorities of the advocates of this Rembrandt deal. What about in the First Chamber, for example, with the imminent law countering wedding coercion? The PVV Group has requested accelerated treatment of that law. However, it did not come because the Committee on Security and Justice would prefer to dovetail with this for a while. In other words, matters such as marriage control and paedophilia are not a priority in this Chamber, but when it is two expensive...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u5	What exactly does Mr Kops mean by the word "suffer"? I believe that we are looking carefully at the legislative proposals here in the First Chamber and we are making a contribution to them, and we are waiting for a response from the ministers. That's not like fooling around.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u6	Of course, I'm talking about my own words; I'm saying what I want. I can explain it to you later. Apparently, people here in this room are rushing into a Rembrandt deal. Okay. But when it comes to a law to prevent marriage, to help underage married girls, to make it harder for paedophiles to bring their underage bride here, it doesn't seem to be rushing. I made that comparison. Choices are made in this Chamber, but those are not the choices of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u7	Do I understand from this that the PVV says that, as we do with this procedure, which has been hasty in the eyes of my group, we should do that in the Upper Chamber for several procedures? Does the PVV suggest that we should pass more careless legislative proposals through the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u8	I said what I said. I've highlighted priorities. I said that many parties set the wrong priorities in the Chamber. That's what I said, and that's what I'm sticking with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u9	I heard what Mr Kops said. Then I asked him a question, but I do not see that I am getting an answer. Moreover, I have also heard that Mr Kops attached a qualification as'suffen' to it. I find that a strange qualification, because I do not think we are fooling around with legislative proposals here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u10	Fine. I said, with a law such as the Anti-Marriage Law, no haste is made, but when it comes to two expensive paintings, everything has to give way. That says enough. Secondly, last Tuesday's haste is remarkable because at that time it was not clear at all what the deal would look like. Only a day later, on Wednesday, it became known that the Netherlands and France would buy the paintings together. Originally the plan was to bring both paintings to the Rijksmuseum in the Netherlands. The export licence for that was almost complete. In the meantime, the Minister was in deep secrecy in consultation with the French, as has been shown. Interesting to know is exactly what that reflection meant. What did it matter and what did it actually do? Maybe it's interesting to get more information about that. Perhaps that information can be used in the future as diplomatic teaching material because the original plan to bring both paintings to the Netherlands despite secret consultation with the French simply failed. So it didn't even work! The paintings become the property of the Netherlands and France. Moreover, it is remarkable that the Rembrandt deal actually seems to be around today, before the First Chamber has ruled on it. Isn't that crazy? Last Wednesday there were reports that the Rembrandts would soon come to the Netherlands to be exhibited in the Rijksmuseum. Isn't all that premature? Isn't it much more sensible and democratic to wait for the results of the vote in the First Chamber? Following last Tuesday's extra senior meeting, the President of the Chamber sent a letter to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and to the Minister for Finance. It stated that "the vast majority of the group chairmen have indicated that their political groups will, as they see fit, support the legislative proposals."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u11	"Looks like it" is in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u12	Apologies. What's that supposed to mean? It means: 'Dear ministers, go ahead with your behind-the-scenes deal', because the final result of the vote does not have to wait for you; with a majority it will be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u13	I would point out that the President's letter was written with the agreement of the group chairmen present at the time, even though everyone may differ as to whether the supplementary budget should be accepted. Your group chairman also agreed that the President should write such a letter, although she made it clear that the PVV was not in favour of the proposal. You should not say retroactively that the PVV did not agree to the letter, because she did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u14	Fine. In any case, the letter sent a signal to the ministers: go behind the scenes and continue with that deal. This has actually turned this debate into a non-debate. After all, the deal is already in place. All the more interesting is the question of what the Minister will do if the Upper House does not agree to the expectations. The two paintings by Rembrandt together cost 160 million euros. As mentioned above, the original plan was to bring both paintings to the Netherlands, with the State counting down one half, 80 million, and the Rijksmuseum the other half. Half each, that's what the thought was. However, now that the Netherlands and France want to buy the paintings together, that idea of each half is apparently nothing left. The Rijksmuseum suddenly doesn't want to make a financial contribution anymore. How does the Minister feel about that? Isn't she misguided by the Rijksmuseum? What does she think of the broken promise of the Rijksmuseum? Does she not think that the Rijksmuseum still has to keep its promise that it is trying to raise half of the amount, now EUR 40 million? The bottom line is that the Rijksmuseum really wants to have the paintings, but when the point comes to a close it doesn't seem to want to stick out for them. There is no doubt that these two beautiful paintings are unmatched. But that you can't have everything in life is of course also a fact. 80 million euros are intended to be spent on this, while, for example, care for the elderly is being cut again and again. Politics is a matter of making choices, we all know that, but these are not the choices of the PVV. Where most other parties opt for an elite, expensive deal around two paintings, the PVV chooses for our elders. In addition, the PVV finds the majority of the population on its side. It shows once again how big the gap is between politics and the population. It's a good thing the PVV is still here. Politicians who are in favour of this expensive elite Rembrandt deal can actually be compared to small children in a candy store, children in a candy store who just want to have everything they want to buy. But, of course, that's not how life works. You can't always buy everything. You can't always have everything. You can only spend money once and once it's gone. Moreover, the fact that we are talking about EUR 80 million in taxpayers' money, money from the citizens whose majority is not waiting for this Rembrandt deal, makes this whole issue all the more poignant. The PVV, the common sense party, will therefore vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u15	Mr. Chairman. Four weeks ago, as a matter of urgency and in the deepest secret, the Dutch parliamentary group chairmen met in the Mauritshuis on the initiative of auctioneer-magician Alexander Pechtold from Wageningen. That was a unique event. You'd think it was a major flood disaster or the biggest earthquake the population in Groningen ever suffered, but no, it was about the purchase of paintings. De Volkskrant painted it visually. Almost all group leaders told with red butts how they had prevented two Rembrandt paintings from ending up in the bedroom of an oil sheikh or a Chinese billionaire. They were glowing proudly on all the channels. According to various sources, a number of group chairmen were unaware that Minister Bussemaker had already sent a letter to her French colleague on 14 July last, which discussed a completely different option, namely joint procurement. President Sanders of the Rembrandt Association confirms that he and his colleagues did not know what Bussemaker was doing, see De Telegraaf of 1 October 2015. I have some questions for the Minister. To prevent them from being answered, I numbered them. I would like answers to all the questions. My first question is: were the group chairmen and, in particular, Mr Pechtold at that time aware of the other course that the Minister had taken three months earlier? What happened after that, can't be described with a pen, although De Telegraaf copied it on the front page: "Rembrandt-misser Bussemaker. Minister ruins art deal." Last Tuesday the debate was held in the Lower House. The incredible thing happened. There was no debate about what one knew about: one painting, two paintings, two half paintings, the level of the financial contribution of third parties such as the Rijksmuseum? The "crazy horse sickness" had beaten around itself, the red asses swelled further up. The ministers had even asked for this to be dealt with as a hammerpiece. Unbelievable. That brings the 50PLUS Group to the second question. Were the two paintings valued or considered by experts? Has the price been negotiated over the past few months, or was it bowing to the poor Rothschild family, who had undoubtedly chosen the market approach: it is what the fool gives for it? In this context, I would like to mention the publication of art dealer and art historian Jan Six in the Volkskrant last Saturday. He asks questions about the legality of the asking price of 160 million. "There is no reason at all to assume that there were rows of non-European buyers ready for "our" two Rembrandt portraits. When a politician with public money pushes a purchase under the guise that is urgently offered, because otherwise the works disappear very quickly to a faraway country, I know I lied to myself," says art dealer and historian Jan Six. After the House of Representatives had accepted the legislative proposals at about 18.00 hours, the ministers of OCW and Finance made an attempt to have it dealt with by the First Chamber the same evening and to have it voted. That should have happened without the First Chamber knowing about the treatment in the Lower Chamber, without any committee handling and without it being on the agenda. This can only be seen as contempt for the First Chamber, a Chamber which, as a reflection institution, has the task of monitoring legislation. As our President-in-Office of the Council, you were right to inform the two leaders by letter that there was no room for this in the Rules of Procedure. That is why I have the following third question to these rulers. How could you have tried to push this proposal through the First Chamber without any preparation? Do you regret this on second thought? Do you apologize for this? I'd like to hear a clear yes or no. Then there is the question of funding. There is still no clarity about that today. First we read that the Rijksmuseum would contribute half. At that point, it was 80 million. After that, it had to be half, so only 40 million left. Other art lovers also received uncoherent messages. In the Volkskrant of 1 October last, Minister Dijsselbloem says he expects the Rijksmuseum and funds such as the Association Rembrandt to celebrate the 12.5 million they have announced earlier. That was only a few days ago. The board president of the Rembrandt Association, Martijn Sanders, says that his promised contribution of 5 million is gone. In De Telegraaf of 1 October last. Minister Dijsselbloem contradicts himself again. I quote: 'Minister Dijsselbloem thinks that the Rijksmuseum should make a contribution, even symbolic'. It's rare for a finance minister to be so guilty of quacking. The minister also shows, without spending a penny, that he has made Jan Steen's household his property. This morning the answer appeared to a series of questions put by the Dutch MP Henk Krol. On the question of whether the directors had foreseen that a problem would arise with the raising of funds, if the two paintings were not acquired, they answered in full yes. Our question is therefore: why was that not announced last Tuesday in the House of Representatives? Why did this information seem to have been withheld? My next, fifth question is: how should we see the financial contribution of the Rijksmuseum, the Rembrandt Association and the others? Is that half of the total amount now reduced to 80 million, the 12.5 million mentioned by Minister Dijsselbloem, or is it a symbolic contribution of, for example, €1? Surely the First Chamber has the right to know the precise content of the obligations to be fulfilled before it votes on them? Finally, some comments on the purchase itself. Of course everyone is happy to see another beautiful Rembrandt in the Netherlands. The question is whether the price is not too high and whether it is the right priority. The majority of the Dutch population does not seem to support this purchase. The politicians with the red asses are already used to the fact that the Binnenhof is completely alienated from the citizens, so this time extra can be added. 50PLUS reasoning as ordinary citizens would do. If one sees a beautiful, special, exceptional painting, but one has too tight a budget for, for example, good care, what would the citizen give priority to? Would that most expensive purchase ever come about? 50PLUS is in line with the average citizen and does not support this budget change. After this great failed circus, the initiators are allowed to shut down as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u16	Madam President. For the Victory Boogie Woogie, the fraction of the SGP only needed one word, the word no. With a special Van Gogh we might have come up with two words: now perhaps. In the case of a Rembrandt, the SGP tends, subject to the answer of its questions, to one word: yes. Why? First of all, we look very closely at the object that may be purchased. That looks really good: a gentleman and a lady, dressed nicely. We also like the colour of the clothes, although the gentleman has forgotten to wear black stockings. But none of that is decisive. Much more importantly, the SGP is positive about art that remains within certain limits, and about artists who make true art with the gifts and talents given to them by God. Those artists have been there over the centuries, some of which deserve our special attention. That includes Rembrandt. His paintings have an unprecedented beauty. Often they are biblical scenes or motifs with a strong symbolic value. In addition, his works of art have left something that lasts time. This is about timeless, universal beauty. The question then arises as to whether the costs outweigh that intrinsic value. The honest answer to that is, of course, no. It's about amounts exceeding comprehension. But in this case there is also a real value. In other words: the purchase leads to an asset that could be made again in the worst case. That is not a beckoning perspective, but a realistic view of reality. That aspect also helps to be positive about this acquisition. In addition, the ministers are making a shift within their respective budgets, which ultimately provides for cover. Moreover, the SGP still has questions about this. Can the Minister give absolute clarity on the maximum amount that can be spent? Can we conclude that if the amount is exceeded, the purchase will not take place? Will the Minister also undertake that, if the purchase price is lower, the budget of OCW will be used first, so that the so-called cash drawer is not applied or as little as possible? Can the Minister confirm that the funds will only be made available for this specific purpose? In other words, if money is left, will it be properly withdrawn? Will the Minister promise that the Court will be re-reported how the final funding went? Of course, the question remains whether there are renovation costs associated with this purchase. If so, how much and by whom is that paid? Will the Minister, having been informed by the media that the private parties are withdrawing at the moment, still try to get money from the private sector? The members of the SGP Group look forward to the answers with interest, in the hope that the SGP can reach a final positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. We would almost forget today that Mr Atsma made his maiden speech. I congratulate him most warmly. And although he did his story with motivation, it might have been more fun if it had been about another subject. I hope that sometime some of the cycling can be heard in his story. Who knows, when we talk about sports here. I'll start with a poem; we're talking about art. It's the painter: Rembrandt Son of Harmen of Rhine! The color wizard, who could pull more than Tulip's From muscle and body fat, from doctor's hat and poov' government Decorating lace, where they offer to Sacrifice their stand, their pride and self-esteem. This is one of the thirteen poems written by Vestdijk in 1955 by order of the Ministry of Education, Arts and Sciences in honour of Rembrandt's 350th birthday. There are differences of opinion about what art is, but in Rembrandt's works we notice that this is different. Mr Atsma already mentioned it: in 1956 the paintings we are talking about today were shown in the Netherlands in public for the last time. At that time, and even now, most Dutch thought that Rembrandt's paintings belong to our national cultural heritage and that, if possible, they should be seen by everyone. That is also the view of the PvdA Group. We therefore fully understand that, as unique works by Rembrandt, such as the two wedding portraits, are offered for sale by private individuals, it is considered whether they can be purchased by national museums, with or without the support of the government. We understand that this can be achieved with the current intention to purchase. For the PvdA Group, it is more important that the works are exhibited publicly than who owns the works. As a PvdA group, we have taken note of the fact that the majority of the group chairmen of the Lower House have made an appeal to the Cabinet to make it financially possible to purchase the paintings of Oopjen Coppit and Maerten Soolmans, and that the necessary decision to amend the budget can count on broad support in the Lower House. We thank the government for the documents that have been sent, including today's documents. The questions we have are about the consequences of the intention to buy the two paintings, and about the release of money from the state budget. I'll start with that last one. We are talking today about two incidental supplementary budgets, that of amending the budget states of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Finance. Today we have seen additional documents on this subject. As far as the former is concerned, a change of 80 million is mentioned in the incidental supplementary budget under the heading "Procurement: policy research, evaluation and knowledge base." Can the Minister indicate the connection this qualification has with the acquisition of the paintings? The incidental supplementary budget amending the budget statement of the Ministry of Finance refers to a cash slide of 12 million, which is linked to ICT expenditure to be realised in 2016 instead of 2015. Can the Minister state what this means for the 2016 budget presented on Prinsjesdag? We have a more general question about handling the cash drawer. A cash liability system allows the intertemporal shift with budget. In the view of the PvdA Group, this budgetary technique must be avoided. Can the Minister state what the criteria are for handling a cash drawer? Is it conceivable that there is a delay in policy without a cash drawer? And if so, is there a danger that there will be no stable line in the use of cash slides and that an important budgetary principle will be put under pressure? As regards the financing of the purchase, we have questions about the use of possible future dividends from state participations, which are used as partial cover. Firstly, my group is surprised that such information cannot be derived from the budgetary documents and the explanations. But we are also questioning the course of action. Do we understand that dividends from state participations are anticipated, which may and may not be available until 2016 at the earliest? How does this relate to the cash liability system I have just mentioned? Is this practice in the Government's view in line with the Compatibility Act? And if so, on what parts does the government base itself on? Is it actually usance that funds are already being released on the basis of quarterly figures of certain State participations? Then what happens next year when it becomes clear that this dividend forecast will not come true or that other holdings will pay a lower dividend than expected? We are curious about the Minister's answers to these questions. Our next point concerns the contribution of private individuals and funds for the acquisition of the paintings. In the variant in which the Empire would buy the works together with the Rijksmuseum, it was explicitly intended that private parties and funds would also make a financial contribution. In fact, the director of the Rijksmuseum has even suggested that he could get the full amount out of the private market if he had sufficient time to do so. The Dutch government is now asking for 80 million to be made available for the Dutch part of the purchase costs by means of an occasional supplementary budget amendment. During the past few months, work was initially done in relative silence to prepare for the purchase of the paintings. This has changed when the director of the Rijksmuseum spoke publicly about the fact that the paintings might become available and that the Rijksmuseum was interested in it. What influence has the situation in recent weeks, including the media actions of the director of the Rijksmuseum, the fact that the paintings are shared by France and the Netherlands and the government's intention to make 80 million available for the purchase, on any willingness of individuals and funds to contribute to the cost of the purchase? How's the Minister looking at this? Are there any funds and individuals who would like to contribute? Funds from the National Museumsal Purchasing Fund are used to finance the works. We have understood that there is now only 4 million left in the budget. The PvdA Group asks the Minister to explain how this approach fits into national cultural policy. What risks do we run now that the funds available in the national museumsal purchase fund are, in our view, severely limited? Is our assumption that this means that the ability of the government to contribute to the purchase of other works is now severely limited? We understand that the purchase process has accelerated rapidly when it became public that one of the options would be that the Rijksmuseum would buy both paintings together with the Dutch State. It was reported that the sale of both paintings to the Netherlands would be considered an undesirable option by the French and that the French threatened to ban exports. We understand that this has initiated a process whereby a joint purchase of France and the Netherlands was assessed by our government in the short term as the only option to exhibit the works in the Rijksmuseum and to avoid both paintings being purchased by wealthy individuals. What we do not understand is that a quick agreement with the selling party was the only way to prevent this. If France were to block the export of the works to the Netherlands, would that not be a bump for other private buyers? We ask the Minister to explain the situation on this point. I come to our final point. An appointment has been made with the Louvre to exhibit these wedding portraits alternately in the Rijksmuseum and in the Louvre. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, leading paintings and other works of art should be allowed to switch locations more often, in order to make art easily accessible and accessible to as many European citizens as possible. In the debate in the Lower House, the Minister stated that she was in favour of agreements to exchange works of art over and over again. What specific actions is the Minister going to take to actually achieve this? We are having a special debate today on the purchase of two special paintings. It looks like these will soon be public. We look forward to answering our questions about the process so far and about the state contribution to the purchase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u18	Madam President. We are dealing today with two supplementary budgets, two incidental amendments. An important task of the First Chamber is to review legislative proposals. Our first question to answer is what about the quality of these laws. There is very little to be said of this, with regard to the technique of budgetary laws. It's properly covered. I don't have any more difficult questions about that. That's insane. As far as the first task of our Chamber is concerned, to assess the quality of legislation, it cannot be that. $80 million is being spent. That's right, with all the cash slides from top to bottom. You could spend that $80 million on something else. That is a political consideration. On the other hand, this question has been explicitly answered by an overwhelming majority. The constitutional views of the VVD on the relationship between the Second and First Chambers are well known. We do not see any reason to deviate from the view expressed on the other side after that political consideration as to whether we as a Chamber, as a representative of the population, have 80 million for this. That is the position of the VVD Group. Since I have used very little time, I have the opportunity to make two very brief comments. I agree with Mr Nagel, but in some other terms. It wasn't happy. The Minister must not write a letter again on Tuesday afternoon, asking whether the Chamber is still in agreement with the supplementary budget on the same evening. That is a problem in that sense that we cannot do our job seriously. I cannot explain to anyone that we can seriously assess a supplementary budget of 80 million within an hour. That's a wrong picture. We didn't. The Finance Committee has also refused to do so. Apart from the question of whether it was possible under the regulations, it is also not serious in substance. The call from the VVD Group to the Minister is not to do so again. Emergency is urgent. We can always look at that, but this wasn't serious. This is not how we can do our job. So much for the procedure. One final comment on the 80 million. It's certainly true that you can spend it differently. In my own environment I have a kind of mini-Maurice the Dog. I believe that the PVV and 50PLUS are always very careful about this, to know exactly whether the people find A or B. I don't need Maurice the Dog for that. I have a mother of age, who generally says exactly what Maurice the Dog says. She also took the same view on this subject. Those are always very interesting discussions, because my mother is not quite without verbal skill. I didn't get it from a stranger. She knew how to explain that to me. She's not as verbal as the PVV representative, but it came close. The advantage is that I can say something back and that she listens too. That is also a difference between my mother and me and what I do notice here in the Chamber with some spokesmen. They don't listen. So I say, Mother, how long do you think you can finance with 80 million care? That's a lot of money, my mom says. Yeah, but you can't afford half a day's care, once. With all the words about choosing the elderly, it would be nice if we kept a bit in mind what we are talking about: about not half a day of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u19	Should Mr De Grave not speak with a little more respect about his mother and listen to his mother?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u20	I think I spoke very respectfully of her, but it's also very nice that my mother listens when someone says something back. That is also an important part of good contact. That's how she raised me. I listen to her and she listens to me, too. That is why it is right for Mr Nagel to listen to my argument. With all the footage that we can save care for the elderly, we're not talking about half a day of care. That's to put it slightly into perspective. It has also been rightly pointed out that the money is not gone. We get a very valuable asset in return, which can possibly be sold again in circumstances. The VVD is not such a fan of speculating with paintings, but that's different from spending it. I'm gonna put this relativization on the table. Everyone has the right to make their own decision. We have taken the constitutional position I have indicated. There is nothing wrong with the quality of these supplementary budgets. With regard to the substantive consideration, we follow the opinion given on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. The arts are of all times. Singing, music, dance, visual arts, they've been around since time immemorial. In preparing this debate and the stories I heard about the Rembrandts, I had to think of a text by De Dijk: a man only knows what he is missing when she is not there; then he knows what he is missing. I thought that was appropriate, because we didn't know about the existence of these paintings either, until the Rothschild family told us to sell them. Now it turns out they're very unique. I also found it appropriate because these two cannot be separated, although there are also stories that they might prefer to be separated after all these years. Rembrandt is a master of his time, but he himself died in poverty; not least because of his debauchery, for he also knew a great deal of wealth. The amount paid for his paintings today, he could never have dreamed of it. His paintings are scattered all over the world. Many of them have ended up in private collections, but fortunately there is also an important number in Dutch hands. That many of his paintings are scattered around the world and some in private collections, we don't often think about that. It would also be really impossible to retrieve all paintings, etchings and drawings back to the Netherlands. But sometimes an opportunity comes along. An opportunity to get two interesting paintings back in national possession. And not only that, but also to take the painting out of that private collection and show it to the entire audience. Let me first say something about the purchase of these Rembrandts. It was a wonderful opportunity and it is a good thing that politics has worked to make this work. Still, it's and it's still a lot of money. A lot of money. I understand people say the money could have been spent better. With cuts in, for example, care, social workshops and access to justice, there are sufficient targets for which money is needed. And not least the cuts that have been made in the cultural sector, where EUR 200 million has been cut: unprecedented amounts for this sector. It makes our group curious to see how quickly the Minister has made money available for this purchase. If I have to, I can. France chooses an even more interesting road. The national bank pays for the purchase of the painting for the full amount of 80 million euros. Banque de France has a game for this and in this way regularly contributes to purchases. I assume the Minister of Finance is pulling away white from the idea that DNB would make a substantial reservation for this type of purchase. DNB also has a jar, but with a few tons that is very thin. Did the minister speak to DNB? What opportunities have been explored to obtain funding? Has this option been viewed? The Minister of Finance has now promised the House of Representatives to make every effort to reduce the contribution from the government. The House of Representatives agreed with a maximum of 80 million, as it assumed that two paintings would be purchased. My group has the question of how much the Minister would have asked for for the purchase of one painting. Would she have asked for 80 million? If so, why? At the beginning of this year it was known that France did not have enough money to buy both paintings. France contacted the Netherlands and investigated the possibility to purchase the paintings together, although the Rothschild family had indicated that she preferred the paintings in the Rijksmuseum. On 14 July the French together with the minister wrote a letter with the plan to keep both paintings in both countries. The Rothschild family reacts reluctantly and indicates that the Rijksmuseum has already said that it is going to buy the paintings, but that it has no objection to the plan. That's how the deal gets worked out. The fact is that the Minister already knew that the Rijksmuseum wanted to purchase the paintings. It seems that the Rijksmuseum sees the mood at the time and approaches the group chairman of D66. It quickly gathers the chairmen of the political groups and seeks support for half of the purchase to be financed by the Empire. He gets that kind of support. Everything will be taken out of the closet on 29 September to allow the Second and First Chambers to decide that day. The French have the money round, they say. The threat of selling to Chinese or Arabs is also addressed. That made my group uncomfortable. The Rothschild family had already indicated that she preferred the Rijksmuseum. If that preference was there, the political will was there and the House of Representatives had already agreed, wouldn't the Rothschild family have agreed to reflect on a week? This banker's family really knows the blows of the whip and knows how political relations lie. Of course, it would have agreed to a proper annexation in Parliament. If not the Minister of Finance. He did not abandon his wish for an urgent debate in the First Chamber until he promised that we would agree informally. My group did not make that commitment. The reason for this was very simple: we did not get a sound explanation. The First Chamber is a "chambre de réflexion." If we allow ourselves to be hung up, we run the risk that this reflection will not be done properly. That pressure was very inappropriate and caused us irritation. This reflection is necessary, because after the agreement in the Lower House all kinds of stories came out. We have just received the facts. There are still questions before this Chamber as well. The Minister knew the process of the Rijksmuseum to acquire money. Then France knocks on her door. At no time has she considered telling the Rijksmuseum that she was also working on an interesting option. Did the Minister hope to obtain both paintings in this way? Apparently she calculated that she would have lost 80 million anyway: at best for two paintings, at worst for one. The Minister therefore knew about the Rothschild family's negotiations with Mr Pijbes. Can the Minister state clearly that she has not been in contact with Mr Pijbes? Did she not inform Mr Pijbes of her purchase plans following the letter from the Rothschild family? Has Mr Pijbes not approached the Minister for the EUR 80 million? After all, it was already difficult to get the full 160 million. Has he not approached the Minister at an earlier stage to see if the Empire wanted to contribute to the acquisition? The cabinet has a purchase fund, which is now almost exhausted. Didn't Mr. Pijbes know that like no other? What will the Minister do with the upcoming requests for the remaining 4 million from the purchase fund? There are also important requests that we do not want to miss. The letter from the Rothschild family was bizarre. It did not say that the purchase of the Rijksmuseum would not continue, but the family also wanted to sell to the Netherlands and France if they would put the same amount on the table at the same rate. In short: Rothschild would sell to the Empire and France or to the Empire and the Rijksmuseum. The family preferred the latter. Last Tuesday there were rumors that France would not accept the other deal. What exactly happened during those last few days? Did France threaten to withdraw the export licence? Why was there so much emergency last Tuesday? I think I'm reading something like that in the facts. The Minister states that this method would make it possible to export the paintings. The paintings should be sold by the end of the year. France had the money, the minister had the politics at her side: why this haste? What are the exact conditions of the permit? Is it true that the conditions state that, after the purchase, France can force the Minister to make an assessment and then decide to buy back the work of art, usually at a much lower price than the buyer paid for it? This has happened in the past. If this is correct, how does the Minister guarantee that this will not happen now? What if one of them wants to sell the painting? What rights do they have? The rush raises the question what the House of Representatives would have done if she knew she wouldn't get the two paintings. Apparently there was a reason to fear that this information would lead to a negative decision of the House of Representatives. Did France threaten to withdraw the export licence? Did the Minister know last Tuesday that it would only be one painting? Why was we asked for EUR 80 million instead of EUR 40 million? Did Pijbes make it clear to the minister that there would be no private money? Has the Minister asked Pijbes to come up with half the amount and, if so, what was the answer? In the letter of amendment that has just arrived, I see a cash drawer of 12 million on ICT expenditure from the Tax Administration. These are expenditures that will not be made in 2015 but in 2016. What isn't being done this year? In the context of the law that we deal with after this supplementary budget, additional money may be needed. I come to the lessons we need to learn from this. There's a lot to learn. The lesson goes a little further than the lesson for the trial. The lesson is also about how we deal with our cultural heritage. I told you before, there are several private collections that contain a Rembrandt. It is not unthinkable that such an opportunity should occur again, perhaps with another Dutch master. I ask the Minister to develop a protocol for this purpose, which also includes the method of financing. Is the Minister prepared to develop such a procedure? Soon the two will come to the Netherlands, bought with tax money. What can we do to ensure that the Dutch can view these two paintings? Maybe it's not such a good idea to hang them next to the Night's Watch. There the rows are so thick that it is already difficult to see that huge painting, let alone these two. My group is still in favour of the Dutch being able to view the paintings for free. They've paid enough for it by tax. Another question is still pressing. We are talking about cultural heritage going outside our country. Rothschild bought the paintings in 1877 and left the country. The Rembrandt Association was founded in protest of the poor policy of the then government. This association has worked and is committed to preserving the cultural heritage. Soon we will be discussing the bill on our heritage. I am sure that we will also include this issue in the legal process. Nevertheless, I would like to make an absolute comparison with the law and the way in which we are going to regulate it in the forthcoming law. If we had bought the Rembrandts then we would have had a very different discussion today. When does the government assume its responsibilities and when does it leave it to local politics or private initiatives? I refer to Dalfsen, where this spring a complete gravefield was discovered; the largest in Europe and unique in its kind. The field should be further explored but could completely turn the knowledge about the dough beds upside down. The municipality and province are now the farmers themselves. In exchange for exhibitions, they try to get the money together. Perhaps they sell something, born of need, here and there, because the cabinet says it's a find in Dalfsen and therefore Dalfsen's responsibility. Unique finds can therefore leave the country again. Maybe in 100 years we'll get a chance to buy back one of the funnel cups. My group therefore expects the Minister to draw her lessons and look again at the responsibility of the government for the protection of cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Atsma on his maiden speech. It's good to meet you again in this room. Legislation is usually general in nature, aimed at standardising or structuring social behaviour or public trade. By nature it does not apply to just one person, except for a few laws of approval around the royal family. In general we are critical of what the Germans describe as Einzellgesetzgebung. For Maerten Soolmans and Oopjen Coppit my group would like to make an exception for this time. Their images have a special artistic and art-historical value; I do not need to explain this here anymore. These man-high portraits of Rembrandt fill a gap in Dutch public art property. My group supports the efforts made by the Rijksmuseum, a large part of the group chairmen in the Lower House and the cabinet to bring the paintings back into the public domain, preferably the Dutch public domain. Both portraits show the well-being of Amsterdam citizens in the Golden Age, expressing an important historical development in patriotic history: the republic of citizens who are immortalized, as was previously reserved only for the highborn nobility. In the First Chamber we generally do not judge art and individual works of art, but when it comes to cultural policy and certainly budgetary legislation. We can justify the government's desire to free up budgetary space to bring special works of art into the Dutch public domain. We shall therefore support the supplementary budget proposals before us. EUR 80 million is, of course, a great deal of money, which could occasionally be spent on other social goals, but art and culture are not subordinate to those other purposes in advance. On the contrary, as far as I am concerned, a government that maintains and cherishes national and historical art heritage contributes directly to the well-being of the people. My group therefore appreciates the efforts made to get both Rembrandts to the Netherlands. Whether it all went equally well and conveniently, is verse two. My group seems to be primarily in favour of the House of Representatives. He also asked for an overview of the facts in this area. During this debate, the Registrar put this fact sheet in my hands. So I haven't been able to see it anymore. It is therefore possible that I could have provided the Minister with an answer by reading a single question I am asking. For us now, what exactly is going to happen to the required budgetary space is particularly relevant. I hope that the Minister will be able to clarify this. From its letter of 30 September, it can be inferred that the option of the acquisition of both portraits by the Rijksmuseum, with the support of the Dutch State for half of that amount, is definitely off the table. In that context, I still have the question of exactly what was the legal status of the "society', and I quote the "principle agreement', which the owners had with the Rijksmuseum. Apparently, that agreement wasn't binding enough to hold the family in question. Or could a legal obligation actually be derived from it if we had made a case? In its letter, the Minister makes it clear that both States will acquire France and the Netherlands, each for half of the purchase amount. It seems that the government has been deterred from an all-inclusive approach to stop the French from getting in their heads, perhaps in order not to run the risk that an exit ban would still be imposed on the seventeenth-century couple. Moreover, the Minister's letter is not very clear on this, and I shall put it mildly. What is the consequence of the fact that the two states are still building up together? The joint letter of both cultural ministers of 14 July mentioned the possibility that the Rijksmuseum and the Louvre would each acquire a portrait, under the condition that the portraits were exhibited together, alternately in both museums. Does it matter that there is no longer talk of museums, but of both states? Are the contracts still concluded by both museums, or directly by the governments? And if so, why? Does the joint acquisition which the Minister now writes about mean that France and the Netherlands jointly acquire the ownership of both portraits, rather than each one? I assume that the words of 14 July, but also of 30 September, were deliberately chosen. That is why I think an explanation is appropriate. In the letter I also missed passages about the common exhibition policy. Is it about periods of five years, or shorter? How is it ensured that the portraits are exhibited in optimal condition and brought by restoration and cleaning? I read here and there that experts are already concerned about this, also because of the different traditions in France and the Netherlands. With a lot of drum roll it was announced that the portraits would hit all the provincial capitals once they were acquired; yes, also Leeuwarden. Can we really forget that, or are they going to go off with all the French "régions"? And is that even wise? After all, that will be a costly journey. I wonder whether this is a real expectation at all in terms of the condition of the portraits and the costs involved. I would also like a response from the Minister. Last week, with our agreement, the President wrote a letter which allowed the government to trust that the supplementary budget proposals would make it here. That is why there has already been an action and that agreement has been obtained from the owners for the construction of a joint acquisition and alternate exhibition. The President of the French Republic and our own Prime Minister have even solemnly confirmed the agreements in New York. This treatment, however urgent, comes a bit like mustard after the meal, although new questions have been raised. It's no different. Modesty didn't grace the young couple of Amsterdam's bridesmaids from almost 400 years ago, according to their image, but for this time the First Chamber did.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I should like to congratulate Mr Atsma on his report. We look forward to the further exchange of views in his company. How many Dutch people have ever seen these two special wedding portraits of Rembrandt van Rijn? After centuries of private property and five months of public access in 1956, there is at least a reasonable chance that there are very few people to whom that applies. In any case, the newspapers have not found them in the past stream of publications. These are special works by the largest painter who has known the Netherlands, renowned worldwide. They are now national heritage. My group therefore looks forward, after all these years of private property, to the moment that this couple will hang in the Rijksmuseum's honorary gallery. There's a good chance of that. At the same time, my group regards the price to be paid for this as considerable. The preservation of the paintings for our country and continent and the accessibility for the public have our support. But the price, the ownership structure and the procedure also give rise to a number of questions for the Christian Union group. First of all, on the procedure. The message stream of the past few weeks has dampened the euphoria about the purchase of these two paintings. The expenditure of the Dutch State is likely to remain the same, but the ownership is shared. This gives a shadow over this decision and reduces its support. I would like a reflection of the Minister on the government's actions and the public image in this regard. Moreover, the implementation of the financial and ownership structure has changed several times in the reporting process. That is why I would ask the Minister to give a precise outline of the construction that is now being chosen. How did the prize come about and what are the consequences for other museums? Further agreements will have to be made, but these will determine exactly what the Netherlands is buying. Is there anything more to be said about that? Is a shared ownership of both portraits chosen? How is it ensured that one State cannot have its share without the consent of the other? In addition, the Christian Union Group asks what law will apply to the agreement, French or Dutch. We're curious. There are also situations that may be complex in the future for shared ownership, but which need to be discussed and negotiated before the agreement is concluded. What if the paintings are too vulnerable to move? Where are they gonna hang? How is it ensured that the concerns of experts are not met when it comes to restoration and other important conditions, such as management, safety and maintenance? I would also like to make this clear. Can the Minister give examples of this construction in other places in the museum world or is it completely unique? In any case, it is clear that in the final phase there was a great deal of pressure and that there was a concern that the paintings would again come to a private and possibly this time in another continent. However, it has also been argued that cooperation by the French authorities is necessary in all scenarios. Wasn't it a problem in France that these paintings would end up in another continent? Is the pressure that this process has received right, given the power of the French government in relation to the export licence? I'd like an explanation. With regard to the final amount to be spent, my group is asking whether there are any possibilities for external financing. Given the ownership situation, it now appears that external financing is mainly possible as a gift. Is that right? Constructions, conceived in plan A, the plan in which individuals would invest, seem no longer possible. But once Victory Boogie Woogie was bought by a donation from DNB, in addition to the story of fellow Gerkens. Does the Minister see any possibilities and how does the Minister intend to make external funding possible? Colleagues have already asked how this should be dealt with if the amount of 80 million would be reduced joyfully. I'm rounding up. The Christian Union hopes that many people will soon be able to get to know these special portraits of one of the Dutch greatest painters, perhaps the Dutch greatest painter. But price, property structure and procedure also give rise to questions. That is why I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u24	I note that no one wishes to speak in the first term. I would like to make the following point. In my response to Mr Atsma's maiden speech, I gave the impression that only Mr Atsma and Mr Ten Hoeve are powerful in the Frisian language. I have made some Members too short. Mr Pijlman also took the oath in the Frisian language, and at least for Mrs Jorritsma, Mr Hermans, Mr Schaap and Mrs Krikke, Frisian is not a foreign language. Those are the ones we know 100% for sure, but maybe there are others. In any case, I would like this to be included in the Acts in order not to wrong those who are powerful in the Frisian language.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the spokesmen of the Chamber for their input into this debate on two special paintings. Many of you have referred to this. I have heard fine words about this, beautiful reflections in the historical and cultural sense. Mr Atsma, Mr Schalk and Mrs Nooren went back a few centuries, others made an actual link, such as Mrs Gerkens, who brought De Dijk in. I will not tell you in detail how special and unique these paintings are, but they are. Maybe that's why it's become a unique process. Until then, it had rarely happened until never that people were painted from head to toe. The painter, the time in which they were painted, the message, the way they were painted; all this makes these works have such a unique status in the Dutch cultural heritage that this has led to a special procedure. First of all, there was a special request from almost all group chairmen from the House of Representatives to enable the purchase of the wedding portraits. That is a request that the cabinet does not receive on a daily basis either. In response to this request, we have come up with this incidental supplementary budget. As many have said recently, Rembrandt is ours all. That has been the guiding principle for our actions for me and for the cabinet: to restore the paintings to public hands, to make them accessible to a wide audience, from young to old, and to ensure that they remain in Europe. Several members have asked about the trial. How can we look back on that? I would like to emphasise very strongly that this was a very complex situation, which has experienced a special development. You don't buy a painting every day. That also applies to a government, and perhaps it is a good thing. We are dealing with a private owner, who makes his own considerations about who he wants to go to sea with when. He indicated that he originally preferred the Louvre. He then indicated that he would prefer the Rijksmuseum. At the same time, he has indicated that he is not opposed to the option of joint purchasing by two states. We are dealing with the relationship between the Rijksmuseum and me as Minister of Culture. The Rijksmuseum has its own responsibility, even if it is a national museum. This is a different relationship from that in France between the Louvre and my French colleague. My French colleague has her office about in/at the Louvre. Now I might wish for a study at the Rijksmuseum, but chairman, I am very pleased with my office in The Hague. It does say something about the affair. In fact, the Louvre is directly the responsibility of the Minister for Culture there. Then we have to deal with the relationship between France and the Netherlands, in which more aspects play a role in the diplomatic movement than just these paintings. Then we are dealing with an international art dealership, in which people look further away and are interested in very special heritage. I say this because this complex situation has led to different realities, which sometimes collide, but sometimes have also strengthened each other. I refer to the diplomatic relationship, the international art world and the domestic political situation. In that letter, with the wide-ranging request of the group chairmen of the House of Representatives, your colleagues on the other side, played a role. All this has led to what has happened in a short period of three months. In July there was an agreement between the Rijksmuseum and the owners about a kind of preference option to buy. Knowing of these arrangements, I and my French colleague sent a letter to the owners to emphasise that we attach great importance to the public possession of these paintings. I have always spoken openly and honestly with the director of the Rijksmuseum about both options. Questions have been asked about that. We have always informed each other about this from both sides. In July, we had fine intentions, but not yet a million. We saw that in France they had the opportunity to buy the paintings for much longer. The Louvre had been able to do so for a year, but even there it was not yet the beginning of a million euros. Three months later we are able to buy both paintings together. You can look at it in different ways. I acknowledge to Mr Atsma, Mrs Gerkens and members of other political groups, such as the PvdA and the Christian Union, that the procedure does not deserve a beauty prize. I also think that in this dynamic, with these realities, things could not have been any different. It could have been otherwise, but then we should have taken the risk that both paintings would never arrive in the Netherlands. That was a risk too great for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u26	I assume that by her last words the Minister referred to what she described earlier twice as the diplomatic relations and relations between France and the Netherlands. Can I understand the Minister so that she had really strong signals that if the Rijksmuseum and the State of the Netherlands were to push through, the French would have issued an export ban, even though they had lifted it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u27	We need the French, too, to keep those paintings outside of France. I do not want to describe in detail the diplomatic movement between France and the Netherlands, but through the agreement we have now made with each other, we have managed to keep both paintings in public possession and make them accessible to a wide audience, while preserving the good relations between France and the Netherlands. And so it didn't have to come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u28	The minister himself, not me, brought up the possibility that the paintings should not leave France. That is why I am asking for an explanation. You are not saying that for nothing and it therefore means that you had an indication that the French would not allow it. You can answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u29	I would like to point out that there has also been a special dynamic in France. I told you before, the Louvre had the opportunity to buy those paintings for a long time. They didn't do that. From the moment the Dutch newspapers and the Dutch media talked very extensively about the possibility that both paintings by the Dutch government, etc. The Rijksmuseum has also started a special dynamic in France. That's why I was talking about a complex situation. If you want to buy a painting in such a situation, especially if you want to involve private funds, you should do so quietly. That does not relate well to a parliamentary process. I understand that very well. In that you say: we want to be able to discuss budgets in detail. Of course, that is your right, but in a way it hinders the complex procedures of negotiating with a private family, negotiating with another country and raising private funds. A lot of people who might want to contribute to this, don't want it all to be in the papers. I wanted to say that this has become a real debate in France. This has also increased the pressure on the French Government, on my French colleague. The PVV group asks why money had to be promised first, when we were apparently already working on a plan. That's not entirely true. That's what I reported in the facts. At the time, the Rijksmuseum had both options. We indicated that there was another option to acquire the paintings in public. When it came to the fact that there had also been a whole discussion in France, my colleague from Finance and I said that we should have permission from the Lower House and the Upper Chamber before we could make a purchase. That buy isn't closed either. If you allow me, after the debate and after the vote I will send a letter to the owners of the paintings stating that the Dutch State really wants to make that contribution. Of course, I don't want to brusque you in any way. At the same time, we had to act quickly to prevent the paintings from coming to the Netherlands at all. In the meantime, France also had 80 million together and perhaps there were more possibilities there. In short, in view of the group chairmen' letter, I did not want to take that risk in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u30	Did the Minister have any indications that the paintings would indeed not come to the Netherlands and that there were possibilities in France to still acquire both paintings? Were there any, less parliamentaryly expressed, other hijackers on the coast?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u31	I do not describe this very complex situation for nothing. I'm just saying once again that I had signals that it could have come to this point that the paintings could never be seen in public. In this situation, we felt that we should act very quickly to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u32	Then I conclude that the Minister answers my question with yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u33	You talk about your questions, and I'm gonna talk about my answers. The situation is too complex to answer with a simple yes or no. We have done everything we can to prevent certain situations. In this complex dynamic, we have done everything we can to bring about rapid reactions. There was more at stake than just the paintings. The dynamics called for speedy decision-making. That is why we have submitted the request to this Chamber. Mr Nagel asks me to apologize. I'll tell him I don't see any reason to. I say, also to Mrs Nooren, that a very quick decision was very important because of the complex situation in Europe, but also because of possible hijackers elsewhere on the coast. Have only diplomatic reasons led to that step? That is partly why that step has been taken, but not alone. Again, the first good thing was to ensure that the paintings would be in public hands and that they could also be visited in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u34	I understand the diplomatic complexity and the complex process outlined by the Minister. I also hear that she chooses her words very carefully. I just wanted to make sure I understood her correctly that there was more at stake than just the paintings. If that's the case, I wonder what that is. In my opinion, it was all about the paintings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u35	This was originally also a question of paintings, but due to an urgent request from the group chairmen representing a very large majority in the House of Representatives during the period of the General Political Reviews and the General Financial Reviews, there was also a domestic dynamic. In France, attention had been given to this since a morning newspaper came out very large with the communication "The Rembrandts are coming home." As a result, a dynamic has also emerged in France, which has not been limited to my colleague in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u36	That raises more questions. It has not been limited to the colleague of culture. Maybe the Minister can tell us where it went?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u37	It means that it was not just about two paintings, but also a social debate in a country. Here too, we have had a great social debate over the last few weeks, not only about the paintings, but also about the cultural heritage and the significance of Rembrandt for our national identity. It is not very strange that this can happen in another country. If it were just a factual process of purchasing the two paintings, things would have turned out differently. Perhaps things would have gone quite differently if the whole process had stayed in rooms. But there was a dynamic that eventually demanded a quick decision. There's a lot to note. There are also lessons to be learned from. Mr Atsma asked what lesson I am taking from this. Actually, I can only draw one lesson from this, except I can't buy a painting too often. We have had other experiences in the past which have led to a lot of debate. The lesson would be: make sure that what you do stays in rooms as much as possible. A public debate with so many participants, including this Chamber and the other side of the Binnenhof, provides a unique dynamic. I was asked if there was anything else I could have done. At a time when everything went public and when it was going to play in France, perhaps we should have decided even more quickly to fund and buy both paintings in one way or another, but that would have been very at odds with the regulated democratic decision-making. The Court rightly asks for the approval of a not small amount to be spent on the paintings or a painting. In short, I think that next time it will also be an extremely complex process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u38	The minister just said that she was taking the lesson from this: make sure it stays inside. However, from what she has just said, I conclude that this lesson is not possible at all. It cannot acquire a painting of great value and leave Parliament out of it. That's not a lesson the minister needs to learn. The lesson must be: we cannot do that. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u39	If we want to buy a painting with parliamentary approval, we cannot do so. The only way that could have been done was if enough private sponsors had been found in silence, but it took more time. From the moment the process got that enormous dynamic, that time was no longer given to us. Time was too short anyway. I agree with Mr De Graaf. As long as it's about public money, it's almost impossible to buy a painting like this. I recall the experiences with the Victory Boogie Woogie. This has been the subject of an extensive parliamentary debate, because that process had been silent, but without prior parliamentary approval. The most important lesson is: don't buy a painting too often. Mrs. Gerkens asked why the owners wouldn't wait any longer. I refer to the complicated dynamics I have already mentioned. There is also a complicated dynamic between the family, the French government and the Louvre. The Rothschild family has a special position in the Louvre Friends Foundation. It has an important history, also in financial terms, with the French state. In short, this is a subject on which we could write a book, also given the political and human links between this and that, which has not made the situation any easier. I come to a number of factual questions. Mr De Graaf asked about the legal status of the agreement in principle which the owners had with the Rijksmuseum. At first, there was an oral agreement between the two parties, which was later confirmed in writing by the owner and was established in an option to buy for the Rijksmuseum. In the letter that Mr Pellerin and I received from the De Rothschild family following our letter of 14 July, the family informed us that she has a preferred option for the Rijksmuseum, but that an option of joint purchase was also conceivable for her. I would like to stress once again that in both cases there has not yet been a start on funding. However, the signal was given how much we attach to the paintings so that if the Rijksmuseum didn't get it around, others would jump into that hole. It is true that the Rijksmuseum had a special option, confirmed by the family. However, we should not look at this option too much in isolation, because it also played in the relations between the Louvre, the De Rothschild family and the French state. Mrs Nooren asked for an explanation of the situation, which meant that a quick agreement with the selling party was the only way to prevent the paintings from being sold to wealthy individuals. I've already gone into that. The activities in the past period were aimed at acquiring the paintings with the aim of visibility in the public domain. By quickly switching to the joint acquisition with France, we ensure that the Dutch public can become acquainted with it. Mrs Bikker and Mr De Graaf ask whether the joint acquisition by France and the Netherlands means that the paintings become jointly owned or that both countries become the owner of each one portrait. Mr Atsma referred to that too. The aim is to buy the two paintings together. But once again, it is only after approval by the Chamber that we can make that purchase. And it is only after that that the legal side of things will be worked out. Of course, we have all been preparing this for a long time, but we can only do so formally after the vote that is to take place here. The important thing is that we talk about shared property, because everyone loves the owners, France, the Netherlands and both museums very much that these paintings are never separated. Shared ownership should be part of the further elaboration of the agreements between the seller, the Dutch government, the French government and the museums concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u40	The Minister actually says that the purchase must be completed first and that we will then come to talk about the rest. It seems logical to me that, for example, there is already clarity in the front about the property and the way in which you set things up before you sign up with how many million you buy these paintings, because otherwise you don't know what you're getting. Suppose we buy one painting, but the agreement is that both states can have access to it themselves, then the minister just ends up in an unwanted divorce. That is why I ask the Minister to go into this more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u41	I fully agree with Mrs Bikker that it should be shared property, that the paintings should not be separated and that they should be restored in the same way instead of one painting by one method and another painting by another method. However, there are a number of complex legal issues that we are looking for: the form of property rights, the method of loan, the always inseparable display, indemnity and unambiguous responsibility for and financing restoration and management. These are complex questions which I would like to leave to the professionals in part. I am confident that the Louvre and the Rijksmuseum, two of the most renowned museums in Europe, have everything to do with this. It all has to be worked out in great detail, but the basic principles are: shared ownership, inseparableness of both paintings, alternating in the Rijksmuseum and the Louvre.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u42	These principles have now been clearly formulated, including for the Acts. Is one of the principles also that the exchange of ownership of either cannot be done without the express consent of the other owner?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u43	That makes sense to me, because you have it in common ownership. Mrs Bikker and Mr De Graaf asked whether it matters that we are not talking about museums anymore, but about two states...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u44	The minister says: that makes sense if it is shared property. My private law class is from some time ago, but I don't think that's necessary. I would like to hear that more precisely from the Minister. Apart from the fact that it makes sense, is it a condition in this agreement or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u45	I see only one option, shared property, to prevent one of the parties from going their separate ways with one painting. It means that the paintings become shared property.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u46	The shared property is clear to me. It's about changing property. If the one state wants to sell to Spain, for example, which is still friendly and close to it, or to the United Arab Emirates, then what happens? Is it a harsh condition that the other party has to agree to that? It is also fine if the Minister wants to figure this out in the second term, but I would like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u47	I will come back to it in the second term, but I can only imagine that there is only one option, namely shared ownership. Shared ownership is also about having both paintings together. Mrs Bikker's reasoning is therefore practically impossible. It would only be possible if one country bought one painting and the other country bought the other painting. That is not the intention, because then they can be separated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u48	In Dutch law we have the association of owners for that. There is no doubt that the French have such a structure. The Minister says that it is expressly not the intention of one country to buy one portrait and another portrait. Then why was that in the letter of 14 July? That's literally what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u49	The letter of 14 July states that there is an opportunity to move together, in which each country buys a painting. Since then, we have thought further that it is not convenient that one painting is in the possession of one country and the other painting in the possession of the other country. The objective is that both paintings are in public possession, that they are accessible and that they cannot be separated. I can only imagine that the agreement of the other owner is always necessary before that part is sold. That needs to be worked out in the contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u50	Some parties have argued today that, in the worst case scenario, we should reclaim the painting. That would mean you'd always have to decide between the two of you to make money, I understand. Is that really the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u51	There can be no question that we intend to pay for that painting. We buy this painting not to sell it to a wealthy art dealer anywhere, but to have it in public possession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u52	That's obvious. I have also indicated that this is not a beckoning perspective. However, it must be possible in principle. In fact, the Minister now says that by buying together for the future we are joint prisoners of these two paintings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u53	As long as both countries have both paintings in their possession, they are condemned to each other. However, I do not want to describe it that way, because I also like it very much. It fits very well in any case my approach to the much more collaboration of museums. I particularly advocate this at national level, within the Netherlands. However, I think this is a good example of how this can be done within Europe, between two countries that have a strong connection with these paintings. We have that band because they are from Rembandt and they are a Dutch couple, but France also has that band because those paintings have been in that country for a long time. I actually think that's a very nice challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u54	Now that we have arrived at the heading 'buying conditions', I ask the Minister whether she is considering including the fact that the Netherlands has the right to first purchase in case France decides to dispose of the paintings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u55	How we should do that is also something that we, both countries, need to talk about. In the case of the purchase we are about to close, the option that the Rijksmuseum had received from the owners, to which I referred, should be removed from the table. This may provide a perspective to take some of this wish, but it must be done in a fair trial between the two countries. We need to see how we can do this in the best possible way, with everything that needs to be worked out. It seems obvious to me that I should like to say this to Mrs Bikker and Mr Schalk in the event of a sale. It is possible that one of the two parties will ever choose to place both paintings in the hands of one country. However, that is not the issue at the moment. What is at issue now is that we buy both paintings together and that we also work together to show these paintings in the Louvre and the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam to the broad population. I was referring to the question put by Mr De Graaf and Mrs Bikker, namely whether it does not matter that the museums are no longer active, but the two states are taking action. It's just a question of whether that makes a difference. I stress that the Rijksmuseum does not have its own collection. Everything that the museum acquires is acquired by artworks and is part of the national collection, even if that happens with private money. The Dutch government has put the management of the national collection in the hands of various national museums and the Cultural Heritage Agency. In any form of acquisition that could be chosen, there would be a certain degree of involvement of public authorities. However, the exhibition, management and maintenance of the canvases will soon become tasks of the professionals, i.e. of both museums. I am very committed to putting that responsibility back where it belongs. D66, the SP and the PvdA have asked if there are any other examples of this type of joint possession. Yes, there is an interesting example of England and Scotland. They share the painting Diana and Callisto by Titian. They bought it together. They exhibit this alternately in the two national galleries in London and Edinburgh. They do that on a schedule that I find interesting. The first year is about and about, so one year Scotland and one year England. Then it is about two years, then three years, then three years, and eventually the painting moves from London to Edinburgh and vice versa every five years. We are going to learn from this, both in the legal sense and in the sense of transport, insurance, etc. Mr De Graaf and Mrs Bikker asked which contracts were concluded by both museums or governments. This is part of the further elaboration of the agreements between the seller, the Dutch government, the French government and the museums concerned. I would like to say once again, including to Mr Atsma, that it is intended that this should be done as a two-unit. The portraits must be exhibited in optimum condition. How we are going to do that is also part of the elaboration. The same applies to the interview that Mr Atsma asked for. The director Collections of the Rijksmuseum has been able to assess the paintings at two times and has qualified the state of maintenance as "reasonable." The costs of maintenance and restoration are for the Rijksmuseum. That also answers Mr Atsma's question as to whether there are sufficient resources for maintenance, partly in relation to what has been said in the debate on heritage in the House of Representatives. Yes, because the Rijksmuseum is currently receiving funds under the four-year grant period. As of 2016, management and maintenance will be transferred to the Erfgoedwet, which is still ahead of this Chamber. The Rijksmuseum receives approximately 35 million euros of subsidy. The management and maintenance can also be financed by the Heritage Act within this existing budget. The Rijksmuseum does not receive any additional subsidy for these paintings, but is going to pay it out of its budget and thus also contributes to the costs. The restoration costs are linked to the purchase, asked the SGP. Yes, the works are in reasonable condition. They must be restored and that is paid for by the Rijksmuseum. Mr De Graaf asked if we could say more about the joint exhibition policy. This is part of the detailed arrangements between the seller, the Dutch government, the French government and the museums involved. We shall also look at cases such as those between Scotland and England. He also asked whether the portraits are indeed displayed in all provincial capitals. In any case, the portraits are intended to be accessible to a wide audience. One of the possibilities under consideration is a limited tour of the paintings by the Netherlands. However, careful consideration should be given to the organisational and safety feasibility of this and to the other parties in this dossier. In the coming period, we are going to make agreements on how this can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u56	The latter sounds a bit like a cautious warning that the House of Representatives should be disappointed in the idea of a sort of eleven- or twelve-cities tour. I could understand that, by the way. I do think that the Minister could say a little more about the first, namely that joint exhibition policy. I can assume that she and the Rijksmuseum have ideas about whether it really should be longer periods in which the two paintings are in one country and then in the other, or whether they are moving around annually? That could be said a little bit more, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u57	We agreed that the paintings will come to the Netherlands first. At least I'm very happy about that. As far as I am concerned, as far as Mr De Graaf is concerned, too, I think that they would prefer to stay in the Netherlands for as long as possible. I can also imagine, however, that in France people say that they really want to show these paintings in the Louvre. That is why I mentioned this example of cooperation between London and Edinburgh, in which the paintings gradually stay longer and longer periods in a museum: first a year in both museums, then two years, then three years. This means that you have little transport costs, insurance costs, etc. and yet the public in both countries can enjoy the works. So I think it is quite conceivable that this is a possibility. However, the discussion about this can also lead to a different outcome, depending on the details of the restoration and so on. I would also like to have that conversation with my French colleague, her officials and the two museums in silence and, above all, let the professionals lead what is justified and desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u58	The Minister states that the regular budget of the Rijksmuseum provides for restoration and maintenance. That's clear. In any case, that will be less than 35 million, because other works of art will also have to be left with the necessary resources. The Minister has not yet said how this is done with the French share. 'Cause I'm guessing that happens on a 50/50 basis. I am also curious about the time frame involved in the restoration and the first maintenance, also in relation to the tour. We all know what a tour is, but I do want to know what a tour of the Netherlands is. What does that mean in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u59	I would very much like to inform the Chamber about all the arrangements we are going to make. I don't want to anticipate that. This is a very specific area of expertise. I am very impressed by the expertise we have at the Rijksmuseum. There is an entire research department in this area. We must leave the conclusions to be drawn on what is justified. Then I'd like to inform the Chamber about that. Of course, it is desirable for both museums to undertake that restoration. But it is also conceivable that, if both paintings are restored here, we will pay from our budget, after which the French will pay something else. We have to look at that as an association of owners, as Mr De Graaf called it. We shouldn't settle that out of mistrust, starting to compete with each other. I don't think that contributes to great commitment and professionalism. At the same time, it must, of course, be legally well organized. As I said, I would be happy to inform the Chamber about all the arrangements. That's what I'm doing about a possible tour. Such a tour indeed has many feet in the earth, because it can be very precious. There may be reasons not to. The beauty of that is that the paintings become very physical of everyone and are visible to everyone. But maybe there's another way to do that. Mr Atsma mentioned an interesting example: in 2018 is Leeuwarden Cultural Capital and there is a familiar relationship between the portraits and the city of Leeuwarden. It is conceivable that in a generous loan policy that I advocate and stimulate, there will not be a general tour, but there will be a special exhibition in Leeuwarden in 2018. I'm not saying it's gonna happen, but it's one of the possibilities. Of course, there are always risks to the transport of valuable and vulnerable works of art. But we've built up a lot of expertise in that. Paintings can now go around the world. Think of the Girl with the pearl of Vermeer, which has been up to Japan. The Mauritshuis and the Rijksmuseum are among the museums in the Netherlands, which I trust very wisely. I am sure that if they find the risks to the works of art too great, they will really prevent a transport. Mrs Nooren asked about the actions I will take to exchange other works of art. This is a central part of my policy, enshrined in Working together, stronger together and in Space for Culture, in which I address, among other things, a good accessibility of collections and in which I encourage that works of art are not only in depots, but are deliberately loaned out to each other. An example of this is the Museum Cooperation Contribution, a cooperation arrangement of the Mondriaan Fund, which aims, among other things, to increase the visibility of collections. From museums I expect them to pursue a generous loan policy, first and foremost in the Netherlands, but also with foreign museums when that possibility arises. The Louvre and the Rijksmuseum also work well together. What are the risks in the Museum Purchase Fund? It is true, and that hurts, that with this purchase a big grip is made in the Museum Purchase Fund. However, over 4 million remains available. This is important in order to contribute to the acquisition of works of art on the WBC list. That's protected cultural property. Unlike these two Rembrandts, these are works that are in the Netherlands and are at risk of leaving the country and then being purchased. So that can be done through that fund. There, too, there is the possibility of doing so partly by private means. But I am very keen to be able to fulfil my responsibility in the context of the WBC list and also in the context of the Heritage Act, which lies with this Chamber. The aim is to replenish the Museum Purchase Fund in the short term, at least within five years. I will inform the House of this in the annual report. We are talking to the Rijksmuseum about his contribution to these two Rembrandts. The Rijksmuseum has no other property than the government: all possession of the Rijksmuseum is owned by the government, i.e. by all citizens of the Netherlands. In that sense, it is not the case that someone else buys these paintings; we buy these paintings as representatives of the Dutch people. The Rijksmuseum contributes to the restoration, transport, insurance and so on. We are talking to the Rijksmuseum about a contribution to an accelerated addition to the Museum Purchase Fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u60	Surely the Rijksmuseum itself can act as a legal person and acquire small, less costly works, without the Minister always having to be directly involved? So it could be that the Rijksmuseum is the contracting partner and the State is the founding party. Or does the Rijksmuseum get this from the State, because the State doesn't hang works of art on the wall, but instead accommodates them at the Rijksmuseum?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u61	In this case, because both governments now buy, the last variant applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u62	Why was this variant chosen instead of both museums?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u63	In the Dutch situation, it doesn't matter much. It is a formal difference, but practically the Rijksmuseum has no property of its own: every painting of the Rijksmuseum is part of the national collection. The same applies to the works of art purchased by the Rijksmuseum by private means. Because recent works of art, such as Adriaen de Vries' image, have been purchased mainly with private funds, but, if they are owned by the Rijksmuseum, they are part of the national collection. Mrs Gerkens asked whether no protocol should be made for works of art that are elsewhere. Mr. Atsma asked what would happen if the Hermitage sold his Rembrandts. That's a scenario that's unlikely. In this case, however, it is not a museum that offers its works for sale, but works of art that have been privately owned for centuries. At a museum there is really another situation. According to experts in the museum sector, it is exceptional that works of art of this quality and with this unique historical value for the Netherlands come on the market. There is one other unique thing: the very wide-ranging request of the group chairmen of the House of Representatives. I should like to say that I am afraid that the group chairmen are not going to be able to make such a request every week. And so I say to Mrs Gerkens that a protocol is not useful here, because it concerns such special, unique cases. So we wouldn't have much hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u64	Hearing the Minister's speech, I thought she would almost say that such a request was not "happy" every week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u65	Fortunately, not every week for a painting, given the complexity of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u66	I know exactly what you mean. Back to the question I asked: it was not just about this unique situation, but also because there is still a lot in private collections. Since France is apparently able to lay down rules, is there any possibility that we could also lay down rules on this? Can we look at the collections that are still there and what we can do to protect our cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u67	I would almost say: I cannot wait to have the debate with you on the law on cultural heritage. We have laid down some of these rules. Whether or not this is sufficiently protected was also an important part of the debate with the House of Representatives. Just like the question of whether people can still appeal enough. I think these are the questions that will certainly come back to that. A number of questions of a more financial nature have also been asked, and I will try to answer them as best I can. Mr Nagel asked if the two paintings were valued. Yes, the Rijksmuseum has valued these pieces at the value of 160 million. An external expert has been consulted for this assessment. The sum of 160 million is the result of talks between the Rijksmuseum and the Rothschild family. Moreover, I myself have not heard any lower amounts from the media, but higher amounts of 200 million and more. Mrs Gerkens and Mrs Bikker asked whether purchase by the Nederlandsche Bank was an option. I just pointed out the Victory Boogie Woogie, a purchase by DNB. It is a bad relationship to the budget law of the States-General. The Netherlands Bank is a State participation. Partly because it had actually meant that the coverage would come from the Netherlands Bank's dividend, it was not looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u68	I understand that. However, I recently walked through the Rijksmuseum and saw one of the latest purchases hanging there, the painting with the dike breakthrough. I think that was paid for by another Dutch bank, with three letters. Has that been considered? Has this creativity been further developed? Or did the dynamics that emerged affect the two governments that were already on the wagon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u69	That last one. We have explored other possibilities, but for very different reasons we have chosen to do so. That had to do with technical complications and the time pressure that was on it. Because the Dutch Bank, but also other banks, are of course not about one night ice cream. Mr Schalk of the SGP and Mr Nagel of 50PLUS asked about the contribution of the government. Is it 40 million now or still 80 million? The cabinet has set its maximum contribution at 80 million. This agreement is also requested from the Chamber. The State's contribution cannot be reduced simply because the joint acquisition with France affects the contribution of private parties. Now that that contribution is no longer available, it is not real to opt for the purchase of a contribution below 80 million. Once again, that has been the complexity of the process through which the private parties have said: now we are no longer playing a role. This in turn has the advantage that the private funds now have a little more resources for the possible acquisition of other works of art. But here too, the complex dynamics of the process have led to this. I also say to the PVV: I am far from denying that the Rijkmuseum would have broken a promise. From his responsibility, he has done his best to find means for the acquisition of these paintings. In the end, both countries have now made 80 million contributions each.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u70	I do not understand how taxpayers' money is dealt with here. First there were two paintings and a contribution of 80 million. If you get half, you don't have to study math for that, you can think you're only paying half. The fund-raisers had said they would contribute the other half. The strange thing is that just five days ago Minister Dijsselbloem said he was holding on to the 12.5 million. Next, the Rembrandt Association said that it would not honour the 5 million promised. The cabinet said through Minister Dijsselbloem that a symbolic contribution would be sufficient. What's that? Is that $1? In my opinion, it is a great thing, in an evil way, that taxpayers' money is being dealt with and that the cabinet is letting the fund-raisers get away with it far too easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u71	Mr Nagel may think so, but I do not have the private fund-raisers on a string. We can politely ask them to contribute, but they must eventually agree to the construction. We found that another construction in this very complex dynamic was no longer possible without taking a lot of risks, in particular the risk that both paintings might never end up in the Netherlands. I also find it regrettable that the original construction of the Rijksmuseum, with inheritance rights in the case of a purchase by the State, simply cannot continue. We have to accept that. That is unfortunate, but I note that these private contributions are no longer on the table, however regrettable, and that the Rijksmuseum's collection is a government collection. So we don't give this money either, if anyone still thinks so, just give it to a Rijksmuseum but that this property belongs to all of us. I note that the Rijksmuseum contributes from its own resources to the restoration, transport and so on, and that we are talking to the Rijksmuseum to make a symbolic contribution to fill the Museum Purchase Fund, so that they also take their responsibility towards the other museums.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u72	The Minister indicated that she had found that private parties were withdrawing at that time and that it was also risky to proceed with these difficult and difficult negotiations. If all that is done, hopefully, will the Minister still try to interest private parties, even if only afterwards, so that you might be able to get that purchase amount down from the public funds in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u73	But that can never be more than a polite request to private parties. I do not have any title to appeal to private parties with legal means. So that could be a polite request. Some of them have already indicated: we do not feel called. I'm sorry to hear that, but it's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u74	I understand this is a polite request, but you can act actively on it. The Minister knows which private parties have withdrawn at least now, and perhaps there are others. Is the Minister prepared to investigate this in any case in order to interest other private parties? Or is that really a pointless exercise?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u75	I would say that is a pointless exercise, because the original construction of the Rijksmuseum has to do with inheritance taxes. That option is just off the job the moment the government buys. In all cases, it should have been paid partly from public funds. This option cannot now be legally applied either. So there's nothing left but the charities and the funds. They themselves indicated that they no longer want to contribute. Then it remains that they now have resources for other purchases. I hope that something will be purchased in the Netherlands with private money in particular; more resources are now available for this. Mr Schalk asked about the budgetary rules. We'll stick to that. If there is any money left, this will, as usual, be reflected in the end-of-year margin. This is reflected in a final law, the spring note and so on. Mr Schalk asked whether the purchase would not take place if the amount was exceeded. There is no question of exceeding the amount. I am very happy to answer to the Chamber afterwards about all the precise agreements we make. Is the maximum amount that can be spent 80 million? Yes. After all, we are asking for 80 million to be approved. I say to Mr De Graaf and Mrs Gerkens that this is a lot of money. However, given the valuation of the paintings and the value that the paintings will certainly retain, it is well invested money. Mrs Nooren asked about the influence of the course of events on the willingness of funds to contribute. I've already answered that question. That has led them to the conclusions I have just indicated in response to questions from the SGP Group. Mrs Nooren has asked a number of general questions about the financing and the cash slides. In the absence of the Minister of Finance, I will try to answer them as well as possible. I was pleased with Mr De Grave's comment, which said that it was a sound funding, including in the legal sense. Cash transfers are carried out regularly in the event of delays or acceleration of expenditure across the annual boundaries. The basic principle is that the budget law and budgetary notes state the best possible estimate of cash expenditure. Cash slides are a means of adapting a budget to new information and insights such as a new estimate. We always answer for this, even in cash-sliding, through the Autumn note, the Spring note, supplementary budgets and so on. Let me give you an example of my own department OCW. In the 2016 budget, a cash drawer has been used to cover the LeerKracht action plan and the student card. The Spring note and the first supplementary budget cover Caribbean Netherlands, flexible higher education for adults and the Cultural System 2017-2020. There must be good reasons for handling a cash slide. Mrs Nooren has asked if we have clear criteria for this. These are current estimates and new information or policy changes which lead to changes in estimates. We already talked about a different cash rhythm, so delay or acceleration. In these cases, cash slides can be used. Following the letter of amendment of 21 September, Mrs Nooren asked for the dividend and where the changes were. These are included in the incidental supplementary budgets for the year 2015. They are offered to the First and Second Chambers. This involves 12 million ICT expenditure from the Tax Administration. Mrs Gerkens asked whether this would have an impact on taxation, which the Chamber is still discussing with Mr Wiebes this evening. The answer to that is that there is no link to the bill that the Chamber will deal with later today. In addition, 38 million of the budget reserved for the investment agenda of the Tax Administration is generally transferred to the additional item. Furthermore, the amount of EUR 50 million will be received in 2016 in excess of the estimated dividend. A cash slide has been applied to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u76	I didn't just ask if it had anything to do with the bill being dealt with tonight. I also asked what is not being done this year with the Tax Administration's ICT and what is going on next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u77	This year's ICT expenditure will no longer be realized in 2015 and will be moved to 2016. As far as I know, the Chamber is still going to have the debate on ICT with my colleague, Mr Wiebes, which has no consequences, and no tasks with regard to ICT will be lost in the Tax Administration. Mr Schalk asked whether, in the case of a possible lower purchase amount, the OCW budget would first be used so that the cash drawer would be used as little as possible. A lower purchase amount is not at issue. The cabinet will inform both chambers of the Spring Paper in accordance with the existing budgetary rules. We would like to be prepared to answer for all the agreements that we are currently making. Mrs Nooren asked about the dives of state participations. The First and Second Chambers were informed of the higher dividend receipts in 2016, which I mentioned earlier, through the letter of amendment. The six-month figures of the Gasunie and Schiphol Airport in 2015 led to an adjustment of the estimation of dividends of State holdings. The current dividend estimate is the best possible estimate for 2016. Some of the questions raised by Mrs Nooren in particular concern more general questions about how we deal with supplementary budgets and cash transfers. In the absence of the Minister of Finance, I would point out that the Chamber knows better than I do that the Chamber still has General Financial Reviews with him. On the general level, the debate can be held. I repeat it to Mr De Grave: the funding of this 80 million is, in our view, justified and sound and is well included in the supplementary budgets that the Chamber has received from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u78	Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group thanks the Minister for his reply. If one thing emerged from the reply and the first term of the Chamber, it is the following. I said at the beginning of my contribution that the two husbands who allowed themselves to be portrayed and spokesmen wanted to be, they also became. I note that they are also in this Chamber to this day. In this sense, the Minister has answered a number of questions quite clearly. The CDA Group understands the complexity of the process; this is not a discussion. The CDA Group is grateful to the Minister for stating that the process in recent months does not deserve a beauty prize. In fact, if you see what was written in the French media as a result of offering the two paintings to the Louvre, it covers a period of several years. In that sense, I understand very well that the last few months have become more complex. The CDA Group believes that it could have been a little bit more transparent, although the Minister himself states that she hopes that this process will not repeat itself. Let's just leave it at that. About the finance, the minister said the amount is 80 million. It involves two times 80 million for both paintings, which together form one piece of art. There is talk of the necessary restoration, as the experts in the Rijksmuseum now believe. The necessary maintenance will also have to be carried out. It is reassuring in itself that this can be done from the budget of 35 million of the Rijksmuseum, but I have not received a clear answer to my question as to whether the Louvre guarantees the same amount. My question is, given the purchase of the paintings of 80 million apiece, whether the combined restoration and maintenance costs will also be borne on the basis of fifty-fifty. That seems perfectly logical to me when I heard the Minister. I'd like to have it confirmed. What is and remains complex is the legal entity within which the purchase of the two paintings will be poured. Mr De Graaf spoke about associations of owners. You can talk about a foundation and even about an e.g. with shareholders, who own the shares on the basis of fifty-fifty. In any case, let it be clear that whatever construction you choose, the CDA group believes that the dividend should mainly go to the people, to the people, to anyone who wants to take note of these two special paintings. This will apply to a large number of people from outside the Netherlands. Finally. The Minister addressed the question of whether there could still be a tour of several regions. She said it wouldn't be in all the provinces affected, but didn't rule out a tour. The CDA Group is extremely pleased that the Minister wishes to examine this further and that she has explicitly mentioned the Cultural Capital 2018. The CDA Group welcomes this. She is very curious about the results of the search. The Minister is aware of the efforts of the CDA Group; several groups have expressed themselves in similar terms. In short, if I listen to the financial soundness of the proposal presented, I can say yes in full on behalf of the CDA Group. I am very interested in the further development and I keep the Minister's promise that the Chamber will be further informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u79	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister. As I said in the first term, the PVV does not opt for paintings, but for our elders. I would just like to tell Mr De Grave of the VVD that he can ridicule it all nicely, as he did in the first term, but you'll just sit there, in a nursing home, if there's room at all! You'll just sit there in your 24-hour veil, when you can only take a bath once a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u80	What's ridicul about just saying that it's not even half a day a year? What's ridicul about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u81	I'm just saying, you'll just sit there!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u82	No, I'm asking you about the word ridicul. You use that word, now answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u83	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u84	What is ridicul about me saying, in relation to the debate, that it is not yet one day a year, once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u85	Mr De Grave tries to sweep away the problem of care for the elderly, which is often the lack of proper care for our elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u86	Wave away a little bit? That's different from the word ridicul. I'm not trying to wave anything away. I'm trying to put a debate in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u87	Now you don't have to get mad. I call it ridicul and I stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u88	I'll get mad if you use a word like ridicul. And I can't stand you refusing and defending your choice of words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u89	Mr De Grave, I would ask you to speak through the President in the light of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u90	I'll file the next motion. The President shall: Mr Kops, Mr Peter van Dijk, Mr Kok, Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst and Mr Dercksen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas politics is a matter of "making choices";]] [[noting that the government has opted for a Rembrandt painting of EUR 80 million and not for our elderly;]] [[calls on the government to refrain from buying Rembrandt and to spend the €80 million allocated to it on care for the elderly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34285, 34286-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u91	Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to make two points on our side. We talked about the contributions of the Rijksmuseum, the Rembrandt Association and other fund-raisers. The Minister said five days ago, after the Second Chamber debate, that she was holding on and assumed that 12.5 million would be committed. The Rembrandt Association itself said that she had promised 5 million, but she didn't. Surely we could have talked to these fund-raisers and said, for example, that it was only if they signed a declaration of intent and made an effort to collect the committed amounts. Here's taxpayers' money being squandered. The government has let that go. There wasn't any dynamics. The second point is that last Wednesday evening the First Chamber received the request to adopt these two legislative proposals without being able to take note of the debates in the Second Chamber. The text was not available and the First Chamber could not be present without committee meetings and without proper justifications. Mr De Grave, your coalition partner said: I will not say it in the words of Jan Nagel or in the same way as he did, but I agree with him, because that is not the way to do it. Instead of saying: I understand, because it did not go well, and I am sorry, you will remain unmoved, just as you will remain unmoved by the loss of taxpayers' money that we suffer unnecessarily. This is an extremely weak turn of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u92	I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u93	Chairman? I would ask Members to continue to talk through the President, because that is how we do it in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u94	Mr. Chairman. It goes wrong quite occasionally, perhaps because of inexperience, just as another inexperience happened to me this afternoon, namely that at the beginning of my speech I forgot to congratulate Mr Atsma on his maiden speech. I'd like to make that up to you. I see that Mr Atsma accepts my apology. I thank him for that. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which clearly sets out the framework for funding. I continue to regret that the route of co-payment by private parties seems to have been cut off. I think we should accept that. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats stresses that its support for this bill is not a licence for a repetition. In this very specific case and considering that this will allow this painter, this artist Rembrandt, to make a unique purchase, the balance for the members of the SGP-group may be to the sole word yes. We hope to see the paintings in the Netherlands in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u95	Mr. Chairman. The minister said it nicely: Rembrandt belongs to all of us. That might show us how we are holding the debate here. In my view, the Minister has clearly explained how the process went, what the relationship between the parties involved is, that the paintings were in private hands, what makes them complex and that there are also two countries which, in my view, have to come out together with different cultures. In this light, one question remained unanswered, namely whether the Minister had any signals from France that the export ban, which, in addition to the openness of the matter, had been a major acceleration in the process, would also apply if others bought the painting. The silence needed to acquire paintings with public funds and the transparency required for democratic decision-making in this case gave rise to tension. We share the Minister's view that it will probably exist again the next time that this is the case. Maybe we should live with that. The Minister points out that we do not have to buy paintings too often, but that depends, in my opinion, on whether these paintings are of national cultural value, as is the case with these paintings. We are pleased that the Minister is considering whether the Rijksmuseum can contribute to the Museum Purchase Fund, which guarantees that money will be spent if national cultural value is restored in the coming years. The questions about the state dividends and cash slides were not intended to give the impression that the cabinet would not have acted properly, but to check whether things have happened in this unique situation that will also occur in other situations. We will raise them with the Minister of Finance when they arise. One point that continues to puzzle us is the shared property right and the shared alienation right. I understand that the Minister does not want to anticipate any agreements on this in France, but we would very much appreciate it if the marriage would not be separated in the coming years and the paintings would stay together. Does the Minister intend to make an effort to achieve this in the legal field? The main goal of everything we do is to keep the unique works together and keep them available to the public. We welcome the fact that the Minister wants to make an effort to see if the works can be seen throughout the Netherlands. This may increase the acceptance of those who doubt the added value of this purchase. As far as we are concerned, the tour through the Netherlands can take place if it is safe and responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u96	If Mr De Grave does not speak in second term, we can go to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u97	Mr. Chairman. The Minister kept a clear story. She has actually said that a breeding chicken should not be disturbed by well-intentioned initiatives. After all, well-intentioned initiatives are not always convenient. A Minister of Education, Culture and Science knows the comparison with the breadbox all too well, I think. That lunch box left the teenager on the kitchen table, and the parent brings it to high school full of good intentions. That seems very thoughtful, but I can tell you that it has a very counterproductive effect. Not everyone here seems to have followed a good strategy, and I can assume that the Minister will discuss this with these people in private conversations in due course. I'm glad to hear that the cash drawer on the IRS ICT isn't a cut. It is simply expenditure that will not be done again this year, so in that respect the cash drawer also has my agreement. I would still like to look at the terms of purchase, just like other speakers. This too is a process of a breeding chicken. So we have to let them breed, but we can give the chicken some hay. It'll be nice and warm. One of the straws I would like to give is the right of sale for both parties. That is, in itself, a peculiarity today. I'd like to give that to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u98	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and her statements. A few things have become clear to me. Apart from the fact that specific questions have been answered, this debate also gives me some clarity about the relations between France and the Netherlands. Let me put it this way: the relationship has played a role. A little less diplomatic, I have the feeling that France has effectively taken the Netherlands to task and that the original option of achieving the Rijksmuseum's dream of bringing the two paintings to the Netherlands has actually been effectively blocked by the French state. Nevertheless, we now have the situation that there is a joint purchase and the paintings stay together and are managed by the two museums in the two states. I hope that this will be the case in a transferable sense: until death do us part. A good marriage should be able to suffer. Leeuwarden has a point for the Minister, I understand. My group can live with that. Nor are we talking about identifying the places where these paintings are exhibited, but I would like to see no unnecessary risks being run with a lot of transport between France and the Netherlands and in the countries concerned. Buying paintings, we shouldn't do too much, the Minister said. I understand that, especially given the history of the last three months. Because there was a lot of fuss, a lot of noise and a lot of explanation, and both of them got involved. Yet I think to myself: there must be a space. There must be room for a special purchase. Perhaps we should consider a fund that we can form for very special purchases. The Council of Ministers must really judge these purchases, but the budget law of both chambers must also be applied in advance. Otherwise, you will find yourself in situations like this where supplementary budgets will have to be approved at the last minute. That could actually be avoided. Finally, I come to the PVV motion. I've reread the PVV's election program. Indeed, the word "culture" only occurs in terms of "own culture first." However, that election programme does not state that public art property must be sold in order to pay for care for the elderly. That would be consistent and consistent, given the words of Mr Kops in first and second terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u99	I call Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u100	...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u101	Something goes wrong with the buttons sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u102	That's okay, Mr. Chairman. We all do. Mr. Chairman. In 1907, the States-General debated the purchase of the Milkmaid for up to 550,000 guilders. You understand that this stirred up a lot of dust. I am pleased to note today that this minister has grown beyond her distant predecessor Pieter Jelles Troelstra, who said at the time that we can all know, through the various museums we have visited, that the ancient painting of that time is sufficiently represented to take notice of it. If that were concluded at the time, it would be annoying if the Minister suddenly made the same statement. In this sense, I commend the Minister for seeing the value of these Rembrandts and for all her efforts. At the same time, however, we have noted that this procedure does not deserve a beauty prize. The minister did that himself. She also said we shouldn't buy a painting too often. Indeed, too often, some fatigue would result in the enthusiasm we bring to new works of art. However, I can agree with Mr De Graaf, who wondered whether we should have an earmarked savings fund for this purpose, which is a better word than that. Maybe we already have a piggy bank, but it's almost empty now. Perhaps we should consider whether it is sufficient for the situation that the Minister has been facing today. I'd like to hear that at another time. On one point, my group still has concerns. That's the shared property. My group considers a necessary condition for the conclusion of a purchase contract, which you know what it is about. In any case, it must be ensured that one state cannot have its share without the consent of the other. I would like to hear the Minister more about this. The Minister said: that is obvious, and that is also true of a first option for buying. Mr Gerkens asked for that. But if everything were to happen, the States-General would have had a very quiet existence. So I think that's just too little. In the legal sense, it is certainly not hard. I understand the Minister's confidence. I understand that there are talks with the French state and that not everything can be written in black and white, but on this point I want to make a firmer statement than the Minister has done so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u103	Mr Ganzevoort still needs a short word. You are not on the list of speakers, Mr Ganzevoort, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u104	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to confine myself to an explanation of vote, but I have to go to a committee meeting in a moment, hence. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance finds this whole debate interesting, but it is misplaced in this House, with permission. In substance, the Senate should not engage in art purchases or exhibition policy. And even though 80 million is a serious amount, if this proposal had been included in the regular OCW budget of over 30 billion, we would probably have dismissed that total budget as a hammer piece. We do not need symbolism or public opportunism, nor do we need this debate. We would not vote against it, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u105	Then we'll have to get back to work. A number of questions have been asked to the Minister. I assume she wants to answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u106	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the understanding I have heard from a number of Members of this House about the complex situation we have experienced over the last few months. I say to everyone, including Mr De Graaf and Mrs Bikker, that it is indeed important to keep thinking and at a quiet moment to evaluate what we can learn from this purchase, and perhaps also from that previous major art purchase, the Victory Boogie Woogie. Maybe we can go back even further in time, for example to Troelstra. Or the time of the sale of the portraits we're talking about today. History is not only interesting to get to know, but perhaps we can also learn lessons from it. That this kind of special purchases will never be easy, I'm sure. I'm gonna walk by the questions. Mr Atsma said that the dividend should actually go to the people. I agree with him. All the paintings in the Rijksmuseum are ultimately ours all. This will also apply to at least the Dutch part of this special diptych. I still find the idea of a tour of the provincial cities very interesting, but I agree with Mr De Graaf that this needs to be carefully considered. This will not be a decision that only the Rijksmuseum and the Dutch government will take, but we will take it together with the French. If for any reason that is not obvious, the inclusion of a normal loan is of course possible. The special relationship of Oopjen with the city of Leeuwarden and the fact that Leeuwarden becomes a cultural capital can be taken into account, but this is not a commitment on my part that a loan is arranged for 2018, let me be clear about that. I come to the motion tabled by Mr Kops of the PVV. It calls on the government to abandon the Rembrandt purchase and to devote the 80 million to care for the elderly. I advise against that motion, and that won't surprise me. This is contrary to the decision I have presented here. I also note that during the debates in the House of Representatives, such as the General Political Reviews or the General Financial Reviews, no proposals were made by the PVV to reverse this purchase or art property in general and to devote all these resources to the care of the elderly. Mr Kops asked for the 12.5 million in particular. This is an amount mentioned by the Rijksmuseum in the Volkskrant in relation to fundraising. My colleague, Minister of Finance Dijsselbloem, referred to this last week in the debate in the House of Representatives, including by saying that the Rijksmuseum had 12.5 million and the Empire would contribute 67.5 million. As I have just explained in detail, the 12.5 million has been withdrawn. I can no longer have any influence on this either, because these were contributions from private funds, such as the Rembrandt Fund and the Bank and Girolottery. It's no different. I see that I still have to answer Mr Atsma's question, namely whether the Louvre contributes to management and maintenance. Yeah, so does the Louvre, as well as the Rijksmuseum. That is the responsibility of both museums together. The agreements on special matters are further worked out, for example on restoration of the canvases. This includes material conditions, such as the budget and where the restoration takes place. Mrs Nooren asked another question about the export licence. I have already said that it did not have to come to that, because we had intensive discussions with the French, after it became known that they had 80 million available. A wide public debate took place there too. There was support for a contribution to those paintings, also given the connection with France. Because these paintings have been in France for a long time, there was in a more general sense a legal element. I'm glad we were able to work things out with the French the way we solved it. The question by Mrs Bikker, Mrs Nooren and Mr De Graaf on the consequences of shared or unshared ownership. There will be joint responsibility for two wedding portraits. I am not trying to go too far into legal jargon to indicate where we stand today: joint responsibility, not just for a year, but for an indefinite period. In the future, I will deal in particular with the aspect of the separate sale, I say to Mrs Bikker and Mrs Nooren. This joint responsibility and shared ownership means that we have to develop a lot of framework conditions, such as the form of transfer and ownership, management and maintenance, time limits for exchange and also the legal position of both countries, if one of the two countries wants to sell. All these legal aspects are a question of further elaboration. The right to first purchase is certainly also an option, I say to Mrs Gerkens. This is done in cooperation with the French government, both museums and the seller. I say to Mr De Graaf that we are doing this in good cooperation with the French. I would add that I think this is a good example of European cooperation in the cultural field. I can imagine that visitors in the Louvre see a reason to come to the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, and vice versa. I think there are elements in this too that I would like to develop to give a different perspective on cultural cooperation in Europe. I would be happy to inform the Chamber more about the development of the responsibilities afterwards. We're gonna work this out on a professional level now. I think we should trust the professionals in that. I ask for confidence in this, but of course I am willing to answer for the financial, legal and cultural aspects afterwards. I would also like to think again about whether there are other possibilities for a purchase, as Mr De Graaf said, because it can always happen again. In principle we have the museum purchase fund for this, but due to previous cuts and the large expenditure for these paintings there is indeed a limited amount of money in it. I told you, we want to supplement that in the short term. Whether another procedure is conceivable is something to think about. I'll just say that every time it's about really unique cases. I expect them to remain unique in the future. All I have to do is thank the Chamber for this pleasant debate. It has been noted that this is a special combination of two portraits. It's two portraits that belong together, which are actually married. There is now actually a marriage between two museums and two countries. They shouldn't be separated. I know that there is not always agreement in this Chamber on marriage, divorce and everything that goes with it, but I hope that I can say, like Mr De Graaf, that these paintings now have a special marriage and that they must stay together until death divorces them. I think paintings are immortal, so we can say they should always be together. I would add that they are also publicly owned and ultimately accessible to everyone; young and old, in France and in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u107	I note that Members want to vote on the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u108	Mr President, on a point of order. If the bill is passed, the motion is basically out of the question. Perhaps it would be more convenient to vote on the motion first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-06-eerstekamer-4.u109	That's possible if the Chamber doesn't mind. It's not the usual order, but we'll vote on the motion first.
