ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u1	We have seven speakers from the Chamber. The first is Mrs Siderius and she has asked for 20 minutes. That should do it. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u2	The chairman says it can also be shorter. That's probably gonna happen, but you're always gonna have to put in a security deposit. Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, the SP had its staff day. One of the elements of this day was a tour of the industrial heritage in Hengelo. We were allowed to visit the jewelry of the old Stork building. Stork used to build the machines for the textile industry, steam machines and spinning and weaving machines. The company Stork was known as social and innovative. A special feature of Stork was that it gave internal training to the workers who came to work there, for example at the iron foundries. Others with more fine motor skills, for example, started working in the design department. Stork had more or less his own company training. The rock of Twente today built a new building around that old iron foundries, a project where my brother was internship when he was in Mbo Engineering. For example, the future of vocational training and the emergence of craft training are still interlinked. That's beautiful. It is precisely the combination with working in practice that makes many students enthusiastic. The Minister's aim of making vocational education more flexible and attractive is therefore very commendable. In the meantime, the qualification files have become large and cumbersome. Therefore, some pruning in the qualification files would not hurt. By organising separate choices, it is possible to respond quickly to the current situation. Students can broaden their horizons or go deeper into the substance. The SP is in favour of this. Moreover, we can deal with the grumbling that education is often behind the facts and does not respond quickly enough to current developments. My group has a number of reservations about the introduction of the choices. It concerns, among other things, the limited choice for pupils, students who do not have to make enough for the choices, the calculation test and the language test, which account for more than professionally oriented parts, the problem of level 2 and the workload of teachers. The Minister has made the choice to link the choices to the qualification files. This limits the choice of the student. Students are now given the opportunity, in the note accompanying the report, to deviate from it in exceptional situations with motivation. A sensible decision and a step in the right direction, but the SP does not think that it is going far enough. The word "choice part" actually says it: students must have something to choose. Students can now bypass the limited choice, but there is still some kind of built-in blockade. My question to the Minister is whether it is better to eliminate this blockade as well. Is the Minister prepared to release the link with the qualification file? Schools can then advise students when choosing a part of their choice. Students have plenty of reasons to choose a part of their choice that does not fit in with the training they are undergoing. Perhaps they want to focus on another profession or the threshold is too high to change training already and can test another qualification via a choice. Perhaps the training of their preference is very far away and they can already taste through a choice part. It may also be that the choices for another qualification are just a bit more interesting. Students can thus make a much more personal choice and distinguish themselves more from others. The SP considers all of this to be legitimate reasons. This will also give the institutions much more scope to offer those choices which they consider most appropriate to their training, regional labour market and the identity of the school. In addition, this also gives some more air for smaller settings. If they have only a limited number of qualifications in their training offer, they have, by definition, a more limited choice. If the link is released or converted into advice, they also have a little more freedom in the offer. Of course, the criteria remain the same. A student should not choose a part of the choice that overlaps with the qualification associated with his or her training. The objective of the choice remains deepening or broadening. We would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to turn this link into opinions. A frequently asked question from students to teachers is whether a test counts. Almost every student or student will recognize that. As soon as the course is less important, they make less effort to do so. Exceptions always exist, but in practice you see that this happens a lot. They are very pragmatic in that. What makes a profession important? Or, to narrow it down, what makes a test important? This is equally true for whole subjects. Boxes that count less or not at all will always fall below boxes for which a sufficient amount has to be achieved. In addition, deepening or broadening is a valuable addition to the training of a student. This can be rewarded with an honourable mention on the diploma itself. Why should this enrichment not be part of the qualification? Is that because it doesn't directly have something to do with the profession itself or because it would be too heavy? We don't think so. Enrichment can only benefit and companies benefit from the broad employability through the greater wealth of the learner's knowledge and skills. The SP is therefore in favour of making getting the choices conditional for the diploma, and not just taking the exam. Even the Minister does not exclude, according to the note on the report, that this must be done. Why not immediately, and therefore prevent us from actually following the facts? I believe that this is also contained in Mr Van Meenen's amendment. I'd like to hear the Minister's response to that. Then we still have to talk about the calculation test or the calculation disaster; it is just what you want to call it. Cognitive subjects such as language, mathematics and English at level 4 receive a heavier weighting than the deepening or broadening of a pupil's knowledge in the field where it matters, namely the profession itself. It is too bizarre for words that a student-hairdresser cannot pass the diploma because he or she does not pass the language or the calculation test, while he or she can pass the diploma with insufficient parts that could make the job better as a hairdresser. I'd like to get a statement from the Minister on this. Especially for students at level 2 the calculation test appears not to be feasible. That, while they are able to stand for it professionally. Unfortunately, the figures show that many pupils at level 2 have to do with limitations, a difficult home situation or a different type of problem, much more than the pupils at the higher levels. This makes them a vulnerable group, which has difficulty with the cognitive components of the training. The language and calculation tests place the emphasis on these components. This threatens many pupils to leave school prematurely. Is that what the Minister wants to achieve? We don't think so. As far as we are concerned, the calculation test is becoming a calculus disaster and often the calculation test looks like a language test. The SP therefore proposes the following. We support the importance of good mathematics education. This can serve as support for the other subjects. This is also the way it should be in the case of vocational training. The test is no longer conditional on obtaining the diploma. However, it should remain possible to include the calculation test in the profile part of the qualification when it is necessary for the future profession. For example, I can imagine that, if you want to be an accountant, it's useful if you can calculate a little bit. I would like a response from the Minister to this proposal. Most institutions are already in the process of introducing the choices. The SP understands from teachers that the interpretation of the choices costs time and money. Is the time factor, in particular, facilitated by the Minister? Teachers would have been greatly helped with this. This saves the already not very low workload of many teachers and results in better quality material, which ultimately influences the student's satisfaction and level of knowledge. The workload in the MBO is a matter of attention anyway. The many administrative activities many teachers are a thorn in the eye. Does the Minister see the possibility of removing unnecessary red tape in the MBO? The Minister has already announced this for the HBO. Teachers work their way around to get the best out of students, but especially at levels 1 and 2 there is a lot to do. Some of the students have to do with youth care, probation or psychic assistance. The guidance of these students is just hard. The absenteeism among teachers in the MBO has unfortunately increased again in 2014. Also, zero absenteeism has fallen to less than half of the teachers. The SP considers this to be a worrying development, especially now that it appears that we spend 126 million a year in the MBO on default costs. With that money, of course, we could have hired more teachers and relieved the workload. Is the Minister prepared to focus on reducing the absenteeism of teaching staff in the MBO? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the so-called BAPO scheme aimed at promoting the participation of older people in education. Today it is called the senior scheme, because the old one has been deleted. The aim of this scheme is to increase the labour force of older people by reducing hours. The teacher's job is tough. Because political parties have felt that it is necessary to raise the age of AOW, this regime may be needed now more than ever. In the meantime, the scheme has been so undressed that it is not yet very far-fetched. What is the Minister going to do to meet the teachers in this respect? Choices offer many opportunities. We are pleased with that. However, there are points that need to be made even better. To sum up, we would like to propose the following four things: the decoupling of the choice of qualifications, the conditionality of obtaining the choices, the relief of students in the calculation test and the facilitation of teachers in entering, executing and keeping track of the choice parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u3	Mr. Chairman. When the budget was discussed in November last year, I spoke about Ahmed, a student at the ROC Zadkine, who wanted to learn how to program human technology in or alongside his studies. After all, he wanted to be able to build not only the technical solutions in homes for seniors, but also the apps to control those devices. However, programming was not in his heavily fought qualification file human technology. The training coordinator took off white when I suggested that the qualification file might have to be adapted to the developments surrounding the Internet of Things, where we can communicate not only with devices but also exchange information between devices. This revolution we all see coming and will change our lives a lot. Why did the training coordinator pull out white? It took seven years for the qualification dossier to come into being and, if adjusted, it provided for a new seven-year meeting circus. Seven years is a long time. Seven years ago there was no iPad, there was no Airbnb and Africa wasn't on the mobile phone yet. In seven years' time, hopefully, we will learn how to program in primary school, so the qualification file will no longer need to be adjusted. Too little, too late! Achmed would have been helped with choices. There are now, and that is good news, because every step that prepares our education for the future, a future in which education has to adapt more and more quickly to the needs of the labour market, is one. The choices can be changed and determined more quickly, especially in relation to the closed qualification files, and they offer the student an opportunity to look more broadly and beyond the prescribed course content of the training. This is urgently needed, because it is an illusion that students will find exactly the job that is one-to-one for their education and that they will keep for the rest of their lives. Those times are over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u4	Would Achmed also have been helped if programming were a subject in secondary education, for example an elective and an examination course? That brings me to the question of why the VVD voted against it when I proposed it. Or has the VVD come to the understanding that this is actually a very good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u5	We still believe that this is something I have shared with Mr Van Meenen on several occasions: it would be a good thing if there were attention to coding throughout education. However, we do not agree with introducing this only as a separate examination course in secondary education. We want an integrated approach. My colleague Mrs Straus hammers that over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u6	That was exactly my proposal. We'll get back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u7	We need to strike a balance between professional content, a broad basis for lifelong learning, and the opportunity for a student to build a unique CV, with which he or she is widely employable in the labour market. We must learn from "all the same" to customization and distinction. The VVD was somewhat disappointed when the bill on the regulation of choice came to the Chamber. Instead of freedom of choice, the choices seem to be much new polder and new bureaucracy. Precisely prescribes which choices can be followed in which qualification files, on which to meet at national level, deprives pupils of the chance to really broaden and build up a unique CV. I understand that it's more convenient for everyone to do the same part of the choice, but that can't be the intention. In that case, the Council of State will be right and this bill will be a restriction of free space rather than a strengthening of it. We therefore welcome the letter of amendment following our critical input into the legislative proposal. This change makes it possible for schools to deviate from the link between choice and qualification established by the polder. Of course, the choice should be complementary to the training, but I assume that the schools will be able to do the same. Give students the chance to follow their hearts in addition to the general training courses and their qualification part. I really think that we trust our students too little if we assume that they can't see for themselves what choice is going to help them. Many young people have a better idea of what the future will bring us than those who have been in the business for 30 years. Therefore, allow those young people the freedom to complete part of their training themselves. I think there will be a lot of beautiful new products and services from there. That's innovation. By looking over the fence at another field you come up with new ideas. This innovative capacity is the gold of our future labour market. Take that student hairdresser I spoke to the other day. She wanted to start her own hair salon after school, but not just a hair salon. Getting your hair cut was supposed to be an experience, a night out. She wanted to serve bubbles and snacks in her hairdressing salon. I saw it all in front of me, and I can't actually wait for that salon to show up! But to donate bubbles, you have to have experience in the hospitality industry and you need an alcohol license. Furthermore, you need social hygiene papers. The bill mentions hairdressing training as an example. The choices allowed by the polder are: nail stylist and afrokaper. What about the dream of my student hairdresser and my chances of bubbles at my haircut? With the letter of amendment, the Minister makes it possible for her to realize her dream. Thank you for that adjustment. I am counting on the flexibility of the educational institutions to enable these specific wishes of students to be carried out on a regular basis. Own initiative and passion must be rewarded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u8	Indeed, this was a restriction. The letter of amendment has made it a little easier. But actually, there's still a blockage. A student must then make a reasoned appeal to the exception. Wouldn't it be better if we also removed this blockade and therefore supported the SP amendment to decouple the choices from the qualification files? It will make it much easier for students to follow other qualifications.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u9	That was our idea at first. I understand, however, that this will lead to very complex constructions, combining a huge number of choices in training. The current letter of amendment offers all the space to students who want to deviate motivated and offers that link for the majority of students, which may have a less specific picture. We believe that the letter of amendment has resolved it sufficiently, but we would also like to await the Minister's response to Mrs Siderius's amendment. I still have a few questions about how it all works and who decides what. Should applications for choice be submitted jointly by education, industry and inter-branch organisations? Or can one of the three parties also submit a request to SBB? Can schools develop their own choice and then have it tested by SBB? Or should SBB determine the content? SBB's brochure gives that last impression. In my view, this would be somewhat cumbersome and would also limit schools' ability to distinguish themselves from each other. How long will there be between the application and the Minister's final approval? How does the Minister ensure that regional differences are taken sufficiently seriously by SBB? The labour market may vary considerably at regional level, while SBB is still mainly organised on a sectoral basis. I mention again the example of De Vries Makkum in Friesland, where in the yacht building a selection part 'lass' could very well be combined with a choice part'make furniture', because they both occur in the yacht building. However, that does not seem to me to be something that SBB might come up with. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is a heavy burden on the shoulders of the organized polder to show that it is not a bureaucratic moloch, but can react quickly and agilely to the changes in the labour market, which lead to the desire for new or other choices. To be honest, I'm a little worried about that. So I would like to receive a response from the Minister to the question of how to avoid a bureaucratic circus. The responsiveness of the courses is essential for the future of our students, but these courses indicate that they run into the polder, which limits them precisely in that response. Another concern that we have concerns the lack of commitment. The choices do not count for whether or not to obtain an MBO diploma. Mrs Siderius mentioned that as well. As far as we're concerned, that's a missed opportunity, because what message do we actually deliver when we say: you have to follow it and you also have to take the exam, but it doesn't count. As far as we are concerned, this is not the right signal for both the student and the educational institution. I want choices taken seriously from day one. Indeed, it is the way to keep training agile and adapted to the labour market in a system that still does not excel in responsiveness. If we commit students to deepening and broadening, let us reward them for their efforts and make the choices count for their degrees. I am sure that will also provide a serious and good offer through the schools. Therefore, the VVD has tabled an amendment to include the choices from the school year starting in 2017 not only on the diploma, but also on the success/pocket scheme. We are slightly different from the Van Meenen amendment, which states that a sufficient one must be achieved. As far as we're concerned, they're just gonna count in the whole beating/pocket scheme. The law on choice is a step in the right direction when it comes to adapting MBO training to the rapidly changing labour market. But the VVD is not satisfied with 15% of the educational content that becomes responsive. The whole training needs to be responsive. That is why we are in favour of an accreditation system, so that the vocational part of training can be adapted more quickly and regionally differentiated. We submitted that wish to the Minister during the budget debate in November 2014. This desire to accredit, as in HBO, has now been taken over by the MBO Council in its future vision. I see this bill as an opportunity to take a step in the right direction. In assessing the choices, the SBB will in fact already act as a kind of accreditation committee. It therefore seems appropriate to follow closely the assessment of the choices made by the SBB, so that we can look at the extent to which the SBB can also play a role in the accreditation of new training courses for which, for example, there is no qualification dossier yet, but a demand on the labour market. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. I look forward to the Minister's letter on further future proof of the MBO following our pamphlet and the Lucas/Jadnansing motion. Because although we are taking a step in the right direction today, we are far from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u10	I would like to ask one more question about the amendment. Do I understand correctly that there is a transitional period of one year, and that the results of the choices in the first year do not count and then do they? If so, why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u11	Yes, we have opted for a phased import. From this year on you can experiment with the choices. From the following year, they are mandatory. As far as we're concerned, they're gonna count the year after that, so we're gonna give training a chance to gain a little experience, but keep the pressure on the kettle, because they're gonna count very quickly. That is why I proposed not to wait until an evaluation in 2025 or so, but to do so quickly, so that training courses know that they are going to count very quickly and so they should seriously start offering the choices after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u12	But in my view, the amendment was argued, among other things, that it is important for pupils to count.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u14	Doesn't that apply in the first two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u15	In the first year it is not mandatory anyway, so it is difficult to count them. We want to give one year in which to gain experience, and then count them, so that students do not suffer but benefit from the fact that training is going to take this quickly and seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u16	Mr. Chairman. In vocational education, it's about learning a profession, a profession that you like and that offers opportunities in the labour market. That labour market is changing fast. New times call for new professions, but also offer new opportunities. This calls for the renewal of training, hence the revision of the qualification structure. That is a big blow, but it is very important for the MBO that this happens. It is about what students need to learn on the MBO and how we can set it up so that it fits in with the changes in the labour market. The new structure has three pillars: the compulsory part, the basic part, the part specific to the profession, the profile part, and finally the choice part, in which students can put their own accents and choose what interests them. Today, those choices are central. Let me point out that D66 is positive about that. It means more opportunities for students to deepen and broaden. That makes customization possible. It means that MBO and HBO can offer by mutual agreement choices that improve the flow. It also means that it is possible to respond to the needs of regional businesses and to respond more quickly to the changing labour market. That's all profit for D66. Nevertheless, I have a number of questions. I will deal with whether or not to include the choices for the diploma, the possibility and speed of offering new choices and the question whether the Minister will also give an impetus to the Lifelong Learning Agenda with these choices. I have tabled an amendment on electives and examination, which means that the electives do count for the bag/layer scheme, and thus for obtaining the diploma. My group does not follow the Minister's reasoning. She wants to stimulate students to deepen and broaden, but she doesn't want to encourage them to commit, because she doesn't let the results count for the diploma. That sounds inconsistent. There must be an examination in the choices, but the results do not count. My group does not follow that logic. Moreover, in a number of cases, the part of the choice replaces an old qualification file, for example for the hairdressers mentioned above. It would seem reasonable to ask students to just pass the exam for that. I am therefore curious about the Minister's explanation. Then offering new choices. What is the role of students in this? Can they also submit new proposals for their choice, for example through the Council of Participants, so that education meets their wishes? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. And how long should it take for a choice to be introduced? How flexible is this procedure, for example for regional businesses? It seems to be a rather cumbersome process, with the submission of a proposal on a website, the approval by sector chambers and the determination by the minister; then it still needs to be integrated into the educational supply. How long should all this take and what is the need for this procedure? I would like to receive an explanation of that. Then my final point: the relationship between the choices and Lifelong Learning. It is good to suggest that people who are already at work or who want to re-enter are ambitious and therefore want to be educated, or perhaps even want to go higher. D66 wants to encourage such ambitions. It would therefore be a good idea for these people to be able to take choices, to take tests and, if they succeed, to obtain a certificate. This could be an entrepreneur who deals a lot with companies in a particular country and therefore wants to learn a language, or someone who wants to acquire the latest techniques and developments in his field in order to continue to meet the requirements of a rapidly changing market. Can the Minister explain the possibilities of the new choices for these people? In view of the Lifelong Learning Agenda, is it prepared to encourage institutions to offer these choices to people with ambition who are already working or re-entering and who want to be educated or retrained? This legislative change enables tailor-made work and can ensure greater integration into the labour market. This is all a gain, but we must continue to try to stimulate ambitious students, cormorants and re-enterers to achieve the best results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u17	Mr. Chairman. This bill is part of the revision of the qualification structure and its implementation in the MBO. One of the elements of that review is the introduction of the choices. It is now only the compulsory introduction of the choices; the other elements do not require any legislative change. The qualification structure is revised to improve the substantive link to the labour market and the follow-up dossier by reducing the number of qualification dossiers. That's good. For removing the overlap between qualifications, because it was quite there. That's good, too. For a better description of qualification requirements and a better feasibility of education. And for strengthening the regional component and customization options. That's all very nice. In the revised qualification structure, each qualification is made up of one basic part and a profile part and that is where those choices come in. As a result, each new training will be based on a qualification and one or more choices. Educational institutions are obliged to offer one or more options for each training. Those choices are indicated on the diploma, but the attainment of those choices is not a condition for obtaining a diploma. My question to the Minister is: why was this chosen? Isn't there a danger of non-committality here? That is something we must avoid. Because the labour market varies from one region to another, this change of law makes it possible for MBO schools to add their own choices to training. The PVV supports that. For example, with these choices, schools can respond quickly to all kinds of current developments in business. 3D printing has already been mentioned. We can also think of robotisation and of technology in healthcare. At the time of Rutte I, the PVV has already fully supported the legislative proposal on the revision. This legislative amendment is part of that revision of the qualification structure and therefore for us of added value. Mrs Lucas' amendment to include the option for the complete beating/pocket scheme is appealing to us. For example, we do justice to the choice part and to those hardworking students who have the ambition to deepen or broaden a course with the chosen part of choice. That appeals to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u18	Mr. Chairman. Anyone who sees professionals working during a renovation can become jealous of their skills and techniques. That's inspiring. This may have inspired the Minister to come up with proposals for full-scale vocational education. The Chamber has now received a diptych, in which on the left the vmbo can be found and on the right the mbo. Today we are discussing the right side of the diptych: the introduction of compulsory choices in the MBO. In fact, we should discuss both parts of the diptych at the same time in order to have a good picture. First of all, the SGP would like the Minister to make a comparison between the two proposals for preparatory vocational education and vocational training itself. There are a number of inexplicable differences for the SGP. Both the vmbo and the mbo have the structure of a general part, a profile part and a free choice part. Why is the three-stage rocket, which is very insightful in itself, not so clearly incorporated into the law for the MBO? Furthermore, the government chooses to let the free space in the vmbo simply be part of the total package, while the choice part in the mbo is placed outside the qualification. Why this distinction? I would like to add my voice to what a number of colleagues have said. There is currently no clear picture of the interpretation of the free space in the MBO. There are also no figures to support problems that would exist. The government recognizes that as well. In support of the proposal, the government relies on a 2010 report. If you go through that report, there is no justification for the problem. It is pointed out, but it is also not clear from that report that a firm justification of the extent of the problem of the implementation of free space is not clear. It does, however, set out a direction of thought, which in turn offers more scope than the present proposal offers. Would the Minister care to comment on these backgrounds? Isn't a more cautious approach desirable if the evidence of problems is so flimsy? The SGP also sees choice as a good way to support institutions in filling out the free space, but before we completely abolish the present free space, we would like to take more time to test the plans in practice. In the government's view, the elements of choice are enriching and can also be general. The SGP also considers this important. At the same time, the government reports that citizenship cannot in any case be an option. The SGP is keen to hear why the government is immediately rejecting this approach. Why can't citizenship be broader than the subjects covered in the regular programme, a citizenship programme plus, as it were? What about enriching themes such as ethics, moral formation and religious formation? The SGP likes to see more room for choice in this atmosphere. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Currently, institutions can use the free space to offer, for example, a philosophical profession. Due to the mandatory choices, the space for such subjects disappears. In the SGP's view, this is an undesirable development. This does not usually lead to bottlenecks, but at least one institution is aware of its problems. Specifically, it concerns the Hoornbeeck College, reformatorical mbo, with several branches in our country. This is also mentioned in the Government's response. If the aim is to improve choice, it cannot be that the possibilities for profiling institutions are reduced? I assume that this is an unintentional side effect. Can the government confirm that? I would also like to hear a response to my amendment to prevent this problem. The government sees choices as whipped cream on the cake: they are enriching but not necessary. The choice space is therefore placed outside the qualification. The SGP understands that this choice is a positive one, but the feeling remains that it sends a negative signal. Is a part of the choice not more than whipped cream, and part of the cake? In fact, there are elements in the choices which are inextricably linked to the qualification. It doesn't sound very successful that you can get a diploma while you're down to a 15% block. That's not inspiring, not encouraging for students. It's not a commercial for the MBO either. Students in vocational education who have made a conscious choice usually do not mind if results of their choice are also expected. This applies to more students than just MBO students. Like the government, the SGP does not consider it desirable to charge pupils for requirements that are not necessary. The government cites the example of a good carpenter from Nijmegen, who is failing due to poor control of the German language. However, this example concerns a carpenter who himself chooses German in the section of his choice. The basis is in order, but why should we not even expect minimal results? We would say: the basis on order, the bar up, following a motto of the Ministry of Education not so long ago. The government extends the options to choose choices that are not directly linked to the qualification. That's a nice move for the student. There is a responsibility for the institution to do so. When I read that paragraph, I rose, I say it in all modesty and all decency, the hairs rose. Up to the level of choice each pupil makes, a school must then justify why the choice made by that pupil has been or has not been honoured. This can't be happening. This is a responsibility that you really... now I swallow some words my mother won't let me use. In secondary education there is also free space. Students sometimes make a choice related to their profile boxes and sometimes a choice that is not at all related to profile boxes. Okay! The students meet the study hours and it is accepted. Why should this be brought under such a heavy regime at the MBO? In the development of choice, the involvement of business is often essential. At the same time, it is clear that this contribution will not be equally strong with each part of the choice. Can the government confirm that it is not intended to apply the requirement of involvement rigidly? In fact, could it be that business does not really have to deal with some of the choices? In over a year's time, the government wants to start with the choices. However, the government indicates that there is still a great deal of uncertainty about that part. There is little experience of development, let alone its application. Why not take more time to gain experience with front-runners before putting the current rules overboard? I thought that was one of the basic lessons we drew from the report of the Dijsselbloem Commission. Is there a risk that mandatory introduction with a non-binding result could also counter the image of the choices and the image of the MBO as such? With that, we would get back as a boomerang what we want to throw far from us. It is a question of re-evaluation of the MBO, of putting in place a strong training system. Then we must not put this in a position of disadvantage in advance with all kinds of half-hearted or inadequate measures. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u19	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is positive about the revision of the qualification structure and the idea of introducing, alongside the basic part and the profile part, optional parts and allowing students to choose for themselves. The CDA would like to congratulate the Minister and express its appreciation for her attention to the shaping role of the MBO. The word "Bildung" now falls into almost every interview given by the minister. This promises some of the announced plans to strengthen this. The CDA shares with the Minister that MBO training should be linked to the labour market, but that they also have an important forming function. Much has changed in recent times in the MBO, such as the qualification structure and the increase in teaching hours, but unfortunately there is also more State interference with the curriculum. The majestic mathematics test, Mr Siderius, is an example of this. Even with this change of law, schools will be given less room to offer choices based on their own vision or didactical considerations. The scope for schools to offer electives that are independent of the qualification is almost entirely limited. The Minister calls this restriction euphemistically 'framework', but the bottom line is that what is now free space will soon be choices which must, by definition, be focused on the labour market, on the economic usefulness of training, which will make schools less distinct from each other. In the note following the report, the Minister states that the choices will allow schools to respond quickly and effectively to developments in the labour market or to the wishes of business. But what does schools do to do that already? Can it indicate the scope for this change of law that those schools do not have now? I would like to stress one more positive point. The CDA is pleased that the long-cherished desire to follow parts at a higher level is possible. Then we are still curious how this will be recorded. Can the Minister explain this? Is that on the certificate as a note or as a separate certificate? Finally. The CDA does not see why MBO schools should not be allowed to deviate from compulsory choices, as recommended by the Council of State. Can the Minister explain this one more time? Is it willing to offer explicit scope in the choices, for example for personal education, religious education or remedial choices? An amendment along these lines is now being distributed. If that space is offered, we will turn away from the path of further standardisation of education and maintain a multiform and wide-ranging vocational education. I think we should all want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u20	Mr. Chairman. For more than five years, I have organized a pizza session with young people almost every Wednesday evening to discuss matters which concern them and which they believe we, the politicians, should have more regard for. We don't always talk about education and we don't always talk about the MBO, but three weeks ago I had a group on the floor that wanted to talk about the integration of their education into the labour market. They were concerned about their opportunities and opportunities, even if it is often said in the newspaper that there is a risk of mismatch between what they learn in the educational institution and what business will soon ask of them in the labour market. It is therefore a good thing that we are talking today about an important part of the revision of the qualification structure, namely the choices. The new choices offer educational institutions the opportunity to equip young people better and wider and to make them more adaptable to the labour market. The expected effects are greater job opportunities, more substantive challenge and better distinguishing for business. It is good that the teaching of additional training to MBOs is now made less voluntary, so that one can see in the outside world of the diploma what special, additional skills an MBO masters at which level. The PvdA Group attaches great importance to the fact that institutions can respond to changes in the labour market with the choices. In this respect, it is a good thing that the determination of choice can take place four times a year and that the review process takes up to three months. I believe that any young person, whether or not enjoying a pizza point, can agree to this. At the same time, it's quite something. After all, choice means that you also have to be able to choose consciously, in so far as there is something to choose for the younger person. Many young people can do that well, whether or not they are helped by parents, friends or others. But in conversations in schools and in community centers I often hear from a lot of young people that all these choices are not so easy yet. To what extent has proper choice guidance been taken into account in the implementation of the plans? To what extent, for example, do study career counsellors have an insight into these new developments? Were they included in this? It's a lot to guide young people to an informed choice. In addition to the guidance, which I find very important, I would also like to know how young people are informed about the choices and about the opportunities for work and internship, precisely by making that informed choice for a part of their choice. I fully endorse the starting point for providing more challenge and opportunities for young people. I have a number of questions about the implementation. What is the offer the student can choose from? Is that the offer of the school, the training or the whole register of choice? The wider the range of choice of an institution, the more costly it will be. Does this mean that most institutions are likely to choose to comply with the mandatory provision of choice only at a minimum? To what extent do student councils and decentralised student councils have control over the offer of choice? In what way are they involved? To what extent can they participate in an early stage of decision-making? Making a choice from an attractive offer that responds to current developments, innovations and regional needs is the beginning, but how do you ensure that young people remain motivated to achieve such an option if that does not count for the diploma? In itself, I understand that the development of choices is pioneering work on which you cannot immediately pay off MBOs. But how seriously will young people take this choice in the current construction? The Minister refers in the note following the report to the indication of the choice of the diploma. This concerns both the parts of the choice obtained and the parts of the choice that have been followed but which have not been obtained. Is it conceivable that after a few weeks some MBOs conclude that the part of choice they started is not for them at all? How big is the risk that they simply have to muddle the part of the choice for bacon and beans until the end? The Minister does not exclude that in future, on the basis of the actual functioning of the choices, the attainment of the choices is made conditional for obtaining an MBO diploma. Does the Minister have any idea how long it will be possible to make a statement on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u21	Thank you. In five minutes, the Minister will answer the various questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u22	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the words that Members have spoken about the importance of well-trained professionals, because they do determine the future of our country. If the Netherlands is to continue to make a difference, it is necessary that all the talents and opportunities of people are exploited. Secondary vocational education, the MBO, must provide a thorough preparation for that labour market, which is changing very quickly, but the MBO must be more than just training for the labour market. It also has an important emancipatory task to offer opportunities to all young people. The MBO should mainly be in line with rapid changes that are taking place. These relate to the labour market, but also to changing ideas about bildung, I will say to Mr Rog once more. These rapid changes, to which many members have referred, require a lot of teachers, schools and pupils. I have heard Mrs Siderius say about it and Mrs Lucas also said it sharply: 'the internet of things' asks us to be able to relate to this rapid dynamic. I also heard Mr Van Meenen say: we must respond to this dynamic labour market. That demands something from everyone, from teacher to driver. It calls for a permanent effort and focus to maintain and improve the quality and relevance of education wherever possible. The challenge is great. We are discussing a part of this, a part of it, but that challenge is actually much broader. The whole process Ample job for craftsmanship is aimed at connecting with that changing society. I also refer to my letter from last year on this subject, following on from Focus on craftsmanship. We are looking at how we can respond to the dynamics of the labour market and the changing demands that we continue to impose on citizens and how we can increase the variety and differentiation. With this bill we are discussing the revised qualification structure, which introduces electives. This makes an important contribution to increasing the MBO's response to developments and innovations in the labour market. This allows students to better profile themselves and to better match the student's ambition and the educational offer. Mrs Lucas said that she was passionate about the examples she gave: we want to further stimulate the innovative capacity, from the student's own perspective, but preferably also from the school. A student with the ambition to become a professional or craftsman chooses a part of his choice that focuses on further specialisation or wider employability. That could be something that fits in with one's own training, one floor. It may also be as in the example Mrs Lucas and others mentioned, the example of the barber who also wants to give bubbles. You could call that a broadening. A choice can also be a further training, because let's not forget that there is not much to say about this. The choice can also be very well used to flow to HBO. Then the choice part prepares someone for further education. With the revision of the qualification structure, I sought to strike a good balance between the recognizability and value of an MBO diploma at national level and the scope for tailor-made work at regional and individual level. The revision contributes to more tailor-made work for the student by differentiation of the educational offer with choice parts. I have heard very well what several Members have said and asked for; I will come back to that in a moment. And I'll get back to you in a minute. This review also contributes to a faster and better response to changes and innovations in the labour market and to the wishes of business and further education. The revised structure also provides a better starting point for improving the efficiency of education. The structure of basic and profile parts in the qualification files allows for more effective and efficient programming of education. We have indeed greatly reduced the number of qualifications files; I am pleased that several Members, including Mr Beertema, have also pointed this out. The number of qualification files has been reduced by 25% to 176. They're also more global. Mrs Lucas mentioned a challenge for the polder. It is also a compliment to the polder in the MBO that they have managed to make the qualification files much more timely and to give more space to schools and students. Having said that, there are four themes I would like to address. First of all, I will deal with the linking of electives and qualifications. Several Members have asked questions and tabled amendments. Then I will follow up with electives and the diploma, the revision of the qualification structure, and I will take into account in particular the questions of philosophy and implementation in practice. I'll start with the clutch. It has been asked why only a derogation is allowed from the mandatory linking of electives to qualifications and why the link is not completely abandoned. I note that Mrs Siderius has tabled an amendment on this point. 10 has tabled a motion for a resolution (Doc. She says students should be able to choose something. I agree that students should be able to choose something, but the question is how much you want them to be able to choose and how you organise it in a good way. We found that one of the reasons for changing the form of training was that the current system does not provide enough structure and does not allow sufficient choice to fit in with vocational training. I have already given the letter of amendment more freedom for the school's administration to deviate from the link to qualifications established by the ministerial regulation, at the request of the participant, in the provision of choice in vocational training. Mrs Lucas and others have already pointed this out. This means that a participant can also opt for choices that are not linked to a qualification on which his vocational training is based. However, the coupling is not completely released. This is done precisely because of the function of the clutch. The link makes visible and ensures that the relevance of a part of the choice for the qualification in question is clear and so you make it clear what the part of the choice adds to the qualification. This can be done by the school provider, but with the letter of amendment this can also be done on a proposal from a student, who must have a good story. What I also want to avoid is that there is no overlap of the elective part with the qualification. A student could opt for English, for example, according to Mrs Siderius' amendment. However, if you do mbo-4, English is already in the general section and then a choice part does not add anything. I want the part of the choice to be aimed at and will lead students to choose something that means an enrichment on top of the qualification. It must have an added value for the exercise of the profession or for the movement towards further education. That is precisely what prevents the proliferation of choice parts. As I said, we have fortunately reduced the number of qualifications by 25%. I would not want a whole new proliferation of choices to arise. It is also important to highlight the civil impact of the coupling. We do not want to let it go, because social partners also stress the importance of this link so that students and employers know what they can count on after training.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u23	I do not understand the Minister's concerns, because in this overlap, this is what the explanatory statement of the amendment says, namely that someone should choose a part of the choice where there is no overlap with the qualification in question. For example, if you are training towards economics and entrepreneurship, I can imagine that you think: for me, sharing choices in the context of media, communication and marketing could be very relevant. The student must now first make a reasoned claim to the exception. However, we could also give confidence to the professionals, the teachers in the MBO. They have an advisory function vis-à-vis the students; each student also has a mentor. Let us put our trust there so that we can make the decoupling complete. Then we do not have to implement all kinds of bureaucratic application procedures. So please let us leave that trust with the teacher and give the teacher the task of advising the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u24	The letter of amendment allows this to be done to a considerable extent, because a student can submit such a proposal. Let me answer the question of Mrs Lucas, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop whether such an application for choice should always be submitted jointly by everyone; education, industry and trade associations; or whether it can also be submitted by one of the three. Parties can do so together, but one of them can do so. Students can choose from the current selection offer provided by the school during the course. At the request of the student, the school may also allow him to choose a part of another course. This is, for example, a part of the choice that is not linked to the qualification of his training. In this case, the student can choose from the school's total choice of choice for his personal development and career development. This gives freedom but with some limitation to prevent the relationship with the qualification from getting too loose, the civil effect disappears and a proliferation of electives is created. In my opinion, this has meant that we have found a reasonable balance between greater freedom, more responsiveness and differentiation on the one hand, and the prevention of wild growth on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u25	This limitation also creates a very bureaucratic application procedure. Students will then have to apply and apply for this derogation. That's gonna bring back all kinds of paperwork. That's just what we don't want. We have to trust the teacher. The idea that choices will then suddenly arise everywhere is nonsense, because those choices must be put together by the institution, the business community and other cooperating partners. Those should be approved by the Review Chamber. In the end, the Minister must put her stamp on it. So that wild growth isn't the issue at all. We must try to reduce the bureaucracy of application procedures as much as possible and give the teacher the confidence to advise on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u26	I agree that we should limit this bureaucracy as much as possible. That is why we have started this whole undertaking, we have severely restricted the qualification files and adapted the whole procedure so that, unlike Mrs Lucas' story, a process can not last more than seven years but can be submitted four times a year and last three months. That's why a school can submit its own. If we release this completely, it would mean that the added value of choice over qualification could be eliminated. I will come back to what I have heard from Mrs Siderius and others in order to make choices more relevant to the bag/layer scheme. If that becomes completely free, it will be a very difficult task. If you're going to count that even more sharply, the chances that the student will be very high on the basis of an individual choice, which is not further prepared through the SBB. And that seems undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u27	I have the impression that there is too much fear of cold water here. If we do this right, then we really do not need all these cramped, detailed regulations. In secondary education you do have a mandatory part, you have a profile part, you have a part of the profile part, and you have a free space. In principle, all these subjects count equally, each with its own status. Some compartments count more heavily in the bag/layer control, because they belong to the profile part. There is no reason to rule out subjects that are too cramped and to say: you cannot choose those and those subjects. I would ask the Minister to take a closer look at this, because this is going to regulate itself. If you set clear requirements for such a field in free space, it regulates itself. These will often be subjects that belong to other sectors but can be offered. I would ask the Minister to take another look at this at some distance and then fly it off another route. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u28	I've done it very extensively. I have come to the conclusion that it is not desirable to leave it freer, because then you will have choices that do not need added value for qualification and which may not have added value for further training. And that is exactly what we want. Someone must choose choices that have added value compared to the qualification. That may be a deepening, broadening or the step towards further education, but that cannot be something that everyone thinks: then I choose the easiest choices. It must really be a targeted choice, precisely because I think it is so important that the choice part is not something separate but really part of the whole training. The difference with the one you are asking for is that in the draft legislation on profiles in the VMBO the competent authority of an MBO institution cannot itself establish and make compulsory programme parts, because the MBO does not know any subjects. That is why it is a different regulation from the vmbo system, although we are trying to improve the connection between vmbo and mbo with the profiles that are now being created at vmbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u29	This does not alter the fact that the choices can be arranged in the same way as the boxes in the box. As far as I am concerned, there is still a risk of confusion. Will MBO students be allowed to choose a part of the choice for their personal education or not? Or should it really have a link with vocational training or broadening the profile? I think I read in the reply that there is room for personal education, but I hear the Minister say that the link must be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u30	Personal education can also have a link with the qualification. I can see that broad. A student can choose from the current choice offered by the school during the course. Those are the choices linked to the training. With the letter of amendment, a student can argue for something else. Mrs Lucas has set a fine example of a hairdressing course. It does not include hospitality or parts of hospitality, but if someone has a good idea, it can be argued. However, it must be argued. In my opinion, this makes it easier for the student, the student and the school. After all, one can choose from the total range of choices. It also means that schools can make it organizational and that there is a balance between enrichment on top of qualification. There is therefore an added value and the civil effect is maintained. If it's not clear yet, I'll say it formally again. I would advise against Mrs Siderius' amendment. Mr Van Meenen said it was cumbersome. I understand that the whole structure of the MBO, with the new role of the SPB, which we may still have to get used to, sometimes seems cumbersome. We have taken really great steps to ensure that we create speed and responsiveness and at the same time counter the lack of commitment that we now have and the lack of transparency that we now have. It was the Hermans/Van Zijl Committee that previously advised to give a clear target destination to free space, for example further specialisation, a deepening of regional labour market needs or additional HBO preparation. This is also in response to Mr Bishop, who asked me to repeat the background to these proposals. Among other things, civil value and transparency are important in the Review Chamber, but the whole process is now organised in such a way that the overall review process lasts up to three months. This can therefore be done much faster, depending on the proposal submitted. It can be done four times a year. I believe that we have struck a balance. I believe I have answered Mr Rog's question on civil impact. So far, the clutch. Many spokesmen have asked questions about the relationship with the diploma, in particular the bag/slag scheme. The VVD mentioned that a missed opportunity, the PVV I heard talking about non-binding, Mrs Siderius asked if it should not be part of the sack/slapping scheme and Mr Van Meenen, like Mrs Lucas, has tabled an amendment. I'll get to that in a minute. A student must therefore choose between choices in such a way that they are consistent with the enrichment or broadening or continuation of the training. The introduction of choice sharing is a real challenge for schools, students, teachers and also for the learning companies involved. I want to give them time to gain experience with this change. That is why I have chosen not to make it conditional at the moment on obtaining a diploma. In addition, the introduction of choices also has consequences that we cannot yet overlook. These are related to other measures we take, such as Focus on craftsmanship and Ample job for craftsmanship, and the effects of choice parts themselves. The bar for students is really much higher with the introduction of choice parts. 'The basis on order' is therefore exactly what we want, as I say to Mr Bishop. By raising the bar with choices, that's all going to happen. If the bar for students is raised, it could directly count as a result of obtaining the diploma, leading to an increase in the number of early school leavers. After all, you want students to obtain their degrees and not to suffer from the introduction of a certain system too soon. I hardly dare to say it, but we are also having this discussion here in the context of another subject, namely the calculation test and good computational education. So I think it is very important that we do not introduce the choices, if we want to include them in the bag/layer scheme, because we should first give schools, learning companies and everyone else time to learn how to work with choices. Given the dynamics behind it, the short lead time and also the choice of students, that counts extra heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u31	I understand the Minister wants to give the schools that chance. However, it is striking that the MBO Council itself, on the basis of the message that we have tabled the amendment to make it count more quickly, suggests that this idea is very worthwhile. They put that on Twitter. So I assume the schools themselves want this to just count. Then who are we protecting from who? I think the schools want it, too. The JOB has also indicated that it's important that it just counts, so I don't understand why we're making such a big deal about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u32	I haven't heard that message from the MBO Council yet. I do know a letter from the JOB. Contrary to what Mrs Lucas has just said, they have indicated that they think it is important that choices should be followed. I wholeheartedly agree with them. Choices are therefore not without obligation. It's not something you can add just a little bit for fun, and you can see if it's still listed anywhere. You have to do it. All we're saying is that getting the diploma doesn't depend on the result of the choices. That's what the JOB wants. This is because it recognises that without this additional content the student becomes a fully-fledged practitioner. I would like to repeat Mrs Lucas's example of the student hairdresser who wants to donate bubbles. That's her choice. Suppose she doesn't make it, she wouldn't be able to work as a hairdresser if the part of her choice was included in the bag/layer control. With the choice part she can show that she has something extra in her house. Let me give you another example. Someone in the border region does carpentry training and obtains the qualification carpenter. However, he also finds it interesting to work across the border in Germany and he therefore does the German option. However, he finds that difficult and fails to do so. If we were to include the choice, this person would not be able to work as a carpenter even after obtaining the diploma; he would have to do the German option first. I would like to talk about making it possible, in the long term, to include the choice, because many groups think it is desirable to include it, but it is also about temporalisation. If we were to do this right now, the two people from the examples I have given would not be able to get to work. If we include the choice part directly, I fear that schools will opt for very clear and easy choices and will leave less room for students' own choice. The effect of this could be to reduce the greater freedom that we want to create for students, a wish which I too hear here and which I have expressed in the letter of amendment.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u33	The main difference is that the Minister assumes that the students mentioned will not make the choice. I assume that, if they make a motivated choice, they will be able to choose something that their heart is based on the extra space provided for in the letter of amendment. However, it will be much more important for schools to take the matter seriously if the choice is to count for the diploma. I believe that this guarantees that schools will work to offer good choices and also to put the best teachers in the classroom, and not the ones that just happened to be left with the rota. I assume the schools will take this seriously. For that reason, the part of the choice has to count. The same reasoning applies to the calculation test. It's not taken seriously until it counts. My amendment states that we can take a year to get used to the choice, but that it should be introduced afterwards. If we wait until 2020, I fear that far too little will happen until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u34	I don't share that fear. It is precisely if we want the choice to lead to real innovation that we must encourage new choices to be created, which are in line with the changing labour market. If we say that the elective part is going to count, while schools want all their students to get their degrees, they will show strategic behavior and very quickly opt for easy choices. I don't think that's desirable. I can imagine that we are considering whether we can bring the option part under the bag/layer scheme in the long term. However, we differ on the moment when we can do this responsibly. I would not do that already in 2017-2018, as proposed in the amendment, because then we will only have one year to go. However, we could consider whether we could do it in 2018-2019. We will monitor, so after the academic year 2016-2017 we can see how things are going, whether the introduction of the choice part is innovative and responsive enough and whether schools handle it well. At that time, we could make the choice conditional. I do not know the tweet of the MBO Council, but it has been whispered to me that this tweet is about the letter of amendment and not about the bag/layer scheme. Both the JOB and the MBO Council are therefore opposed to the direct inclusion of the selection part in the bag/layer scheme. If they have any other information, I'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u35	I do not understand that the Minister states that, if people now choose a choice, they will go for the easy route if that counts, but that will not be the case in 2019. I just don't understand that. Why does the Minister think that in 2019 it can count and people no longer choose an easy part of the choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u36	Schools need to get used to sharing choices. They also know that we weigh up the programme with choices for students. Schools would like their students to get a diploma. All in all, just because it's new, could provoke strategic behavior. That's why I'm saying this. Let's see how it works, whether schools are indeed as well prepared for choices as we all hope and whether they are actually encouraging innovative choices rather than choosing the safe route of simply doing what is easy and obvious. Let's see how it goes with the monitoring and evaluation. Let's do all of that before we let students suffer from overly quick implementation of housing in the bag/layer scheme. I do see a parallel here with the debate on the calculation test, however different we think about it. That's where it's playing, too. I don't think it's a responsible way to do it right away. However, in the context of Mrs Lucas' amendment, I would say that if the date were to be postponed slightly and there would be a little more room after the official introduction next year, namely two years, to look at what is happening and to monitor, I would, in principle, accept that, if it is justified, I would bring it to the bag/layer scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u37	I think that is at least the profit of this discussion. My final question is as follows. Can the Minister imagine that, if the calculation test is to be taken into account in education, we are all going to try to avoid that, for example, a student who is home-grown with German television and is a rock in the German language, with such an option in any case still has a profession with which he can compensate? So it doesn't just have negative aspects. Such a choice can also be very positive. I hope the Minister will at least think of that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u38	Yeah, it could be. I'm not opposed to ever doing it. I want that flywheel. I really want us to innovate with choir parts. I also want choices to be introduced so responsive and innovative that they can also become part of the qualification itself. We haven't talked about that yet. That really is a form of innovation. And sometimes a part of the choice that is only interesting for a small group, a niche, will become part of the regular qualification at some point. Make sure that this dynamic is created before we burden students with too much burden on top of the tightening up of the program they are already getting. I am not even talking about everything else we are doing, such as shortening the entire MBO training to three years and introducing the calculation test. So there are already a lot of elements that play a role in the MBO, leading to an increase. I think we should deal with this carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u39	Because of my already unstable blood pressure, my GP had advised me not to mention the calculation test today, but now it's really not to be avoided anymore. The Minister's reasoning is as follows: we should not make these choices compulsory, because there is already a calculation test. Then we come to the example of the student hairdresser. If he doesn't get a certain specialization in the hairdressing profession, she can't get to work as a hairdresser. The Minister considers this to be very serious. But if that student hairdresser doesn't pass the math test, it seems to the Minister that it is quite right that she shouldn't be able to work as a hairdresser. I find that odd. I have a question for you. Wouldn't it be an idea to make the calculation module a part of the choice? Then a student, if he expects mathematics to become part of the profession he envisages, will also really focus on that module and not every student, regardless of his future profession, will be charged with it in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u40	No, because the MBO consists of general subjects, qualification courses and electives. Many speakers have reminded us of this. We have established that arithmetic is so important for every student, for every citizen, to be able to use in general life, even if you don't need it directly for your profession, that it is desirable that we enter it. It's taken us a long time. The debate on mathematics and mathematics has been going on for years. So that is very different from this discussion about choice. I will not provoke Mr Van Meenen and no longer talk about the calculation test. Nor am I concerned with the calculation test as such. I am concerned about a careful introduction. I therefore advise against Mr Van Meenen's amendment on this point. Then there is Mrs Lucas' amendment. I would, provided that the amendment would leave a little more room for me to consider, at least two years from the moment it officially starts, in 2016, how things are going and to be able to monitor things properly, to include the provision that it should, in principle, be introduced a few years later when things are going well, so the choices in relation to the whole "Focus on Professionalism' operation. Then I'm in 2018-2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u41	It is very disappointing and surprising that the Minister does not respond to my invitation. Apparently, the Minister thinks it is better that a future hairdresser should fall on the calculation test than a specialization for, for example, a smoker, who also has nothing to do with the future profession. Anyway, I'm gonna leave that on her tab. I am also far from saying that we have agreed here that it is a good thing that all students in the MBO should have exactly the same level of education, regardless of their profession, and the same calculation test. That has been decided by a majority in this Chamber, which I certainly do not want to be counted for. I'm gonna try again anyway. These students are in vocational training. These professions are very different from each other. What this bill seeks to do is to make more specific choices. I really wonder why the Minister does not respond to my invitation to allow those students who estimate that their work will be important to them and who do not already have that profession in their training to take part in the calculation of their choice. Don't burden all students with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u42	This is going to be a repeat of the discussion we have had with each other before. I repeat that the MBO consists of three parts: general subjects, qualification courses and electives. As far as I am concerned, calculations are covered by the first and must be linked as much as possible to the practice in which they will be required to calculate. However, that does not change my view of when it might be justified to make choices part of the bag/layer scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u43	I am sorry about Mr Van Meenen's blood pressure, but I still have to talk about the calculation test. D66 proposes to offer calculation as a part of the choice for those professions for which this may be relevant. I told you that you could also provide good mathematics education for each student, where you don't make the mathematics test conditional on the diploma, unless it fits the profile part. Think, for example, of professions for which this is urgently needed, such as bookkeepers. Think also of economic training, in which mathematics is a major part and also important for any further training. For the rest of the professions, such as hairdresser or perhaps auto mechanic or a profession in media and communication, you can decide that the students do have to attend computational education, but that course is not conditional on the diploma. Because the argument that there is not enough need to be achieved for sharing choices because otherwise a lot of students might be premature is a very bizarre argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u44	This was exactly the same question Mr Van Meenen asked. So I do not hear any new questions and I note that we are starting with the choices with something new to go into in 2016, and that we have had a long-standing discussion on arithmetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u45	Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u46	Mr Van Meenen's proposal was not the same as I made in my speech. I understand that the Minister does not want to talk about it because it is a very strange, bizarre argument. But I think it would be desirable for the Minister to respond to proposals made in the Chamber, for example in order not to allow the calculation test to be conditional on the diploma, as the Minister also advocates for the choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u47	I just explained in detail that we're mathematics part of the general part, because we think it's too important in life. If you're a hairdresser, you might start your own business. Then you will have to be able to send a letter to the IRS and calculate what you will or will not get back. Or you could start your own business. Even if you want to buy a mobile phone, you need to know what's wise. Those are general skills. That is a different part of vocational training from what we are talking about here. I would like to make one more argument as to why I do not think it is wise to introduce the choices directly. That has to do with the exams. I told you, the MBO is going to have to deal with a lot of changes. This includes the reduction of training. As of 1 August 2016, MBO schools will either have to purchase their exams or validate them externally, in order to reduce the number of courses with insufficient exam quality. There, too, we find an increase in the training. I think it will already be a big job for schools to achieve this for the qualification of each training. It seems to me to be a very complicated task for schools to pass validated examinations for all electives as from the same year or a year later. We are really asking a lot of schools, and I would like the spokesmen to include that in their consideration of possible amendments. Again, in the year of the final introduction of the revised qualification structure, i.e. the academic year 2016-2017, I will monitor, for example through the director of the revisions, whether students and MBO schools have gained sufficient experience in the design and examination of the electives. On the basis of this monitoring, which will become available after the end of the academic year 2016-2017, I can make a decision on the conditionalation for the following academic year of choice for obtaining a diploma. Sorry, it doesn't add up to what I just said... On the basis of this monitoring, we could consider whether it would be desirable to include it in the bag/layer scheme. Again, I would like to see a possible introduction in the year 2018-2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u48	The Minister initially indicated that it could simply be included in the pocket/layer scheme if it were to be one year later. I'd like to think about that. But now it is going to impose additional conditions, namely that an evaluation must have been carried out first. It'll get very paroleal. I just want it to start in 2018-2019. If there are very serious objections, then we shall have the debate again, but the conditionality that the Minister now attaches to it should not be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u49	Okay, then we'll get a whole step closer. It then listens closely to how the amendment may be modified. If it were to be "in principle 2018-2019, unless..." then I can basically live with it and I would leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber, also in view of the widely heard wish. That is the Lucas amendment to item 9. The Van Meenen amendment to item No. Eight goes even further. It won't be a surprise if I betrayed that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u50	I will co-sign Mrs Lucas' amended amendment and I will withdraw my amendment to item No. 8 in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u51	The Van Meenen amendment (Doc. 8) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u52	I hope that I have also answered Mr Bishop's questions about the electives which must be adequate to examine. There too, therefore, we are starting with the whole process of examinating. That is not easy, that really requires a lot from the schools and by the way also from the SBB. I come to the questions about free space, particularly with regard to moral formation, bildung and philosophy of life. It was mainly Mr Bishop and Mr Rog who spoke about this. Why not give more freedom in the choices to for example religion, moral formation etc. Give you a place? Mr Bishop has tabled an amendment which narrows it more. Mr Rog leaves it a little broader, but both want to create more freedom for this particular formative activity. I suggest that citizenship is a mandatory part. In the context of a VAO on radicalisation, we discussed this extensively with each other. All schools must offer citizenship and career development. How they shape that, they can decide for themselves. They can therefore take into account the basis of the school and the social or philosophical aspects they wish to emphasise. In addition, all schools have the possibility to include this forming aspect throughout the programme. I can easily imagine that a reformator's school forms an education assistant or carer or accountant in a different way and puts different accents than a general MBO institution. This formative or philosophical aspect can include schools in the regular parts of the training, more explicitly in the career and citizenship component. This bill gives schools enough freedom to look up their own space. I have taken good note of the opinion of the Council of State on the policy area for MBO institutions, and I believe that, with the introduction of electives in vocational education and training, it is so large that further legislation is not necessary to allow, for example, profiling on a philosophical basis. Nor is it necessary to make a derogation from the choice-sharing obligation for, for example, the profession of religion. Then how can it work? One can record it in the regular part. For example, for the generic qualification part of career and citizenship, an institution can give more substance to the learning objective, the willingness and ability to reflect on one's own lifestyle and to take care of one's own vitality as a citizen and employee. Something like that could happen. It can also be done with professionally specific components. For example, for each profession, participants face ethical issues. An institution can express its own identity and philosophy in education. During the nursing course you can take it with you in the coloring in the area of death guidance. The school may also want to promote a philosophical basic attitude throughout the training, in which the philosophy of life functions as a source of life, learning and working. For example, the institution can colour this together with a learning company. It can give coloring to the internship assignments, to social skills and to dealing with colleagues and with disappointments. This too is an important formative aspect, which can be further developed depending on the institution and the character of the school. Then the interpretation can also be given to the method, say the how, of one's own identity, whether or not on a philosophical basis. This may include the rules of life in the school or special activities around holidays; for example, the training for sellers in December not only of Christmas events and Christmas celebrations, but also of the Christmas story and the Christmas spirit, and in the course of training in the hospitality industry, for example, work on the adjustments due to the Ramadan. It's all possible. It's all part of the freedom of education. Schools therefore have the freedom to organise the training programme themselves. This can be done with additional forming aspects as well as with extra emphasis on religious aspects, such as the trade religion. Finally, where necessary, more hours can be devoted to an additional course programme. I would like to make it very clear that legal time standards are minimum standards. Most schools provide more than minimum standards of education. We have also recently relaxed the minimum standards and said that, provided that there is a clear profile of the training, if there is consultation with teachers and if students are satisfied, the minimum standard may also be waived. Frankly, I can imagine schools with a very clear profile saying they need it. Mr Bishop quite honestly mentioned the Hoornbeeck College, a school that I also spoke to. Let that be an excellent school with a very clear profile, which might be easier than a big rocket to use the flexibility in the arrangements we have. Having said that, I am not very fond of the amendment to item No. 11 on the inclusion of the philosophical basis in the regular education programme. The same applies to the Rog amendment, although I think it is more general. My problem with the Bishop amendment is that this only makes an exception for schools on a philosophical basis. The Rog amendment broadens that. It indicates that it is desirable to depart from the mandatory elements of choice and to fill in this area as it sees fit. I would also advise against this amendment, at least as it stands. Everything I have just said in relation to religion actually applies to this. We already have a lot of opportunities to do this. Secondary education has the triple qualification assignment, qualification for the labour market, for further education and for society. On the contrary, we have found that there was too much non-committality and too much growth in choice-sharing, and that it is necessary to link them up a little more. So I think this is undesirable. As far as personality formation and bildung are concerned, I do not want bildung to become a separate compartment in a school, whatever the type of school it is, but I want bildung to be included in the whole education system. I would therefore also find it undesirable if there were a course of education, bildung or whatever in the part of the choice, and so one could easily think that it no longer needs to be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u53	When I hear the Minister's list of what is possible, I wonder why we are not simply making a choice. In that case, the schools that do need it, and which do appreciate it, can make that choice. Of course, it's not about the identity being alone in such a profession. That would be really bad. Of course it is about all kinds of notions that have to do with the identity of such a school in the curriculum. It is precisely in this context, however, that we often talk about practical translation, application. In order to be able to promote it in a balanced way, you need not only moments that focus on it, but also the continuous reflection on it. That is why I ask the Minister to take a closer look at whether this aspect can be made possible in any way as an appropriate part of the choice. We can make demands on the number of hours and content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u54	These arguments lead me to make it clearer that this reflection is a continuous reflection and that it should not be locked up somewhere in a box. It's got to run through the whole program. It's allowed to be philosophical, depending on the type of school. Indeed, the Hoornbeeck College will have a very different form than the Albeda College. Those are very different schools in a different setting. But don't let anyone think that you don't have to pay any more attention to it when you're done with one part of the choice. In my opinion, there are a lot of opportunities to do it. I find nothing wrong with a school developing an extra course for that. Then it can apply to all pupils and one can do even more about it if one so wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u55	You can't walk on one leg. I'd like to use that metaphor here. You can't just opt for application in subjects if you take your moral reflection, your ethical formation seriously. Then you also need theoretical reflection. Those are the two legs on which such a program runs. To limit it to or just one or only the other is not at issue; it is en-en. When it comes to the possibilities that schools do have, it is about an extracurricular programme, and that is a little too short for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u56	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u57	I would ask the Minister to take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u58	I sincerely do not understand why Mr Bishop makes the comparison with the metaphor that you cannot walk on one leg. The MBO makes a triple, i.e. it is general formative, qualifying and with electives. In all these parts there are possibilities to give that theoretical reflection a very recognizable place. This is perhaps better possible in one part than in another, but in the case of citizenship, for example, it is very obvious that the theoretical reflection should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u59	It is good that the Minister has once again indicated what schools can do with citizenship, education and bildung, but we are talking about the choices and the Rog amendment. I have heard the Minister say that she cannot support it in this form. What should be changed so that it can embrace this possibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u60	I can meet the Chamber if this is a broad shared wish. For the number of hours of electives my employees have to give me a hand. I think it's 900 or 960 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u61	They are being held to talk by Mr Van Meenen. Smart trick!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u62	The number of hours of electives is 900 hours or 960 hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u63	I hear it's max.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u64	A maximum of 960 hours. Because it consists of several components, for example 240 hours of the first unit can be freely spent. In any case, I would like it not only to be on a religious or philosophical basis. However, Mr Rog does not say that either. I can also imagine that the Albeda College would want to do something about human rights or live in a big city. I have just placed the Hoornbeeck College opposite Albeda College, but let me mention another example of the Frisian Gate College that can also do something philosophical, but perhaps also Frisian history and identity. I do insist that it is formal, but it can take shape in a different way. I would add that if we did this, it would entail additional administrative burdens to deal with all this. I am not very enthusiastic about it in advance, so I really want to make it depend on a broad shared wish of the Chamber whether or not I will take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u65	It's heartwarming to hear this, and that's what I mean sincerely. If the Minister leaves it to the Chamber to consider this matter, I am confident that we will have broad support for it. I'll see what I can do. However, I would like to make it clear to the Minister that it is indeed my intention that this amendment should not focus on a select number of schools and in a broader form around everything that may have to do with education and identity. I am well aware of what the Minister has said in order to get that "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u66	Perhaps it would be a good idea if, in the second term, I could return to the consequences of the administrative process and the consequences for the various levels of MBO. I would like to say to Mr Rog that the entrance and specialist training courses only have a 240-hour choice. That, too, should be weighed. Entrance training often concerns a vulnerable group of pupils. I wonder whether it would be desirable for their choice to be completed in this way. Perhaps it is very important for this group to follow a part of the choice that offers more perspective on the integration with the labour market, or rather. the flow to mbo-2 level. Let me make it clear that I would find it really undesirable for that group to introduce the choice in the way that Mr Rog proposes. I'm getting to my last block. This concerns a number of questions which all relate to practice. On parts I've already brought some of that. I'm just trying to get through it real quick. Mrs Lucas talked about accreditations. On the one hand, this legislative proposal aims to create flexibility and, on the other hand, to guarantee and increase the quality of education. This means an approach combining regional initiative and national security. It is precisely in order to ensure quality and avoid excessive growth that national scrutiny is necessary. Through the Review Chamber, SBB arranged for the review to be carried out by regional accreditation committees. We're gonna follow it well. The Chamber has just received a letter on accreditation in higher education, where we do the same, because we also want to combat bureaucracy there. I think Mr Rog has already mentioned this. It may be interesting to follow this closely, to see what lessons we can draw from it and whether there is, in the long term, a reason for the two systems to grow closer to each other. I can't comment on that right now, but I'm sure I'm gonna follow it. The Chamber will receive the letter before the summer following the Lucas/Jadnansing motion on proposals on the flexibilisation of vocational education. Mrs Lucas and Mr Beertema had a question about ensuring regional disparities. Are they taken sufficiently seriously? Yes, because when submitting and linking a part of the choice, the proposal is supported by education and the regional business, unless an individual student has a good proposal for it. The parties must therefore agree in principle with it. This also gives good coordination with the regional business community. By the way, I can see that things are going well. I myself am very enthusiastic about the Regional Investment Fund MBO, where many applications from schools, municipalities and provinces come in. The fund tries to align it with the regional business community. The Review Chamber therefore also looks at the involvement of regional business. Mrs Siderius also asked if the factor of time is facilitated. The introduction of choices has no impact on the size of the national benefit a school receives, which remains the same. Schools are supported in the preparation of the new training courses, based on revised qualifications and electives. We'll take a test run first. As of August, MBO schools will be able to put the revised qualification files into use and the new files will be required by August. Mr Van Meenen asked about the link with Life Long Learning. That was a good question and I am glad that it has been asked, because that gives me the opportunity to confirm once again how important Life Long Learning is and how well the introduction of choices can be. I mentioned that earlier in the letter on Lifelong Learning. The fact that choices are part of the revised qualification structure means that they make an important contribution to ensuring the civil impact. On the contrary, I can well imagine that, on the basis of their individual needs, adults should also select a part of their choice and thus receive a targeted and effective contribution to their professional development. Think, for example, of the case where someone wants to take a specialization in technology or take a German or Spanish option in order to better align his or her diploma with the rapidly changing labour market. So I expect that choices will give an important boost to the Life Long Learning Agenda. Ms Jadnanansing and Mrs Siderius asked about the involvement of central and decentralised student councils. That involvement is important. Both the student council and the works council can be involved by the board in an offer of choice. The Board shall allow the student council to discuss general matters of the institution at least twice a year, including possibly also the choices. In this case, as is the case with the provision of vocational training, the Participants' Council can discuss the offer of choice. The student council also has an right of initiative. Apart from that, the representatives of the student councils will be able to attend a work session in September through JOB, in which they will be informed in detail by the management of the revision of the qualification structure. Mrs Jadnansing also asked about the study career guidance for electives. It is very important, because schools have to take students and think together about what could be a good part for them. In the information transfer and support of the implementation, the student's choice guidance is also explicitly taken into account. Direct stakeholders from the schools are already working together with the management organisation on the development of casusism around the subject of business management. In this process, the choice process is an important part. This casuism leads to interesting insights that we want to share again. They can be found on the website reviewmbo.nl. Two-day work sessions are held, as I said, even after the summer, in which students are also involved. The website of the SBB also contains a lot of information about this. Of course, there is a lot of consultation with the JOB about this to make it clear which part of the choice fits in with the training. What else do you want? Do you want to specialize in the labour market? Do you want to go to high school? What do you need? In short, a school has a responsibility to make all that clear. Mrs. Jadnansing asked: what if someone started a part of the choice, but if it's not for him, should they continue to muddle to the end? I'd rather not, because it would be a shame if a student found out shortly after the start that an option isn't for him or her. That is why I call on students to think carefully about the choices they want to follow. I call on the institutions to think carefully about the choices they offer and to inform students well in the context of career guidance. If a student comes to the conclusion after the start that he has chosen wrongly, he must find a solution with the school. In one case, it is more likely to follow a different choice than in the other. That really calls for customization. Mrs Jadnansing asked about the broadness of the offer of training. Does this mean that most institutions will choose to only meet the minimum requirement of choice? No. Vocational training will soon be based not only on qualifications but also on choice. The national budget can and should be used for this purpose. It is not linked one-on-one to the elective obligation, nor to the legal time of education. I have already said this: we have a minimum. Choices therefore have no influence on the State contribution to be received. I would, however, like to make the point that I have just said in the context of placing the choices in the bag/layer scheme that we must be careful not to allow schools to choose the safe, risk-free path. Mrs Jadnansing also asked how to ensure that young people remain motivated to bring a part of their choice to a successful conclusion. That is actually a repetition: this can be done by ensuring that it is all well organised. This can be done by ensuring that the choice is well prepared, that it counts and that it is involved in career guidance. This can be done by ensuring that there must be an examination result for one or more electives in order to obtain the diploma. Even if that doesn't count in the pocket/layer scheme, it's on your diploma. I therefore assume that students will be motivated to choose something, which has added value to their further career, whether it is a further education career or a career towards the labour market. All this will stimulate students sufficiently. Mrs Siderius has asked me if teachers can make it all strong. The workload in hours does not change as a result of the review. It is precisely the fact that the content of the dossiers has been known since the summer, combined with the possibility of participating in the voluntary year, that, in my opinion, institutions give the opportunity to prepare their teachers properly. We are thus also creating flexibility in education, which must be taken care of by the current teachers. It is precisely in this way that there should also be contributions from teachers from industry. The letter of amendment can, for good reasons, be a bit more intense, because teachers have to take part in thinking about students' preferences. The faster the application of the bag/layer scheme will take place, the more burdens this will entail for teachers as well. Mr Rog asked how to track other parts registered at a higher level. A part of the choice obtained by a student is mentioned on the diploma. If a student cannot obtain a diploma, but has obtained parts of qualifications or electives to which a certificate is attached, he can obtain a certificate. I have here the amendment to item No. 12 by Mr Bishop, which states that there is no need to ask for accountability in the annual report in respect of the choices that are not linked. Unfortunately, I have to say that I do not recommend this amendment. I do not want institutions to deviate too lightly. I also want to prevent strategic behavior from being shown. There will be more freedom, but there will also be transparency. This is part of the annual report. I haven't had any complaints from schools that this accountability would be too much to ask. I think I still have a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u67	Can we first listen to Mr Bishop's short and pointy interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u68	Sure. That will make my second term even shorter and even more pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u69	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u70	I'd like to point out a quote. "The competent authority shall account in the annual report for the use of the power to derogate, at the request of the participant, from the linking of choice to qualifications." It then lists what they have to justify: "the method of providing information to participants, how many requests have been allocated and to which choices they relate, how many applications have been rejected, what choices have been made regarding this and what was the reason for the rejection'. Six themes per request, as it were, have to be justified. Surely it cannot be true that this is a question of accountability? This is such a constipated distrust. I can still imagine that the figures in general terms, the percentages are required. But a school has to account for a deviation in six parts. I don't think this is supposed to be a slip of the pen. I'd like to confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u71	It's kind of the question how extensive you do that. Those points should be mentioned in the annual report, but they do not have to be pages. I think that is important at the outset in order to achieve transparency. Freedom also includes accountability and transparency. If we have strengthened learning capacity here, there is always talk about whether it can be reduced. I would like to say here that this is part of the history of law, and that this is not an extensive responsibility and that this can be done very briefly. But we can learn from this, including in monitoring and evaluation. Perhaps the same will apply to this and, if we have learned from those first steps, it may be possible to do so. Maybe even more concise. But I do want to know how often that happens and what the reason is. If schools reject a student, we also want them to explain that, that's transparent. You may also deviate from the minimum hours standard, albeit reasoned. I do not see why we should not do that in the case of the derogation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u72	Maybe because this is about one subject and not about an entire student, but I listen to the minister very carefully. In the first instance, a number of key figures should be included in the annual report. On this basis, the inspection or any other body can follow how it is done. If necessary, this could lead to a follow-up step. Is that a good interpretation? So it's not at detail level, it's at character numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u73	Yes, as far as I'm concerned, that's a good interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u74	Okay, clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u75	Mr Bishop asked: is the requirement of business involvement in choice not being applied too rigidly? In my view, there is no rigid application of the involvement of business, because this involvement is a pre-requisite. This is particularly true of regional businesses. We have talked about philosophy. I hope that I have not only had all the questions but also all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u76	The latter is certainly the case. You've judged them all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u77	As far as I know, I've had everything. Then I'm at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u78	Very good. Then I'm gonna go see if there's any interest in a second term. In view of the fact that Mrs Siderius is coming forward, that is the case. Or are you going to say something in the interrupting microphone, Mrs Siderius?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u79	I have another question about the red tape. The Minister has announced that he is going to make significant cuts in higher education. There is also a call from the MBO to do it there. Is the Minister going to comply with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u80	That's what we're doing with this bill. There will be 25% fewer qualifications and a much more flexible structure to guarantee and increase the speed of all qualifications. That is what we are doing with the changes at the centres of knowledge. They are now all housed in the SBB and are going to work as one organisation. I just happened to be visiting there yesterday. Where a learning firm like a large hospital now receives eight centres of knowledge, it will only get one more. That is a huge reduction in bureaucracy and administrative burdens. We are therefore working with great speed. As regards accreditation, I have already told Mrs Lucas that we are also going to learn from the regional accreditation structures in MBO and in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u81	The first speaker in second term is Mrs Siderius of the SP. Everyone has a third of the speaking time actually used.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u82	Mr. Chairman. Well, I guess I'll get started. It is, of course, a little faint that the Minister says that this bill will deal with the administrative burden. The fine words she spoke about reducing the administrative burden in higher education and the press release on increased confidence and less accountability are, among other things, about teachers. Now the Minister arrives with a story about the SBB. That is a pity, and that is why I am tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the regulatory and accountability burden and hence the administrative burden of teachers in secondary vocational education are considered to be very heavy;]] [[Whereas the Minister intends to address the administrative burden in higher vocational education;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to reduce significantly the administrative burden in secondary vocational education;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34160-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u83	That administrative burden tends to put a lot of pressure on teachers in the MBO. The absenteeism has risen again over the past year. I mentioned that in my speech. Less than half of the teachers have zero absenteeism. That's kind of worrying. This high workload, due to the increasingly heavy work in schools, means that teachers are falling out, and therefore more and more people need to be replaced. This in turn has an impact on the quality of education. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that absenteeism among teachers at MBO increased again in 2014, that the absence of zero has now fallen to less than half of teachers and that EUR 126 million is spent on absenteeism;]] [[Whereas the high workload of teachers in the MBO and the gravity of the problems of pupils in particular in Levels 1 and 2 are part of the high absenteeism;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to reduce the high absenteeism among teachers in MBO and thus to free up money for more teachers in secondary vocational education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34160-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u84	As far as I am concerned, the calculus disaster cannot be mentioned enough. I know that Mr Van Meenen thinks otherwise for other reasons. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the calculation test is likely to become a calculus disaster;]] [[Considers that the calculation test is too heavy in the certification of MBO students, while the focus should be on professionally oriented subjects;]] [[calls on the Government to take the calculation test from the compulsory curriculum of secondary vocational education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Siderius. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34160-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u85	The Minister called for more flexibility in the qualification files, but this evening she herself was very inflexible. There are few possibilities to separate the choices from the qualification files. Another very bureaucratic circus is being rigged to have students submit a request that needs to be assessed. In my opinion, we should give the professionals the confidence and give teachers an important advisory role, so that mentors can discuss this with students and all that shoving paper back and forth becomes unnecessary. We regret that this kind of argument has not been addressed and that it is being said that it will lead to more premature outbursts and a proliferation of choices. I don't think that's what we're proposing. We shall co-sign Mrs Lucas's and Mr Van Meenen's amendments. We await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u86	Mr. Chairman. We started out very united. Mrs Siderius and I agreed on a lot of points. That's a unique thing. I'd like to have that named tonight, too. On the last point, however, I do not agree with her. I believe that the Minister has shown flexibility. I also really think that with this bill and the choices we are taking a step forward towards a more responsive MBO. I am sometimes critical of the organized polder, but I agree with the Minister that they will have to make a good deal of effort here and do it properly. I wish her every success in implementing all of this, so that they can react quickly to that changing labour market. We will follow that closely. Right now, we have no further motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u87	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister. I agree with Mrs Lucas that her contribution and her response to a number of amendments make things even better than he already is. In any case, my group will support the amendments tabled by Mrs Lucas and Mr Rog and Mr Bishop's amendment on accountability. I also welcome what Mrs Lucas said about lifelong learning. I have another question about this, namely whether this will also lead to certification. The amendment in part No. I've already moved in eight. I shall conclude with a motion on the calculation test, following the small debate we have had on this subject this evening. The title of the motion is: the calculation key as an elective part. The Minister may consider that as a concession. We meet halfway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas vocational education and training is primarily concerned with the learning of a profession;]] [[Whereas calculation is not relevant for all professions;]] [[calls on the Government to take the central examination calculation out of the basic part of the qualification files for professions for which calculation is not relevant, and instead to provide calculation for those qualification files as a part of the choice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34160-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u88	Mr Beertema of the Freedom Party waived his speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u89	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. As far as my amendment on the philosophical aspect in the context of the choices is concerned, I will be able to understand with Mr Rog whether we can come up with a joint amendment so that at least there is clear room for it. Perhaps, however, we will do so in a slightly different way from what was originally proposed by us. It would then be fantastic if the Minister were to draw up a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u90	Mr. Chairman. It was a sensible debate on a technical subject, in which the Minister at least showed himself to be responsive. I thank her for that. I am glad that we have had this debate. It is a good thing that Mrs Lucas' amendment, with an adjustment, can have a positive opinion. The CDA will wholeheartedly support that. I understand, on the one hand, with Mr Bishop and, on the other hand, with colleagues who have expressed a positive opinion on the Rog amendment to point No. 13. I will continue to discuss this in order to see to what extent we can adapt it in such a way that we can make the choices a little more free, and we can also set up the possibility of a reasoned derogation in a way that can also be endorsed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u91	Mrs Jadnansing of the PvdA Group has waived her speaking time. The Minister will answer immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u92	Mr. Chairman. I'll pass the motions filed. I shall begin with Mrs Siderius' motion to reduce the administrative burden, the motion in part No. 14. I advise against this motion. I have just mentioned a few things that we are already doing. I am truly convinced that this bill contributes greatly to the reduction of administrative burdens. We have agreed on this in the MBO administrative agreement, so we are already working on it. I shall return to that in the letter on the Lucas/Jadnansing motion, which will be sent to the Chamber before the summer recess. Mrs Siderius' motion for a resolution 15, on the issue of absenteeism, I also advise against, even if it was only because I do not think it is appropriate to ride this issue on the sidelines in a legislative proposal, where it has not been discussed at all. Apart from that, I also disagree with the substance of the motion. Sick absence is primarily the responsibility of employers and employees, i.e. schools and teachers. In addition, 56 million has been earmarked for professionalisation under the quality agreements. This can, of course, be used to reduce absenteeism, reduce working pressure and so on. Good job prospects will certainly help to reduce absenteeism. The motion by Mrs Siderius on the calculation test, the motion in part No. 16, I advise. I do not think I need to say much more about this after everything I have said about it before. Mr Van Meenen has asked whether Lifelong Learning in MBO leads to certification. The answer to that is yes. I have already written about this in my letter on Lifelong Learning. I will return to that in the letter on the Lucas/Jadnansing motion and the flexibilisation of the MBO. Also on the motion on item No. 17, on the qualification files and the calculation test, we have exchanged enough. I fear that Mr Van Meenen and I will not get any closer this evening on this section. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 17. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the amendment to item No. 13 by Mr Rog. He said he would consult with Mr Bishop, who has tabled a further amendment. I would like to look forward to a new amendment. However, I would like to point out that I would find it undesirable to use the room for more philosophical, Bildung-like elements for admission training. I do not think this is desirable for this group of students. Something similar applies to specialist training. I believe that the amendment can be adjusted in such a way that it is technically acceptable. In doing so, I leave the final choice with the Chamber. After all, this is a choice of substance, which must be made by the Chamber. If there is broad agreement in the Chamber on the desirability of the amendment, I have no objection to it, in that it is in any case technically feasible. All I have to do is thank the Chamber for the pleasant debate. I thank the Chamber for the compliment that I am responsive. The room is, too. Let us hope that all the schools that have to work with the choices will be and that they will make real use of this in order to give the MBO the quality that is needed for the future dynamic labour market. I hope, along with all the changes in the MBO, it will position the craftsmanship well in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-10-tweedekamer-14.u93	The minister ended with a formal closure, a beautiful day's closure. I thank the Minister for her contribution to this debate. We shall be voting on the amendments and motions tabled on Tuesday.
