ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. In the first term of the Chamber, each spokesperson shall have four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'm replacing Mrs. Yücel today. Unfortunately, she cannot be here. In the Netherlands, a lot of talent remains unused. Women are now highly educated, even more often than men, but they still do not reach the top. Less than 15% of the top positions in business are held by women. Those numbers aren't like this anymore. The PvdA does not accept that the standard boardroom is occupied by men only. With the Kalma motion we aim for 30% women in top positions in 2016. Right now, we're way too far away from that. In the AO Emancipation my colleague, Mr Yücel, has called for action so that the 30% would finally come into sight. She asked the Minister to take action on the following points: firstly, a balanced composition of selection committees, secondly, lists of candidates with 50% men and 50% women, thirdly, a target for the semi-public sector and fourthly, approval of annual reports only if the "application or explanation" principle is included with an effort obligation. How did the Minister address these issues and bring them to the attention of the House? The Labour Party stands for more women at the top. This is not only good for women's opportunities, but also good for business performance. It has not only a social side, but certainly an economic side. With the top women register, companies themselves want to deal with the myth that there would not be enough top women. Of course they're here. This is already demonstrated by the initiative. Almost 700 talented women have come into the picture. The register shall serve as a temporary instrument. It is not an end in itself, but a means that must certainly be used. A "new girls network" as a crowbar for the old boys network. This program must be given room to prove its usefulness. Clearly more needs to be done to ensure that women can reach the summit. That is why we need to look for new initiatives, initiatives that are quick and more effective. In the countries around us, we are also aiming for more women at the top. The Minister also writes in her letter that the Netherlands is being caught up in Europe on the left and right. That is why I ask the Minister if she can have a competition. This should reflect different policies of different European countries in the field of women's participation in the summit of public and non-public organisations. My group also asks the government to assess whether these policies are applicable in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u3	We can take the poison that the target of at least 30% women on the boards of directors and on the supervisory boards of large companies will not be met by the end of this year. Then the Kalma amendment will also lapse. What does the PvdA's group suggest to the Secretary of State do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u4	We are talking today about the register.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u5	We are talking to the Minister, Mrs Karabulut, not to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u6	Yes, excuse me, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u7	We are talking today about the register. The Kalma Act should only be evaluated by the end of this year. We can then have a discussion on this. At the moment, however, every effort must be made to achieve the target.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u8	Only 5% of the companies covered by that law are now achieving that target. With a little realistic assessment and a simple look at it, Mrs Cegerek comes to the conclusion that we are not going to make it by the end of this year. Her group colleague Marit Maij and also MEP Jongerius advocate quotas. Does Mrs Cegerek also argue for this, or does she say: no, because the VVD does not want it either?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u9	This is a perspective for the future. At the moment, we must first evaluate the Kalma Act and, of course, also strive for as many effective means as possible that we can use. I regret that, unfortunately, the SP is being held back by looking more at the market, leaving everything to the market and not participating at the level of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u10	I hear the spokesman for the Labour Party say that a women's quota is also good for business itself, but what does it base it on? The studies I have read, for example from Norway, show that this is not the case at all, quite the contrary. So what studies does it base itself on and on which aspects has business improved so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u11	At the moment it is true that 500... in the top 500 of... in the 500 of the companies, I'm sorry, I'm not coming out of my words... that 11% doesn't yet fit. That's far too little. In the top 5,000, that's only a percentage of 15%. Those are very low numbers. To achieve that 30%, we have much more to do. So efforts are definitely needed. I have seen in the Minister's letter that only 5% is being achieved at the moment. That's very little. We ask for additional research to gain more knowledge of other countries and to be able to apply what is effective in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u12	Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u13	Well "finally," I asked a question, but I don't have any beginnings of an answer. My question was: on what aspects has this business, for example in Norway, improved? I read that, for example, the stock market value of these companies has certainly not improved. So what does Mrs Cegerek base that claim on? She claims that I am okay with this, but can she support it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u14	The Minister's letter shows that countries in Europe are doing better. I want to learn from that. That's why I'm making a proposal to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u15	No, it's about business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr Beertema, Mrs Cegerek had the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u17	I think I made myself clear, but you don't want to understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u18	I understand that Mrs Cegerek is in favour of greater balance and diversity in business and also at the summit of business. At the same time, it calls for an international comparison and more research before introducing quotas. How many more investigations does Mrs Cegerek need to take action in the end? The investigations that have been carried out in the past will enable us to fill this Chamber. So how many more tests does she need?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u19	It is a pity that Mr Kuzu draws what I say in a different context. We want research to look at what other Member States are doing within the European Union and what instruments they are using that are effective, so that we can help more women to the top. Studies from other Member States can help us to see what we can do in the Netherlands and what measures are effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u20	First of all, I think it is nice that we are having a debate here on this important subject with a lot of women and Mr Beertema and I.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u21	You're outnumbered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u22	We're outnumbered. That is of course good, but I am also very sorry that I have to hear this reply from the Labour Party. He should strive for emancipation and so on. At the same time, Mrs Cegerek just stated in her speech that the Netherlands is doing worse compared to other European countries. So these international investigations are already there! What else would government party PvdA want to do other than what is already happening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u23	I'm not suggesting there are no tests. There are certainly studies, but there are also good practice experiences from other Member States. I am in favour of looking from the Netherlands at what other Member States do well within the European Union and what resources we can use. That's all I care about. I am not interested in doing any more research, but in learning from other Member States and in using good measures here to promote emancipation. Yeah, you're smiling like that. I think it's a little unmanageable and indecent to react like that, but it's exactly as I say it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u24	Now Mr Kuzu feels addressed. I'm gonna let him respond briefly. He can handle that, can't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u25	Yeah, I can handle that. But of course, this is bullshit. I stand here for emancipation and for more women in top positions. Mrs Cegerek will hear that in my contribution. That she tries to frame it this way, I leave it entirely to her, but this does not contribute to emancipation. Because the women's emancipation movement, Mrs Cegerek, should know very well when men began to wear her.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u26	I do not need a lesson from Mr Kuzu on this subject. All hands on deck to bring more women to the top. That was the essence of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. I would appreciate it if we could allow this emancipation debate to be a positive one. On television, I often notice that debates on emancipation are sometimes a little sour. We have discussed a wonderful subject here so far with all the dignity. I will try to do the same in my contribution. The fact that the government considers economical driving to be important does not mean that the government has to start producing economical cars itself. That makes sense. The fact that the government rightly considers a good reflection of men and women in top positions in the labour market, in companies and organisations to be important does not mean that the government itself should engage in activities in the field of recruitment and selection. The ruling of the House of Representatives in the motion I tabled is clear on that. But I did see some light in the Minister's letter between the answers she gave and the contents of the motion. I therefore welcome this debate, because it gives me the opportunity to ask the Minister again if she is prepared to end her intervention from OCW with the database. The letter states that there are a number of contractual obligations. I get that. I have experience that, for example, if you cancel your mobile phone subscription, that might take a while. But that doesn't mean that I'm obliged to call afterwards; I can stop now. Would the Minister like to look into that? The reason I'm asking is that there are many companies in the market that are recruiting and selecting and have invested a lot of time in people, capital and time to set up a network and get vacancies. I think it is unjust and inappropriate that the government should withdraw part of these activities from the market and take them into its own hands. What also struck me in the Minister's letter is that she establishes a link between the database and the women's quota. The Minister says that if she cannot continue with this database, she may soon be forced to introduce a female quota. As far as the VVD is concerned, that connection is illogical. It is good to repeat that we believe that quotas are there for fish and not for women. I want to know that I got hired somewhere because I'm the best and not because there's a check mark behind the box "wife." There are a lot of studies that show that companies that have a good diversity policy are performing better. That should be the trigger for companies to do this. As far as I am concerned, we benefit from the discussion on the underlying situation, namely that 75% of women working part-time work in the Netherlands. I think freedom of choice is a very good thing that I don't want to take away anyone, but I also think it's important for people to discuss the consequences of choices. That is a discussion which, as far as I am concerned, should take place when it comes to recruitment and selection of people at the board table, and when it comes to choice and consequences at the dining table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u28	Does Mrs Van Ark believe that the target of 30% is feasible? Does she believe that there is indeed sufficient talent and potential, including among the female species, to perform those top functions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u29	I believe that there are a lot of women suitable for top positions, as well as many men suitable for top positions. I just think we shouldn't stare at a percentage. If 25% of women work full-time, it is difficult to assume that 30% of the top positions are filled by women. I do not have a normative judgment on this, but we should not run away from the fact that choices also have consequences. As far as I am concerned, this is part of the debate we are having later this year on targets. Of course, we're not gonna make it, given the current figures. We should not stare blindly at setting a quota. Then the world doesn't suddenly look different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u30	I agree. We certainly should not stare at that, but we should not look away from an existing problem. Other aspects and other issues also play a role, such as leave arrangements, childcare and the possibility for women working part-time to work more. In health care, for example, there are a lot of women who want to work more, but do not get that chance. But I'm trying, apart from that, to get a little sharp. If Mrs Van Ark thinks this is important and finds that it is not self-evident, does she consider it desirable to take an intermediate step? Should we not start by saying: okay companies, there is a legal target; can you explain in your annual reports what you are doing to achieve that diversity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u31	There are studies that show that companies with a good diversity policy perform better. This development is slow. Slower than I might want. But we come from a time when the mother of most people here in the Chamber had to stop working when she married or had a child. So some developments are slow. I would like to speed them up, but I do not believe that a government with a magic wand or by decree can create a desirable situation. This is a development that must be carried out intrinsically. It may slow down, but it will be better secured and that is better for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u32	I heard Mrs Van Ark say that 75% of women work full-time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u33	Part-time, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u34	This had to be corrected, otherwise we will get a very rosy picture of the employment rate of women in the Netherlands. They are often even small part-time jobs. What I actually responded to was Mrs Van Ark's favourite remark: quotas are for fish and not for women. Now the case is that we here in the Chamber regularly want to talk about labour quotas for people with disabilities. I wonder why Mrs Van Ark attaches such great importance to this comparison. When we talk about quotas, you can talk about all kinds of quantities. It's just a word. What does she mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u35	I am referring to the fact that companies are obliged to employ a percentage of women and that this is based on the assumption that this situation will also be realised. I'm acting against that. I am glad, by the way, that Mrs Dijkstra corrected me on the point of 75%. My underlying theme is precisely that we need to have a broader debate on emancipation, reflecting freedom of choice and consequences for the labour market situation. We do indeed have other discussions in this Chamber, sometimes on subjects that we as a VVD are different in, but on which we have agreed. We are always good for our deal, but there is also a difference with people who, for example, have a distance from the labour market. I would not like to say that top women have a distance from the labour market. I think this is a fundamentally different situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u36	I am concerned that we are getting clear about what we are talking about and I do not think it is necessary to compare fish and women every time. I do wonder whether Mrs Van Ark is exaggerating a little bit there I am asking her to respond to what she says when she says: quotas do not solve everything. I am not in favour of quotas either, but I am in favour of targets and of what Mrs Karabulut just mentioned, namely a good annual report explaining what a company does about diversity. Mrs Van Ark says that this is not a miracle cure, but there is no one at all who assumes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u37	I often see that discussions on matters that are desirable turn into measures that ultimately lead to more administrative burdens for companies, however you turn them or turn them around. On the other hand, when you see the operation of a good diversity policy, you can expect and see that it is moving in the right direction, even if it is slower than I would like. I'll draw a parallel to clarify it. We had the same discussion about pay differences. There are all kinds of figures about that too, if there were a very big difference. But if you're going to correct that for the years that someone is working, the level of education and the experience, then a lot is missing. In the younger generations, women often earn more than men. So there are a lot of facts and fables. The minister calls it a horse medal; a comparison that always makes my eyebrows go up, but I get it. I would, however, like to prevent us from going ahead with the discussion on this subject, which we should be carrying out on the basis of facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u38	I agree with the VVD in everything, but it is surprising that this minister does not really do much other than pursue policies based on the Kalma amendment, which was also tabled by your French Weekers. What changed in the meantime? You could have thought at that time that a target that is not being met was already clearly called for further policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u39	That could be an outcome which, as far as we are concerned, is undesirable. My explanation of the failure to meet the targets is that this requires a closer look at the specific situation of the Netherlands, with the employment position of men and women and the regulations that the Netherlands has. They need to be related not only to the participation of women in the labour market, but also to that of men. It is therefore a possible outcome of the debate, of which it will not be strange that the VVD is not in favour. But failing to achieve targets can also lead to a deepening of the discussion, so that we can move from symptoms to actual building blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u40	But you also have a very long experience in parliamentary cooperation with the PvdA. That is not a party to setting a target and then, if it is not achieved, to sit down and discuss it again. Then, of course, there's just a quota. And that is probably linked, as in Norway, to the brutal liquidation of companies that are not doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u41	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u42	My question is: did you not realize that then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u43	I am standing here with a very clear, ready-to-use VVD story, which perhaps not everyone agrees with. I know that our coalition partner is different, but it is also an issue on which we have had a very constructive discussion in the Chamber a number of times. My plea, also to the Minister, is that the discussion on the targets we are going to have, which will be a discussion on the non-achievement of these targets, should become a discussion on the basis of the real facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u44	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u45	I advocated a social debate. This is therefore a discussion at the board table on the usefulness of diversity policy, and a discussion at the dining table on the choices made in a family. However, I do not mean by a social debate the commercials we have seen lately. I'm referring to the campaign around May 1st, I'm not here right now. It makes it clear what goes wrong if you don't take care of a day as a woman. I also mention the most recent campaign, a real man stands his wife, in which men get the tip to put a dishwasher in a drill, which might make it fun to wash dishes. That's not the type of social discussion I'm talking about. I find that kind of campaigns demeaning, both for men and women. As if there were still women's jobs in 2015. However much the Minister and the VVD pursue the same goal, I think it is now time for facts and realism rather than inappropriate measures. There is no intervention of OCW in the database.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin this debate with a compliment to the Minister, because here is a minister with a great commitment to the issue of emancipation and to equal participation of women in our society. On the other hand, she is also a minister who, as far as the CDA is concerned, occasionally flies out. Not so long ago, she spoke out about women who do not go full-time after higher education. There have even been words such as: women should actually feel guilty about that. The CDA said at that time: that is really not the way we look at highly educated women. Highly educated women are allowed to make their own choices. It is exactly as has been said here earlier today. Those are choices people make together when they're talking about how they're going to combine work and care. On the subject we are discussing today, too, the Minister has gone a little too far. It has become involved in tasks that the market is really capable of. However, it is clear that there is a problem. At present, about 10% of board members and supervisory boards are women. Of course, we are not achieving the target of 30% women in 2016. In more than three quarters of the Dutch boards of directors and in almost two thirds of the Dutch supervisory boards there is no woman at all. In our view, these are very negative figures. Once again, it is good that the Minister pays attention to this and takes action on it. Promoting the number of women in top positions is primarily not for the minister but for society, especially for business. Therefore, I cannot say enough how fantastic I am that VNO-NCW has started this list. It's really great. In my entire working life, I have heard men in selection committees say very often: we have looked, but we have not found them. Well, after this list, that can't happen again, because we're pushing the top women's list right under their noses. So that's very good. However, the Minister is now presenting himself as a headhunter and thereby distorting the market for existing recruitment agencies. She's taking on market responsibilities. As far as we are concerned, the Minister has not been able to make sufficiently clear why her involvement in this initiative is important in this way. Is she really convinced that this initiative would not have come off the ground in this way without its interference? Is she really afraid that if she withdraws, the initiative will stop? If that's true, what does that say about the involvement of VNO-NCW? And what does that say about the top women's list? As I said, there can no longer be anyone on a selection committee who says: we looked, but they weren't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. More than three quarters of the large companies in the Netherlands have no women on the board of directors. The latest corporate monitor for 2013 doesn't lie about it. The target of at least 30% women on the board of directors or the supervisory board is far from being met. Internationally, we score low on this. The countries around us have long overtaken us. Companies give the reason that since the legal setting of the target two years ago there have not been any new appointments, so there was no opportunity to adjust the ratio. Sometimes it is also given as a reason that it has not succeeded in finding a good female candidate. Mrs Keijzer has already mentioned it. The first reason is a matter of time; that resolves itself. The second reason calls for attention, because I too do not believe that the appropriate women are there. Part of the solution is therefore in the visibility. It is precisely this visibility that is supported by the initiative for a national database for top women. It is urgently needed, because if we continue at the current pace, it will take at least ten years for the targets to be met, and that is in nobody's interest. Diversity at the top enriches the governance of companies. My group therefore has no problem with the initiative of the Minister and VNO-NCW. Moreover, it is confirmed by the positive responses from the business community and the great response of top women themselves. It is of course important that the database on topvrouwen.nl does not lead to market disruption, something that some colleagues are afraid of. Recruiting and selection agencies which have been working for some time to mediate women towards top positions should not be put behind the national register that manages this database. The Minister states that she is paying close attention to this and that she will monitor whether there is indeed no market distortion. It's not quite clear to me exactly how she does that. So I would like to get an explanation from the Minister. In addition to the top women database, it is necessary to deliberately allow companies to reflect on the choice of a balanced distribution in the appointment of directors and Commissioners. By getting companies to report on this in the annual report, the so-called "pass or explain" principle........................................................................................................................................................... Companies that fail to meet the target of at least 30% must explain in the annual report why this has not been achieved, what effort has been made and what they are going to do to achieve this in the future. Only one in ten companies fulfilled this reporting obligation in 2013. So that's gonna be a dead letter. How's the Minister looking at this? What will it do to actually enforce the 'pass or explain' principle? The Monitoring Committee talent to the top led by Gerdi Verbeet, who reviews the follow-up of the Governance and Supervision Act, has proposed to strengthen the auditor's role. This can be done by including the statutory reporting obligation in the audit protocol of auditors. How does the Minister view this possibility? I'd like to get a response from her on this point. Over 700 women have been registered with the database in recent months. These are women who should not be missed in the recruitment and selection processes. There is a lot of female talent in the Netherlands and this benefits from increased visibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr. Chairman. Women at the base and the top still have an unequal position. Despite the legal target of 30% women on the boards of directors and supervisory boards of large companies, 95% of companies have not yet achieved this. While even Russia and Eastern European countries have a virtually equal distribution between men and women in top positions, the Netherlands is dangling at the bottom at European level. I congratulate the Minister of Emancipation for her drive and her struggle for more women in important positions in large companies. However, my group doubts whether it is using the right instruments for this, the register we are talking about today among other things. Constantly that the old boys network is still not aware of the talents of other people than white, white and 60-plus, she asks precisely these men, names of women who are board-ready, board-ready or who, according to the gentlemen, are unfit for that. Who decides again who will or will not be on the list? The old boys! Who checks who's on the list? The old boys! Who selects who's on the list? The old boys! My group does not see how this can contribute to a real change from the bottom up and to the legal pursuit of more women in all kinds of jobs. It sounds to me more like a desperate attempt and as a way to reassure the coalition partner VVD not to have to come up with legal instruments. The Minister writes that she is unable to produce results now, but she raises practical objections not to stop the register. If the Minister believes this is gonna work, I want to at least see targets. How many extra top women in important positions will this produce and what can we pay the Minister for in October? What will the Minister do if this does not work and the targets are not met? Does she actually come up with that quota? I'd like to present the Minister with an alternative plan. We create openness and transparency and encourage companies to work on diversity in the broad sense. Is the Minister prepared to oblige companies to justify in an annual report how they work on diversity and what is the distribution of administrative positions between men and women? 62% just doesn't do this! If you're not thinking about it and not thinking about it, you can't change it. Women at the top can also be reached by piercing the concrete floor. That's a problem, too. I congratulated the Minister at the beginning of my speech on her drive towards the position of top women, but I regret to say that she is abandoning a very large group of women at the base. These are the Dutch women whose childcare is getting worse, the Dutch women whose jobs are being cut, the Dutch women who have to accept less wages and a less position in care, the Dutch women who want more work, but less are being offered. The Dutch Women's Council was already the alarm clock on this issue. Women also need to be more concerned, caregivers. It's like the minister says, "You have to fly, but I'm taking your wings." What does the Minister of Empowerment actually do for all those single top women who work hard but still do not get out of poverty and assistance, for whom working is not rewarding? These women, as figures show, are becoming increasingly poor. The emancipation is running backwards. Does this minister have a heart for these women, too, or does she leave them in the lurch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u49	I now give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Beertema of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr. Chairman. Today we are again talking about women in top positions. The last time was two months ago during a general consultation. Let there be no misunderstanding: the PVV Group believes that ideally the right person should be assigned to the right function, regardless of gender, age or origin, but we are totally opposed to any form of positive discrimination, quotas and creatability. The composition of the top companies is something that the market itself must determine. In addition, in 2015, this cabinet deals with the classification and division of women into boxes: the booth of the top women and the booth of all those women who apparently do not belong in the first-mentioned booth. As far as we are concerned, a database for suitable women provides for a division within the female labour force, and we should not want that. Forced quotas in the case of women or any category of workers do not work. Another thing is that the VVD and the CDA are not consistent. When it comes to the register top women, they blow pretty high off the tower. I heard Mrs Keijzer say a workability instrument during the request for this debate. The top women initiative should be terminated and recruitment and selection should be left to the market, says Mrs Van Ark of the VVD. We totally agree with that, absolutely. We have therefore supported the motion in question. The difference with VVD and CDA is that at the time we did not agree with the Kalma amendment which set a target of 30% of women directors in the Governance and Supervision Act and which laid the basis for all the government interference that is now threatening behind the front door of the companies. VVD and CDA did agree to that. In fact, these parties, together with the PvdA, tabled that proposed amendment by Mr Kalma/Van Vroonhoven-Kok/Weekers. We are therefore somewhat surprised that these parties are so opposed when the Minister is actually doing nothing but implementing that statutory objective. I find it difficult to believe that the parties who have agreed to this aim did not realise that this will inevitably lead to a quota. If this 30% target is not met on 1 January, which is very likely, the Minister does not say that the pressure on mandatory provisions is increasing. In short, then we enter the next stage, in which the government moves from urge to compulsion and exchanges the root for the stick. We all know that in the background the EU is eager to impose new feasibility measures. The Minister can say a thousand times that he is not in favour of quotas, no matter what she does with vervain, but let there be no misunderstanding about them. In doing so, it is making every effort, according to the ancient teachings of the cultural-Marxist school of the creative society, to impose a kind of sham equality on the peoples of Western Europe, the most astonishing being that the foreman of VNO-NCW embraces this urge and compulsion of old-fashioned socialist cut with passion and pride. Apparently everything slides into this country, nothing's for sure anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr. Chairman. For us, the will of the woman is paramount. If the woman wants to go to the top, we must ensure that this road is cleared of all obstacles. If the woman does not want a career but wants to take care of her children, we must ensure that she has the opportunity to do so without being looked at crookedly. We want to get rid of the negative image that mothers get when they stop working to take care of their children. As far as we're concerned, mothers are also top women. Today we are talking about women in organizations. How many more studies are needed to assess the seriousness of the situation? In the boards of the big Dutch companies we find 55 men and only 7 women. 65% of these companies have no women on their board of directors. Then you're talking about companies like KPN, ING and Ahold. These companies have been choking on intelligent and ambitious women for decades. Unfortunately, they are not awarded the absolute top consciously or unconsciously. We think that is unfair. As far as we're concerned, the glass ceiling needs to be smashed into a thousand pieces. We strive for balance, we strive for balance. Diversity will benefit decision-making. Diversity also stimulates innovation and prevents tunnel vision. We have seen that the male succession has led many large companies to the abyss. Think of Cees van der Hoeven at Ahold, think of the speculative macho banking and the credit crisis. Measures are needed to enforce the balance sheet. We are thinking in the first instance of adoption-and-shaming. Name it, note it, and make sure that consciousness is created, that there is awareness. Quotas can also be envisaged. These will only be effective if they are linked to sanctions. It is already happening in Norway, Belgium and France, for example. Moreover, it is good to give more account of the qualities of man and woman. If a woman does not have two of the ten competences, she usually does not decide to apply. On the other hand, if a man does have four of the ten competences, he will usually try, thinking that he will gradually learn the missing competences. By taking account of these characteristics, we can encourage women to get to the top. Dare to stand up for top women, dare to be diverse!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u52	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that we are talking today about diversity at the top of business and the number of women at that top or, rather, the number of women that is not there. I endorse Mrs Van Ark's remark: let us make this a not too sour debate. That happens sometimes in emancipation debates, but there is really no reason for that at all. Sometimes the problems are serious, but then too, you can have the debate in a good way. I think we can certainly do that here, as the Chamber finds with me that there is broad support for the goal we are setting: more women at the top. I can hear everyone saying warm words about that. Maybe we don't agree on the way you should take care of it, but we do agree that the business community itself should pick up the glove. We're glad business is doing that. I therefore fully agree with Mrs Keijzer, Mrs Van Ark and others who say: it is very good that VNO-NCW has picked up the glove. I think that VNO-NCW deserves a compliment. A number of Members of Parliament have expressed warm words about my involvement. I, for my part, would like to say warm words about the President of VNO-NCW, who is really sticking his neck on this issue. He also says, however, that he attaches great importance to doing it together with the government. I say this to Mrs Keijzer in particular. When you look at other countries, you also see that it is mainly the raising together, the public responsibility together with the private responsibility, that creates a debate and that things are going to change. That is what I am saying to Mrs Van Ark, who advocated a social debate. Perhaps I was not so pleased with all the differences of opinion I saw between some Members of Parliament and myself, but one of the things that I have been very pleased with lately is the debate that has resulted. You can see that something happens, that it's going to live with companies and that it's going to encourage women to come forward. This is necessary, given the position compared to the 30% that the Chamber wants most to achieve at the end of the year. Mrs Karabulut also asked if we are going to make that percentage. To be honest, I think the odds of getting that are extremely small. In the Netherlands, an average of 8.9% of members of a board of directors are women. On average, 11.2% of the members of a supervisory board are women. Now 5.3% of companies comply with the law. So they have already met that 30%. I believe that this is too little and that something is needed. We cannot force this to happen here, but it must be done at companies in the boardrooms, at the board of Commissioners and sometimes at a kitchen table at home, where the question is asked: are you going to ask your candidate or not; are you afraid to take that step? We have achieved that goal of my ambition. I have not only done so, but we have achieved that goal together, together with VNO-NCW and the MPs who have actively mixed up in it. The discussion focuses on the role to be played by the public authorities, in particular in placing the database at the National Register. Mrs Van Ark made it very clear: does the government have to take action itself or should it leave it to others to do so? I have listened carefully to the objections expressed in the Lower House and beyond, including during the previous VAO. I take the objections to a number of design choices very seriously. So I would also like to look at ways of responding to the criticism together with the Chamber. I want to do that together with the Chamber and with VNO-NCW. I would like to say straight away that I am very keen to do it together with the recruitment and selection agencies that have made a great deal of money on this issue. Mrs Van Ark and Mrs Dijkstra asked for this to happen with great anticipation: it must not lead to market distortions. I wholeheartedly agree with them. These too are women who have stuck their necks out. They have started a business themselves and they have focused on encouraging more women at the top in recruitment and selection. I have a great deal of respect for that, and I've been talking to them extensively lately. I want to support and broaden the approach they have taken and the expertise they have built up to other agencies. It is now important that we do this in a good way, with all due regard for it. I understand the objections expressed in Mrs Van Ark's motion: should I interfere with that national register? Do I not apply to recruitment and selection agencies? Shouldn't I stop right now? If I were to stop immediately, the database would stop as of September, October, because until that moment I have entered into an obligation. There's nothing I can do. It is then difficult or actually impossible to meet the wishes of the Chamber for that database to be placed elsewhere in a way which, I hope, can be approved by the Chamber. What I can no longer do is show results by the end of this year. Part of the Chamber is that I am looking at Mrs Cegerek, Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Karabulut............................................................................................................................................................................................... The Kalma amendment has not been tabled for nothing. It has been tabled to bring about improvements. So at the end of the year, I want to show the Chamber what happened. So the question is, how do you do that in a good way? In view of the objections raised in the Chamber and the fact that I must remove any appearance of wrong government interference or conflict of interest, I would like to try to find another organisational solution, which can count on the broadest possible support. The debate we also want to have in society should not be about the means, but about the purpose. It should not be about the form of organisation, but it should contribute to the broad public debate that Mrs Van Ark mentioned. I think that database as such is interesting, because it increases visibility. Sometimes it is said that these women are not there, while a lot of women indicate that these women are there. I want to make that visible and that was also the first goal of the database. Mrs. Karabulut asked how the database works. With Mrs Cegerek she mentioned the number of just over 700. In the meantime, there's 850. It is precisely because I knew that this debate was going to take place that I have not been actively outside in recent times to encourage more women to do so. There are now many women reporting themselves. Isn't it those old boys who control it anymore? No. We ask men, but above all women, if they know women who could, but who are not yet in that position. Next, we want to be so serious that there is an "endorsement" so called in the jargon "to ensure that we never get the blame that there is a list of women who have served themselves and others say: they do not meet the conditions for joining a board of directors or a supervisory board. So you have to have some proof of someone sharing that experience, that can be men and women, and that can say that person meets the qualities that are being asked. This doesn't change the fact that you could also make completely different lists. I wouldn't be against that at all. That could be a next step: lists of people who report themselves and from whom you do not ask for an endorsement. I would like to remove any doubt that the women on the list would be told by those involved that they would all fail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u54	The problem is, everyone here notes, that the old boys network selects only limited and has a limited look. As a result, many women do not get equal opportunities. I don't understand that stamp. The recruitment and selection agencies are professional enough to assess whether someone has the necessary capabilities, qualities and expertise. I find it a strange story that we want to break that old boys network, while they have to say again: yes, woman, you can do it. You'll be on the list, but you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u55	You want to convince companies to select from women. We say that a company can rely on that list if it also wants a 50%-50% list of candidates. That's how you're gonna participate in the database. Of those on that list, a company should not be able to say, if they have a list of 50%-50% of men and women, that those women are already failing in advance, because then we will not achieve any results. As far as the result is concerned, I can say the following. The database has been consulted several times for job vacancies, recruitment and selection agencies and by companies that have shown interest. It is now important that this list not only remains a list of names, but that it is converted into serious presentations from which companies themselves choose who they eventually adopt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u56	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u57	I will come back to that second point. First I want to go to that stamp of the old boys that is needed to get on a list at all. Isn't that why another large group of women is excluded? I am referring to those women who are not in the sight of these men or whom these men think in advance that they are not eligible, whereas these women may have that expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u58	They can also organise an endorsement themselves. The women who report and want to be on that list must have the support of someone. That could be a woman. I have heard many examples of women who were approached. Hans de Boer, the President of VNO, has said the following before, so I can tell you that here too. He thought, "I'm going to approach some women, too." He then called someone he thought he shouldn't, because she would be at the top of all points anyway. When he called her anyway, she said, "I'm so glad you called, 'cause I'm never getting approached." So that's how it happens all the time, that's the visibility. This is point one. This is not the whole solution, but that is the idea behind the original initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u59	I would like to build on Mrs Karabulut's point, because it is a question I am struggling with. In interviews given by the Minister, I have often heard journalists asking how many of these women will be working in the near future. The Minister then indicated that this would be clearer by the end of the year. The danger may arise that if you do not want to be on that list I get the feeling of a "this peanut is okay" stamp, but want a good job, this becomes more difficult. I believe that Mrs Karabulut is pointing this out. There's a certain drive in companies, which could be the danger of getting someone off that list. I would like to avoid that danger, because you would like to have a free role for recruitment and selection agencies and for all women to apply for positions on which they would like to apply. The fact that you're on that list shouldn't be a factor for why you're being hired.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u60	I totally agree with Mrs Van Ark. All I care about is getting that figure up. Are there any more women in those positions they're not in right now? This is one way to do that. When companies say: we know how to find these women ourselves, that's fine. Just because we hear so many times now that these women are not found, I, together with VNO-NCW, have taken the initiative to at least remove that argument by creating such a database. The most interesting question is not what is the success rate of my initiative. If it is possible to do so on a detour and if we can open up the social debate on this with each other, then of course I am also satisfied. As long as we give those talents in the Netherlands a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u61	In parallel to this database, a code has also been signed by recruitment and selection agencies. That initiative, led by Talent to the Summit, I welcomed in the AO. When I hear the Minister's words like that, I believe that such an initiative should be sufficient. The position of the national register, however you turn it or turn it, at least in the present constellation, creates an appearance of distortion of competition or conflict of interest. I'm glad the Minister says she's gonna look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u62	I will come back to that in a moment, because I want to remove that appearance of conflict of interest. I know that there is now a 30% initiative from companies. As far as I know, that will be presented next week. I don't know about that, but I know something will be presented. In my view, therefore, there is not one means that is the overall solution. We need different initiatives. I don't think this database is going to change the whole of the Netherlands, I'm just saying honestly. In that sense, I am also modest about the feasibility ambitions of this database, as I say to Mr Beertema. I think the best way to get companies moving is to realize that the results are getting better. We know, among other things, from American research that companies that are diverse, especially in difficult situations and in times of crisis, are better able to survive. That is the argument that companies are the most appealing. Let us use this argument above all, also in relation to the companies themselves. We note that we are really lagging behind in the Netherlands. That is why I find an additional initiative, such as the 30% initiative of companies, extremely welcome. Mrs Cegerek, Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Karabulut all said that the Netherlands is being overtaken left and right. We're dangling at the bottom. That is indeed the case. We see that there are quotas in many countries. That is not my preference at all. I do not know whether this will improve the operating result, but in terms of the number of women at the top, it will at least improve the result. What I find interesting is what's happening in England now. England opts for active stimulation and self-regulation, but with limited financial support through arrangements for those who travel there from the government, Lord Davies or Abersoch. There are good results, without quotas. The English model does not prescribe the law for companies, but let them make their own moves. There is a quarter of an hour maker, which is supported by a committee of leaders, which actively addresses and stimulates the market. He knows how to keep the focus on the subject. The initiative of Mr De Boer and myself also has two of these kind of quartermasters, Mr Houwen, who has a great deal of experience in business and has been at the top of the list, and Mrs Verbeet, who has a great deal of experience in stimulating women, also in the complex situations that may also arise in business. They know how to break through that. This is what we have in mind. In my view, it is more like the British model than the Swedish model, where the Minister of Justice has proposed to dissolve companies as the ultimate sanction if they do not achieve a minimum representation of 40% women at the top, or Norway, where this is already legally established. So, frankly, I am looking more at the example of Britain than at the examples Norway and Sweden, also given the support in the Chamber and in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u63	Are you done with this part, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u64	Let me make a commitment to Mrs Cegerek right away. She asked about the lessons we can learn from other countries. I have already said a few things about this. I admit to her that I will have a comparative study, particularly on interesting initiatives. I shall therefore go into more detail on the example from Great Britain, among other things. I will send a letter to the Chamber about this in the autumn, about October, when the Kalma amendment expires and the state of play of this database. In that letter I will therefore write to the Chamber about the experience abroad and especially about the experiences that can also be of interest to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u65	The Minister himself says: I do not expect miracles from this register. Of the companies covered by the law, 5% meet the legal target of 30%. Does the Minister exclude a quota now, or does she say: if this continues, will I come up with a proposal to regulate it legally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u66	No, I think that's a far too quick conclusion that's not being discussed right now. I have already said that I would like broad support in the Chamber and beyond. In my view, this gives the best prospects for a sustainable result. In doing so, women will feel taken seriously and, as Mrs Van Ark said, they will not think that they are "the wrong peanut." I can see that there is enthusiasm now, also among women themselves, because they like to be on that list. I would say, therefore, that for the time being, let us concentrate our energies on the means that fit here, which can unleash the debate here and then rely on sufficient support so that they can lead to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u67	However, the Minister himself says: I also want to see results in the end. That legal provision shall expire on 1 January 2016. Does the Minister choose the line of the VVD, which indeed sees quotas as something for fish? Or does she choose the line of Mrs Jongerius and Marit Maij of the PvdA Group, who argue for quotas if there is insufficient progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u68	The answer is: for neither line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u69	No, Mrs Karabulut, you want to respond again, but you have already responded twice. Mrs. Van Ark wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u70	As a result of the reflections on the British model and the Swedish model, I would like to ask the Minister to explicitly reflect on what problem we are solving. Businesses see in many studies confirmed that companies that have a good diversity policy perform better. It is a movement which, however slow, is intrinsically moving in the right direction. I am always prepared to have a discussion, but I would like to know what problem it is and what we want to solve. Can the option of doing nothing be included? Can we also include the option where the government does not intervene and does not interfere in the choice process of private companies and the private choice of women? Can this also be included in the reflections we will have at the end of the year? I also welcome the fact that we are not looking at this until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u71	I'd like to tell Mrs. Van Ark that. The Chamber will then receive information on what we can learn from other countries. So this is more about just the methods and the interventions. What can count on support? What works and what doesn't work? In doing so, I will also pay attention to the underlying motivation to do so. That, in my view, was the answer to Mr Beertema's question. I'm bringing him in now, and I hope I'm doing that right. He asked: are we doing this from an old-fashioned left makeability ideal? Or are we doing this from a perspective where companies think they're just getting better? There is another third perspective from which we could do this, a perspective that has been less discussed this afternoon, namely the fact that there is still a waste of talent in the Netherlands at the moment. I also think it is very important that we give a lot of young women who are doing better in schools and universities. I think it is very important that we use their knowledge. I say to Mrs Keijzer: I do not want to make them feel guilty; neither would I. I also respect individual choices, but I am sorry if we do not encourage women who want to convert that knowledge, and if we also need that knowledge. I will therefore take everything I know, including the information from international research.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u72	I think it is important to look at the Dutch situation, where 75% of working women work part-time, in the context of these specific choices which also have consequences. That is a very specific situation. If you relate the number of women working full-time to the number of women in top positions, and if you compare that with the number of men working full-time and the number of men in top positions, then there's not that much difference at all. At least that difference is much smaller. My biggest fear is that we are continuing on that train on the basis of comparisons with abroad or false fables and that we are coming to interventions in private companies and private choices. I would really like us to have this discussion on the basis of the good facts and not on the basis of an international comparison, but also on the basis of the Dutch labour market situation and what we achieve if we do nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u73	I am happy to do so, because I also want to discuss on the basis of facts and not on the basis of fables. When I look at the facts, I agree with Mrs Van Ark that relatively few women work full-time in the Netherlands. But if you look at the number of women working full-time, the proportion of women at the top in full-time jobs still appears to be significantly lower than the number of women working full-time. Although the difference is smaller, the number of women working more than 35 hours is 22% and the number of women working more than 28 hours is 32%, which is also a substantial job. If you look at the 5,000 largest companies in the Netherlands, the number of women at the top there is 11%. However, you know from me that I am also very much in favour of promoting women's economic independence, preventing dependency and poverty, but also increasing the opportunities for the labour market. So we have to take that with us, but then too, in comparison with other countries, we are lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u74	However, I would like to support Mrs Van Ark's speech. I would also very much like to have taken the alternative that you didn't intervene. Even if it was only because today there are articles in the New York Times, why we in the Netherlands are so very happy. It says, "It has to do with personal freedom." In other words, we decide how we live our lives and when we work full-time or not and are therefore financially dependent or independent to a greater or lesser extent. As I mentioned earlier, when a woman works less and is financially dependent, the partner, usually the father of the children, is dependent on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u75	I would also like to comment on this, but I do not think that the relationship between individual happiness and participation in the labour market is clear. It's the other way around. You can also be very unhappy if you don't have a job or are very poor, and if you do have a job, you can be happy. I believe that Joke Smit already in 1968 in her article Unpleasant placed a direct relationship with the woman in a negative sense. Empowerment is not about becoming more or less happy, but about recognizing your talents and being able to make independent decisions. However, I agree with Mrs Keijzer that the American situation, in which some people need two jobs, which makes them never or hardly see their own children, offers no perspective. It is about balance and balance. With this I have completed the international part. Let me now turn to the question of how we could shape this database in the Netherlands. Let us note that it only makes sense to take action if the business community wants to participate. Fortunately, we have now noticed that. VNO-NCW participates and recruitment and selection agencies have also been contacted. There are already companies that are able to achieve more diversity at the top. For example, you can think of DSM and the Royal BAM Group. These companies deserve a compliment for that, because they really stuck their necks out. I have just told Mrs Van Ark that I have also been in contact with a number of search agencies, so-called predecessors. You can think of Van der Laan & Company, Chasse Search and Partners at Work, who have been actively working for more women at the top for years. I also talked to them about our shared commitment to achieve this important goal. There is no difference of opinion between these companies and me about this commitment and that objective. Within this momentum, they and I are keen to ensure that the market purity of the initiative is safeguarded. That is why I am pleased that Mrs Van der Laan and Mrs Van der Vossen-Jonker are in the sounding board group at my request. I have always stressed that the purpose of the database was to show the boardrooms in the Netherlands that the female talent is there and should not be missed anymore. I say to Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Cegerek that the database was not intended for structural purposes. Therefore, the public authorities would not have to engage in structural recruitment in the private market. The government had a most exciting role. Phase 2 ends in October, because then the contract with the National Register expires. That contract was properly concluded by means of a call for tenders. But at that time the database could also be placed elsewhere. This can be done by an independent foundation, for example at the Talent Foundation to the Top. But the database could also be transferred to another foundation. In doing so, I could even better ensure that there is support: not only for companies and at VNO-NCW, but also for women's search agencies. I want to explore that because I want to take away any appearance of involvement in the market. I have noticed that there is such an appearance and that at least Mrs Van Ark and others are afraid of it. I would like to take the utmost care to ensure that we keep the search agencies as close as possible and that the government can also take away the appearance of involvement. However, I would also like to be careful with regard to women in the database. They have indicated that they want to be visible and that they want something to be done with their data. I feel responsible for that, too. I would like to see if I can find a form that will resolve the organisational concerns that are attached to the current construction and at the same time hold the commitment with VNO-NCW, and in which I can also take responsibility for the women on the list. Mrs. Van Ark made the comparison with a mobile subscription, which you can cancel during the notice period and then you don't have to call anymore. I agree with her: I do not want to call myself at all. I want other companies and recruitment and selection agencies to call women. I hope Mrs Van Ark will agree with that. Perhaps I can also interpret Mrs Van Ark's remark as follows: 'You should stop interfering at all'. I would then like to do so as soon as possible, at least not in the form of a register or a company that organizes it. I want to put it with an independent foundation. I would like to use the time between now and October to see where the initiative can be accommodated, with the continued involvement of VNO-NCW and, of course, implicitly also of the government. But I don't want it with an organization like the National Register anymore. I want it at a foundation like Talent to the top, and then as temporary support, no more than that. In the meantime, I can, as I say to Mrs Dijkstra, ensure the highest possible degree of purity in the roll by contacting the sounding board group and having it carefully examined, for example, whether there is a primacy of the National Register. The register does not have that position, nor does it formally, but it is good that in the meantime this is tested as closely as possible by an accountant to allow an accountant to access the logbook at any time to check for topvrouwen.nl compliance with the rules. I could also have a notary look at the vacancies submitted in order to decide whether a company or agency can access the database. In the meantime, I can guarantee it as well as possible and I'm going to look for another accommodation, which could take shape from about October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u76	I am always a little suspicious about temporary measures, because they tend to become very permanent. But I have heard the Minister right; she has said it many times. I'll take the tempo for now. I am still not quite clear why it is not possible to transfer OCW's share at the moment, for example to a foundation like VNO-NCW, to make it clear that taking over a task from the market, which creates the appearance of conflict of interest, is simply not up to OCW. I don't know why that should take until October.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u77	Because we made a call for tenders for the database. That's where the National Register came out. With that, we have signed a contract, which expires in October. I can rip my hands off, but that means nothing's gonna happen anymore. You lose that money, nothing happens at all, and the whole initiative collapses. I also note that VNO-NCW very much stresses that it attaches great importance to the continuation of the initiative. VNO-NCW wouldn't want the initiative stante pede to stop. Then the whole initiative would fall off the table. To be honest, I would find that difficult for the women who are now on the list. I do not think that this would contribute to promoting social debate, including in companies, in order to achieve more women in the top positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u78	There is a Chamber speech to which the Minister could refer, for example, to hand over the contract to a party where the database is in a more appropriate place: a company, VNO-NCW or a foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u79	VNO-NCW itself made it very clear that it could not do so. VNO-NCW is an association and says it does not have the organisation and the means to do so. It can be transferred to a foundation. If you want to prepare that properly, you're gonna need some time. If that can be done faster than October without major financial, negative consequences, I am very happy to be prepared to do so. I am also prepared to take a number of measures in the meantime, for example a clear role for an accountant and see if we can put the sounding board group in position as best we can. That is why I said that I would like to talk to the sounding board again myself. It's May now. We're talking about a period of four or five months. You're gonna need it to set up something good. Stichting Talent to the Top is not one-two-three ready either. You can't put it there tomorrow, because she has to take action for that too. I am talking about a temporary measure, but I honestly expect that after 1 January we will still need something to improve the Dutch situation, although it will also be temporary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u80	I am very curious to see if the Minister has finished her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u81	Not with my whole speech, but I'm a long way off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u82	I kind of miss the point. To reassure the VVD, the Minister has already mentioned eight times that it is temporary. So it is clear to us that it is temporary, but how temporary is temporary? And what are the objectives? Apparently, there are 850 new women in it who were not in the picture before, but of course it is about the result. What is the first result? What other circumstances? Other colleagues have rightly pointed out that this is not only a matter of women in the position, but also of women in a certain position. So it's also about the circumstances. So what exactly is this broader plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u83	Fortunately, I was able to start by saying that at least a very, very large part of this Chamber agrees with me on the objective. We also agree that something must be done. Something must change: there must be more women in top positions in the Netherlands. That needs to be improved. I'm not going to commit to percentages. I just answered that. However, I would like to see greater awareness and that we can also see that. I want there to be more transparency and ultimately this will also lead to a higher percentage of women in top positions. I want this to happen faster than is predicted, because according to those predictions, if I do, we're gonna get out somewhere in 2028.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u84	So I understand from the Minister that it may take until 2027. She may not be able to do so now and she would like to come back to it later, but I would like the Minister to make it clear on the basis of her plans what she wants so that we can have a clear debate on it. I like it all and I like it all and I can make things up, but of course we have to see if progress is being made. We must assess this on the basis of objectives. We then agree again with each other on what we are all doing there. I miss that plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u85	Objectives are not always quantitative. I am going to have another discussion with the Chamber about higher education and return thinking. Everyone says that we need to get rid of all these quantitative criteria; we need to look at them qualitatively. Maybe we should do the same here. It is also a question of opening up this discussion and of creating a discussion among companies about why they do not have women and what they can improve. That needs to change. Of course, this should eventually lead to a faster increase in the number of women in top positions, but I do not think that it will help us if we say that it has only succeeded when the 30% has been achieved. No, we're behind schedule, but that 30% is a very reasonable percentage. However, a number of steps need to be taken to get there. Unfortunately, as much as I would like to see it different, my suspicion is that we need more time than the months that remain until 1 January 2015. I hope that these measures will help to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u86	The minister himself comes up with that 30%. I heard the Minister say that she does not really have a goal, but of course it is about achieving that 30%. Indeed, we are dealing with the expiry of the period mentioned in the Kalma amendment. We're working on that right now. The Minister is trying to speed that up. The Minister says she doesn't want to anticipate that, but that's not that far away anymore. I have also drawn attention in my contribution to the possibility of imposing on companies the possibility of clarifying in annual reports what they are actually doing about diversity. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she's inclined to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u87	Yes, please. Mrs Dijkstra is, of course, right; that 30% is also our goal. I still think that this is a reasonable percentage. I can't just say that this database must have helped so many women in this year's top position. As I said to Mrs Van Ark earlier, I do not care how that happens, as long as that percentage increases. Mrs Cegerek referred to the points raised by Mrs Yücel in the general consultation. It has mentioned five areas of action, with great urgency. The selection committees must be balanced. That seems to me to be an excellent appeal to companies. Universities have been working that way for a long time. I hope that the initiative presented next week will also show something about this. The second point is more balanced candidate lists; 50/50. The database is an important answer to that. The third point is targets for the semi-public sector. Institutions from this sector can join the Charter Talent to the Summit. Several organisations have done the same. Mrs Yücel's fourth point was not to approve annual reports if the "pass or explain" standard is not met. Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Karabulut also mentioned this. So there is already an obligation to answer for this. Mrs Dijkstra was right to point out that many companies do not comply with this obligation. That is why I think it is important to call on auditors to pay more attention to this. I have also been in contact with the Managing Director of the Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants, Mrs Van Arkel. She has committed herself to this and has now placed an article in the accountant newsletter. Mrs Yücel's fifth point concerned naming-and-shaming, which was also discussed by Mr Kuzu. I say that I prefer to choose the path of the database in the action programme to help employers find suitable candidates. The risk of taking-and-shaming is that you get the wrong discussion. Then it is not the companies that are doing well that are being criticized, but the other ones. But that could very well be the next step. I think this is a theme that we should take with us in the autumn. We're doing more than just that database. It is a means and not an end in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u88	I understand this very well and I share that view of the Minister, but we have known each other on this subject for years. We both know it's really hard to get it moving really well. The whole policy depends on good intentions, but when you look at what is really being achieved, it turns out to be very difficult. I'd like to hear a little more ambition from the Minister. Talent to the summit has been there for so long. Some companies have committed themselves to this. I would like to hear a little more about the Minister's ambition and how it should take shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mrs Dijkstra's frustration is also my frustration. We've known each other a long time. I know that she herself has been very involved in very good initiatives, for example on part-time work. It's going very slowly. All I can do is try to speed that up, support bottom-up initiatives and give those who want to change it a position to do so. You're gonna need other parties to that. I believe that those who come from the sector itself, such as VNO-NCW, but also individual companies, can change that. My motivation is to use all the instruments we have in a good way. I think that we should, above all, continue with 'pass, explain' and the role of auditors. I'm trying to do it another way. At the same time, that is an answer to Mrs Karabulut's question as to whether I am only doing something for women at the top or for others. Economic independence is an extremely important issue. I have organized a whole 'power on tour' and Own Force initiatives on this subject. They start by stimulating women's self-esteem. So that can also be about women who haven't worked in a very long time. I am enthusiastic about this because we are trying to shape it in a regional way. Meanwhile, we have had big meetings in Roermond, Eindhoven, Zwolle, Groningen and Rotterdam. Next week we will be in Almere and there are even municipalities that want to participate on their own initiative. We make deals there, for example for women who have long had benefits, women who have a job but want to go higher, but also for women who can go to top positions. As far as I'm concerned, it's all about ambition. I would point out to Mrs Dijkstra that it is not a question of just doing something for women at the top. Maybe it's even more important to do something for all those women at the bottom. My emancipation policy does not want to exclude anyone in that regard. I must say to Mr Beertema that I do not want to create two groups of women. I want to take advantage of the talents in the Netherlands, which we have plenty of, in which we are ahead of other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u90	Is there a need for a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u91	I'm not allowed to interrupt anymore, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u92	No, there's been enough interruptions. I give the floor to Mrs Cegerek.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr. Chairman. As I mentioned earlier, I am taking over this debate from Mrs Yücel this afternoon. As a woman, it is very special to be able to debate an issue such as emancipation. Despite modern society, we still live in a strongly male-dominated society. I think it is extremely good that our Minister is doing everything in his power to help more women in top positions. I would therefore like to thank her for the commitments and answers she has given, in particular with regard to our neighbouring countries. She cited the British model as an example. I also asked a question about an action plan that Mrs Yücel has already submitted in general consultation. The Minister has responded to this and I agree with the commitments, but perhaps it would be wise to send the details in a letter to the committee so that we can see exactly what means it intends to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for her first answer. However, I feel that a number of false contradictions are being introduced. It's not either the database or naming-and-shaming and it's also not whether the database or quotas. In an interrupting debate with Mrs Dijkstra, the Minister said that it was so slow because it was difficult to get things moving. That's right, because the government can't get things like this moving; it has to come from the people themselves. The Minister said at some point in her speech that she had a modest role to play in relation to that database and then, in response to my question, she said whether it could be transferred in concrete terms that the initiative would collapse without OCW intervention at the moment. So I have only one question in my second term: how will the Minister meet the wishes of the Chamber, as expressed in the motion, to end the interference with the database?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u95	I've got Mrs. Keijzer next on my list, but we're trading in order. Mrs. Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr. Chairman. I can be very short. It is good that the visibility of women remains an important focus. As the Minister said, it is not just about the database but about the combination of all these different parts. They are not, as Mrs Van Ark says, false contradictions. They are not at all contradictions; they are all actions that need to be taken at the same time. I have always learned that role models are important, including in the emancipation of women. Women in top positions can also stimulate ambitions among women who may now think that they aren't getting involved and may not be making full use of their talents. In that sense, I very much agree with the Minister: we must continue to formulate high ambitions. In response to Mrs Van Ark, I would say that, as far as I am concerned, the government can certainly play a role in this. We can see that from the database. If the government, together with VNO-NCW, knocks on the door of companies to ask about women with talent, they will be more likely to respond to them than when this is done by commercial parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr. Chairman. In order to promote diversity, more is needed than a register or a discussion on how many women participate or do not participate in the top of large companies or have administrative positions. It is about diversity in the broad sense. These are people with a different background, children of migrants. It is true that women are involved, but it is also a question of the disabled. This will have to change from bottom to bottom in companies and in society. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas diversity in the workplace is important for people and business;]] [[noting that accountability and understanding of policies and results can lead to greater awareness, a more diverse workforce and more equal opportunities for men and women within companies and businesses;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to include accountability for the applied diversity policy as a mandatory paragraph in annual reports of companies and companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30420-225]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her first term. We are pleased to hear that the Minister is now at least pre-sorting on the British model of self-regulation, in which the government helps and drives at an appropriate distance. We didn't have to, but it's better than the fear of liquidation of companies in Norway. In fact, the Minister says that no mandatory quotas will be imposed from 2016. There will certainly be no such sanctions. In any case, that is my interpretation of the Minister's first term. The question remains as to whether that interpretation is correct. The Minister also said that her policy is not based on old-fashioned creatorism. I agree with the Minister that it's incredibly important to train girls to be independent female professionals. Isn't it true, however, that the position of women since Joke Smit brought up the minister about it hasn't just changed a bit? We're talking about a giant catch-up. It's been really big. Girls do so well in higher education and in university that they catch up on boys on all sides, both in numbers of students and in study achievements. I don't mean to say that emancipation is complete, but what's the matter? At least Joke Smit would have welcomed this. If these talented young women, who we see perform better in all forms of education than boys, in their own homes, in their own circles and in consultation agree to work part-time, for example to devote themselves to education or care, who are we as a government to enter? If you do, I'm gonna tell this minister, if you do get into it consciously, that's a workability idea. I don't have another word for it. Maybe the minister can reflect on that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u99	The Minister can respond immediately. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mrs Cegerek that by the end of the year, i.e. by October, the Chamber will receive a letter from me in which I will deal with the situation at that time, the experience in other countries, in particular the experiences that are of interest to the Netherlands, and the information we have on the relationship between women working in the Netherlands and other factors that can explain why we are in favour of it as we are today. So we're all looking at it in an international comparative perspective. I agree with Mrs Van Ark that movement must come from the bottom up and that the government cannot organise it. You can't prescribe that. You can't make a law for it, which makes it all okay. After all, if such a law does not fit in with the world of life, we still have a problem. However, the government can support and stimulate. Furthermore, I've been asked how I'm going to end the interference. Specifically, my proposal is that when the first phase of the database ends, on 1 October, we also end the contract with topvrouwen.nl. In the meantime, we are looking at a different design, so that I can ensure that the initiative is preserved, for example through the temporary support of an independent foundation or from the Talent Foundation to the Top, but with the government at an appropriate distance. That design will also be temporary. How long is temporary, we still have to look at it. I will make a proposal to the Chamber in the autumn. At least it won't have a structural embedding. It will also depend on what we can learn from other countries. This design is a bit like that in the United Kingdom, where Lord Davies doesn't do his business alone. We have two quarters of an hour makers who are very active in this, but who do get some support. That's what they get in England. So you can still argue about all that. For the support of Talent to the summit, part of the subsidy is also paid. We do the same for other activities. But the government will be more remote. If that is meant to end the interference, I will say to the Chamber that I am going to shape it in this way over the next few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u101	What I meant when I filed the motion is that if you open the website of topvrouwen.nl, there from the very beginning is a cliff-and-ready that it is an initiative of OCW. I have acted against this all the time, and I have tabled a motion on that. I don't think that's the proper functioning of the government. Can the Minister, so to speak, change that website tomorrow, so that the transition is already clear? That was the thrust of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u102	Yeah, I can get my name there tomorrow, but that doesn't change the organization of that website. If, however, the Chamber attaches itself to it, it is possible. I am happy to do so, but I would add that we have already arranged the financing through the tender procedure. So it's for the image out. If that helps, I'll take the name off tomorrow. Maybe that'll help counteract the appearance of conflict of interest. That is not a big point for me, because I am concerned about how it works. What is important to me is that, in the outward appearance, we do show that the government and VNO-NCW consider this important. That's what I hear from VNO-NCW. They say: we do not want to do it alone. We note that there is a steering problem, that there are many parties involved and that not one party has the ability to solve it. For VNO-NCW it is therefore very important that this project does not end. In appearance, its success is determined precisely by the fact that VNO-NCW carries it together with the government. That is something else, because it is a complicated debate, and it is also complicated to understand this motion properly, rather than perhaps thinking that I am interfering with the actual recruitment and selection. I'd really like to take that thought away. I also want to take away any appearances of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u103	I want to give the room to avoid misunderstandings, but not to re-enter the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u104	It is indeed the motion in which the government is asked to end OCW's interference with the database. That's what the motion says. I am not interested in the Minister's picture, but I am interested in the fact that it says on the website that this is an initiative of OCW. As a result, women and businesses have received the addition of VNO-NCW by Mrs Dijkstra, but I check with the Minister and not VNO-NCW the feeling that they will end up in the government portal when they register on the website. I have a problem with that, and that's what my motion is about. If the Minister can hand it over to an independent foundation tomorrow, that is, as far as I am concerned, a good implementation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u105	Well, there's a problem there, because I can't hand it over to an independent foundation tomorrow. I have to prepare for that. I need time for that. I want to do this as soon as possible, but not later than October, when the contract with the National Register expires. That's what I'm telling you. I can take my name and the reference to OCW from the site, but I would nevertheless like to convey to women, together with the President of VNO-NCW, that we both want them to make themselves known as talent. You do that by writing letters. In my opinion, that should be possible, but I would like to ask what the Chamber thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u106	I do think the Minister should be careful about removing her name from the website. She's actually saying herself that this is undesirable. You really do not want transparency, because then you do not want to indicate what you are actually dealing with. I have indicated that I believe that public-private cooperation is the strength of the initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u107	That's exactly the dilemma here. I would like to look at the Chamber, because I do not want to get misunderstandings again, where we feel that we understand each other when people think that we think differently about the substance of the matter. I think, in order to make use of transparency, the most practical proposal is that I modify the website so that it is more clearly stated that this initiative is supported by OCW, but that it is more explicit than today that OCW and the government do not interfere with the actual choice. Now it says it's a government initiative. I agree that I will ensure that it is housed with an independent foundation, either the Talent Foundation to the Top or another foundation. I will do this at the latest this autumn, because in October the contract with the National Register ends and that also ends topvrouwen.nl. So I will do so by autumn at the latest, but we will see if it can be done sooner, so that we can move it to another place earlier. As long as I'm preparing for that, I'll keep my finger on the wrist to protect that "Chinese Wall." From the sounding board group, including women who have recruitment and selection agencies in this area, I would like to hear whether they consider this sufficiently secure. To be honest, that seems to me to be the most practical thing. I think we are doing justice to the different sounds that I hear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u108	For the sake of clarity, I would like to give Mrs Van Ark the floor once again, because it is a motion from her hand and because the debate is about her motion. I hope that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you for the opportunity to intervene again, Mr President. As the author of the motion, I would have liked to go further, but I will not repeat it. Feasibility and desirability are two different things. I understand the Minister and would like to give her the opportunity to implement the motion in this way, because our position is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u110	Mrs Dijkstra said that we must continue to use the talent. We agree on that. We certainly must continue to do so. Again, this is one part, but not the whole of the approach and the solution. Mrs Karabulut has the motion in part No. 225. That motion calls for proposals to include responsibility for the applied diversity policy as a mandatory paragraph in annual reports of companies and companies. I do not recommend this motion, even if it is only because the responsibility for it lies with the colleagues of V and J, this is about the Administrative and Supervisory Act (SZW). This calls for a more extensive discussion than we can have here today, also because it has hardly been part of the debate. In my opinion, it does require a weighting. I know that Minister Asscher of SZW is working on a charter on diversity. When he comes up with plans, I think that's the time to get it involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u111	I think that's a weak answer. Can I at least ask the thought of this Minister of Emancipation? I was told that the Minister said: we have to do a great deal; it is not about concrete objectives, but we have to meet the target. She also said that companies need to change their policies. But if we don't even ask them to provide transparency, the Minister himself writes in her letter that 62% of companies are not accountable. How are we supposed to change this from the start?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u112	I am not against it in advance, but when I issue a judgment on a motion, I also need to know exactly what the state of affairs is. I don't know right now. We haven't talked about this either. I note that this debate, as well as its implementation when it comes to the database, is already complicated enough. It is complicated to organise this really well and to take business into account. Mrs Karabulut can also continue her motion, because the Chamber will soon have a debate with Mr Asscher on diversity. That's the place to discuss it. But again, I have nothing against transparency. I said earlier that companies should be transparent about the agreements made. That was, by the way, the fourth point in Mrs Yücel's list of action points. I even said it's a problem that companies don't do this. First, let's make sure we solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u113	The Minister owes it entirely to himself, to her coalition partner and to the disagreement between the two parties that a mess has arisen as a result of the register. I would like to continue the motion, but I would ask the Minister if she would like to discuss this with her colleagues so that I can get a clear response from this cabinet and not be sent from the cabinet to the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u114	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u115	Mrs Karabulut, do you hold your motion on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u116	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u117	At the request of Mrs Karabulut, I propose her motion (30420, No. 225). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-21-tweedekamer-8.u118	I thank the Minister.
