ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. We already had the very serious situation of the mole in Brabant who had access to very sensitive information and could pass it on to the underworld. We asked for a letter on that. Last Friday, the Minister sent a letter with more information on this matter. A debate has already been requested, so we are going to debate it. However, the concerns appear to be greater than initially seemed to be the case. Last Friday NRC Handelsblad reported that no fewer than 60 police officers were not screened, even though they should have been screened. 30 of them also had to leave very quickly. We don't know exactly the background to that. We need to hear more about that. This morning, De Telegraaf headlined another leak with the police. This was about a man in the East of the Netherlands suspected of leaking information. The frightening stories keep coming. That affects the confidence in the police. That also affects the trust within the police, between policemen. As far as their security and sensitive information are concerned, they must be able to rely on each other. In any case, we can conclude that, at least on a regular basis, the security of police officers, people working undercover and witnesses is being treated carelessly. It's about people doing important work. That is why it is very serious. I have a number of questions about that. First of all, is the message that 60 agents should have been screened in 2009 but not screened? Did these people have access to systems with confidential information on criminal matters before they were screened? Was the suspect police mole from Brabant, the mole the minister wrote about last Friday, in this group? According to the President of the Central Works Council of National Police, it is much more common for new agents to start working before the AIVD has been able to perform the required screening. Is that right? Is it a larger group than this group of 60 people? What is the Minister going to do to prevent agents from getting to work without screening and getting to sensitive, important information before being examined by the AIVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Segers for once again asking questions about this matter. I repeat that this is a very serious matter for me. It seems that a police officer has actively and for a long time provided information to criminals. This undermines the integrity of the National Police, as Mr Segers rightly points out. All you can hope for is that this is an incident, but we know from the past that such incidents have occurred before. We also know, I say this in the direction of Mr Segers, that such incidents may also occur in the future. I can neither confirm nor deny the accuracy of the message that Mr Segers is asking questions about at the moment, because the Chief Constable is in the process of looking at what is going on with this group. That's what I wrote in my letter last Friday. Further research is being carried out in a number of areas. I will, of course, inform the Chamber as soon as possible, as soon as possible, of the results of these investigations. I note that there is also a criminal investigation going on. This limits my freedom of movement to answer questions. Especially in this particular case, I do not want to endanger the criminal investigation in any way. If it is true what this gentleman is suspected of, then it is a very serious matter and, as far as I am concerned, it is appropriate to impose a very high penalty. Therefore, I do not want to jeopardise the outcome of any criminal proceedings in any way. This also means that it is not possible to have a debate, which Mr Segers is quite right to request, in the short term. I should then speak with flour in my mouth, because I am tied to my feet during that debate. I would like to suggest to Mr Segers whether it would be more sensible to have that debate if the Chief Constable had given me an answer to those specific points, on the basis of the investigations he is conducting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	The Minister is actually ahead of another request, but I give the floor to Mr Segers to continue with his questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	Sure. I'm gonna ask around anyway. The questions are about policy, about errors that could have been avoided and about procedures that can be adapted. They're not about a criminal case. I'm not asking for a specific criminal case. I ask the Minister what he can do to ensure that this drama cannot repeat itself. In his letter last Friday, the Minister writes about 50 agents who would be in a certain batch of 2009. Is that the same group as the 60 unscreened agents that was written about in NRC Handelsblad? Is the Minister prepared to outline a broader perspective in another letter? In his letter, the Minister addressed that particular case and, quite indirectly, a larger group of 50 agents, but could he also look at what is going on in general terms? I have another follow-up question. Does the AIVD have enough capacity to handle this? Is it true that it takes too long and that the AIVD does not have enough people and sufficient time to screen the people who come to important places and can access important information quickly enough before they get to work on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Segers is actually asking three questions. What is the Minister doing to prevent this kind of thing from happening again? In staccato, first of all, the chief of police is considering whether there are any other police officers from the specific customized classes that I have written in my letter, to whom no statement of no objection would have been given. All trust functions are checked, so it is checked that people who have a trust function also have that statement. On the basis of a sample, it is examined whether everyone has the right authorisations. In addition, I asked the Safety and Justice Inspectorate to investigate the design and functioning of the integrity policy. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about this. This includes screening policy and authorisation policy. However, I have already established that there is a need for broader screening than is currently legally possible. In the short term, I will submit a bill to your Chamber to improve the screening area. Mr Segers also asked whether it was the same group and whether the AIVD had sufficient capacity. I propose that I include both questions in the next letter I will send on this subject, probably after the investigation on the part of the Chief Constable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	Then one more time about the letter. It is indeed good if we have a broader perspective and if we also zoom in on the capacity of the AIVD and the speed of procedures. At the same time, this cannot wait until the criminal proceedings are complete, because that can take much longer, especially if there is an appeal. However, I ask whether the letter can be sent to the Chamber more quickly, so that we know more quickly how serious the matter is and what we can and must do to prevent this tragedy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	I think it's a good thing that I'm sending a note to the Chamber today, indicating what the Chief Constable's expected timeline is for both relevant investigations. I fully agree with Mr Segers that if we have that intelligible, then we will not yet have the inspection investigation and certainly not the WODC investigation, which I have also written in my letter, nor the legislative proposal, on the basis of the results of the Chief Constable's initial investigation, we will be able to hold a debate in the Chamber. I'll let you know today when the Chief Constable expects him to send both investigations my way so I can offer them to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	This affects not only the integrity of the police, but also ongoing criminal investigations. They go to the... I will not use a word that should be deleted from the Acts, but they are not going to end well, let me put it this way. We have heard the Minister say all kinds of things that you can do in advance, but I think he can answer the question of what you do "during." Reports have appeared in the media that, for example, the policeman from Weert reported himself ill if he threatened to run into the lamp, and then could simply resume his work again. So that's more like a culture. What is the Minister going to do with reports of suspicions that someone is not entirely clean? Then we can act immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	My impression is, but I say this very carefully, that reports of integrity issues within the National Police are effectively and actively taken up. I propose that I include this aspect in the letter I promised Mr Segers. I don't mean today's letter, but the one from the police chief's investigations. In any case, I note, also given this morning's report on the matter raised in August, that is, before the matter we are discussing today, that it has also been raised there. That doesn't mean that it happened in time. That is, of course, also the issue of concern, especially with regard to the effects on any other investigations, as Mrs Helder said. That is also being investigated by the Public Prosecutor's Office, as I reported to the Chamber in my letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	It has been said before, and rightly so: moles and leaks are of course harmful to the police and to the appearance of the police. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister states that he wants to send the investigations to the Chamber as soon as possible. I do have one more question. How many cops have actually been put out of action over the past five years because of leaks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	That is a good question, which I cannot answer very precisely. I indicated in my previous reply that in 2014 eleven police officers left the service because of an integrity problem. I do not know if that was due to leaks, as Mr Sjoerdsma says. This is reported to the Chamber every year, so if Mr Sjoerdsma wants that information, it is available to him. Of course, I will have to report on 2015 but the figures for 2014 are already known to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	Then we assume that we will still get the figures for 2015.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	It is, of course, important that the Minister provides all police officers with that screening as soon as possible. My question, however, is about education. We have received a letter from the minister in which he indicated about the police mole that several people at the police academy have indicated earlier: pay attention, because things are not going well and we have a lot of concerns. Now the case is that this minister wants to cut more than one fifth of the budget of the police academy. He does so at a time when the Minister himself states in his letter that education is extremely important for the signal function. How does he intend to ensure and ensure that the police academy can do its job properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u15	That's part of the inspection investigation. The whole policy on integrity, including the police academy, is considered. I don't want to anticipate that. Mrs Kooiman is right to raise a point. She and I discussed earlier that integrity education should be part of the education at the police academy. It is, by the way, true, but it is a question of whether that is enough. There is no doubt that this will be demonstrated by the inspection investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u16	Then we shall come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u17	This is a very serious matter. In response to a question from Mr Segers, the Minister indicated that he cannot rule out the possibility of this happening again in the future. In fact, he confirms what the chairman of the central works council said, namely that this is much more common. It is therefore important that action be taken as soon as possible. According to the chairman of the central works council, one of the reasons is that there is a serious shortage of detectives. That's why policemen without AIVD screening are sent directly into the meadow, just to put it bluntly. Does the Minister recognise this underlying cause and is he prepared to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u18	As I wrote in my letter, this was discussed in 2009. When his detectives rushed in. My letter says that people were recruited at the time without the proper value of trust. The corps managers have been asked to check whether this is still the case. I will get an answer to that and I will inform Mr Slob about this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u19	The predecessors of this minister, Mr Opstelten and Mr Teeven, were so-called crime fighters. Thus they profiled themselves towards the outside world. For the camera they used heavy words. Have they failed to put things in order internally? Have they failed to properly screen their own people? Does Minister Van der Steur, as a new minister, refer to an organisation where his predecessors have only focused on the outside world and have not looked at whether everything was in order internally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u20	I can answer Mr Öztürk as follows. I don't recognize myself in the picture. My predecessor, Minister Opstelten, was responsible for the National Police. Secretary of State Teeven had no responsibility for this, as Mr Öztürk undoubtedly knows. Minister Opstelten has established the National Police in good consultation with the Chamber on the basis of the organisation's care. This was one of the steps needed to improve internal processes in many areas. On the basis of the letter I sent on Friday, Mr Öztürk can also come to the correct conclusion that this is a very serious matter in which serious mistakes have been made. I indicated in the letter how I will proceed with this. This leads to a number of broad measures on which I will periodically inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you for your answers. You'll be with us for a while. The following questions are also asked to you.
