ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. I am standing here asking this Minister how he and his officials managed to pay two people, one of whom apparently believed in the ministry that they had supernatural powers, fat above the legally permitted salary, to sneak up on it and then to come up against the newspaper with excuses that have very short legs. These excuses are, in fact, a long nose for us as a Chamber, for society and for the citizens who need to cut back. They're even going against this cabinet's own laws. Boer & Croon, the company that got into trouble because of rather slippery financial constructions, raked in no less than three times the beaming standard for Jo van den Hanenberg: €63,500 monthly, 24 months, plus another car with driver for which €384,000 could be paid. Then I would like to say nothing about the man who is now the sg at that same Ministry of Security and Justice, who collected the same bin of money, albeit over a somewhat shorter period. The minister says they weren't top officials. Bullshit! After all, they were in the organograms of the Ministry itself. Why wouldn't these be top officials? Even if they weren't, why, given the level of salaries, hasn't it been decided to disclose those salaries, as was required? That's what the law says! Why have the procurement rules not been respected? The law is very clear in that, and I know that law like no other. But the most pressing question is: did the Minister really know about this whole process? If not, how can that be? If so, what does he think of his own actions? Does he regret this? Is he willing, as I hope, to recover a large part of the amount paid? Finally. There is still no properly functioning ICT in the police. Doesn't that prove that these men weren't worth their money anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Gesthuizen for the questions she has put. Did I know about the course of events? Yes. I've been notified of this and I've agreed to it. How did I get into my head? Let me put it this way. Police ICT received a very sharp negative opinion on the progress of the attack program. A large risk category was identified and continuity was under discussion. At the time the CIO left and had to leave, it was absolutely necessary to replace it at the level that could and had to be intervened. That's the most important thing. Otherwise, the continuity of police ICT would really have been at risk at the time; we would have had that before. I couldn't and couldn't take the risk that the police's ICT would go away. That was the second question. Under the law, I have looked into what we should do. Let me also say that we have not made a tender. We first looked internally to see if there were people available through the ABD. They were not available at the level that was desirable. That's when we figured out what needed to be done. We could have done it without a tender. It's something you don't have to do too often, but it's procedurally possible, provided the highest in rank that's the It wasn't made public. The Top Income Standards Act indicates when to do so. I've checked all over the place. This obligation applies to externals when they hold a post at the executive summit. In this case it was a function that ended up with two people who did their job through Boer & Croon. The summit is the police department, the chief of police and his people, of the National Police. These people were not among them, because the CTO was the function of one of those people who was subordinate to the CEO, who is part of the leading team. These are the answers I would like to give to Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	Of course, a large number of questions remained, because that is where the Minister goes again: he pretends that a miraculous miracle worker who had to cost a lot of money had to be brought in to solve the problems, which, by the way, have not yet been solved. Do you know what they used to call that? A quack; then you brought in a quack for far too much money and then didn't do his job. I find this incomprehensible. I therefore ask the Minister whether he believes that he is acting with this explanation in the spirit of the Top Income Standards Act, because this is simply not possible? Moreover, the Minister says that they were not top officials, but that is without prejudice to the fact that he should have made public the salary they deserved. However, according to the rules, a top official is a member of a management team in which decisions are made for the entire organisation. Isn't that a definition that these two people should have been covered by? Finally, the sg had to give permission to comply with those procurement rules. I haven't seen this yet; but well, this must be a unique one. Was Mr Van den Hanenberg's colleague, currently the Minister's sg...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	I would ask you not to name any names, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Was the current sg of justice also responsible at any time for the continued appointment of his previous colleague? Was that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	There were a few more questions. Did they do their job well? The answer to that is yes. I have also been able to inform the Chamber about this with repeated letters from the review board, which indicated that it is clever and necessary what has been done and that three priorities have been set. This concerns, firstly, continuity: make sure that the system does not fail. The second priority is to improve. The third priority is to ensure innovation. They have indeed firmly maintained the first priority: they have succeeded in ensuring continuity. Under the WNT text, these are indeed top officials. I checked it; I checked it and double-checked it. Of course, it's some kind of decision that you might only make once in your life. Maybe it's too much when I say it's too much. However, I know exactly the momentum in which I did it, because it was necessary. The third point is indeed the sg. You can, and you can, because of continuity. That decision was ultimately necessary for the CTO, and I do not mention names which are always necessary, also from the same point of view that there had to be continuity. The sg was ultimately the highest in the official pyramid to make that decision, at intercession of others and with my consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	Deeply sad, I can't say otherwise. The minister's sticking to his story. So we won't see that money again; we can whistle at that. I know one thing, namely that all the people who have read this story in the newspaper say: scandalous, we have to cut budget cuts even harder in health care and these types rattle together. I find it a disgrace and I suspect that the last word has not yet been spoken in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	The minister said the CIO had to leave on the basis of a report. The person who co-founded that report was then hired, for a lot of money, as an IT consultant. Now it's two-and-a-half: either it's someone who's been hired as an external consultant or it's someone who's been temporarily hired and joined the force of the police. If that's the case, I can get a little more of that service car. But if it's just a hired consultant, how come he gets a service car at his disposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	The first is that it was two people who entered through Boer & Croon. The second is that he is a highly respected man with a high knowledge of ICT, in the review board in itself desired to perform this function. He did indeed get a service car, like others, to do his job. That's exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	The top incomes are an item that is talked about in the media, in society and in the Chamber. Did the Minister wonder for one second whether he should inform the Chamber himself? We heard him wring himself in all corners to explain that if you interpret them so and so, you might just be able to say that he wasn't obliged to do so. But did the minister simply consider informing the Chamber from himself, because it is an important subject and is an incredible amount of money for one person?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	I've been working past the rules of the law. I can also say that I immediately informed the Chamber by whom this position would be filled. I just didn't mention the corresponding fee for Boer & Croon at the time. I would also like to say that the auditor who audited the 2013 annual accounts of the National Police has explicitly examined whether it meets the requirements of the WNT. It has therefore also checked the completeness and accuracy of the WNT police accountability for 2013. Its audit declaration shows that the WNT, the policy rules and the WNT control protocol have been applied. That's what I'd like to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	So the minister knew this was a potential time bomb. He did mention the name, but not the corresponding extremely high fees. Would the Minister at a next consultant with about these rates tell the Chamber by itself who it is and also what the associated rates are? He hangs up: it was so necessary, I needed this man. He would have been able to convince either the cabinet or the chamber. Would the Minister do exactly the same next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	I would also like to say that at the time this happened and the contract with Boer & Croon was concluded, the WNT had not yet entered into force. That was 2012. The National Police weren't there either. They both entered on 1 January 2013. We rulers act as they should, within the rules of the game. In doing so, let us be advised by the experts in this field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-24-tweedekamer-5.u15	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber. That is the end of oral Question Time.
