ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u1	A response to the amendments tabled has been received. We need the government's first term. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today is the day of human rights. 10 December is the date on which the United Nations adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948. Today, therefore, it is a beautiful and symbolic day to talk about the approval by our Kingdom of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in New York and its implementation. I thank Members for their input and for the questions they have asked. If it is right, they have received written answers from me to many questions. In my term, therefore, I will address a number of key points from the contributions of Members. I will do so on the basis of a number of themes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u3	Before you can do that, Mrs Keijzer may say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u4	The Secretary of State got here so fast that I didn't even realize he'd already started. I would like to make a point of order first. We have received written answers to first-term questions. May I assume that these answers are part of the legal process?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u5	In my view, that is by definition the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u6	This is not necessarily the case unless these answers are established as such and get the number associated with it. By the way, I'm assuming that's what I'm assuming. I think it is important to mention that some of my questions are not properly represented. The answer to these questions is another question. I will try to clarify this in my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u7	I am now also entering this debate. I understand that these answers have been assigned a number. That is why your first request has been met. If there are any questions that have earned a different type of answer than the answer that has been given, then there is plenty of room to go into them during an interruption or in the second term. I have also understood that one specific amendment has not been dealt with in writing, but may still be discussed. After these preliminary remarks, I shall once again give the floor to the Secretary of State for his speech in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. I would like to address a number of issues in a general sense. Sometimes I will refer to the answers to the questions that have been asked. We are dealing with the following issues: who are we doing this for, how are we going to proceed with the implementation? I shall then perhaps briefly go into the interpretative explanation and the handling of the optional protocol. Finally, I would like to respond to the amendments that have been tabled, in so far as this has not yet been done in writing. Many members have already mentioned it: today is an important day for the 2 million people with disabilities in the Netherlands. We are dealing with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is a treaty that makes rights specific for this group. This treatment is an important step in the process of ratifying this Convention. I therefore see this as an historic moment. In addition, the cabinet implements the agreements made in the coalition agreement. I believe that all the Members of this Chamber have been involved in the process of ratification, but also in its long history. I think it is good to thank all Members of Parliament for the commitment they have made in the past on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mrs. Agema wants to testify to that involvement right away. She's already at the Interrupt Microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u10	Of course, ratification was already in the coalition agreement. Why has the Secretary of State decided to raise it now, after three years, and not before all the laws we've dealt with in this house over the past year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u11	The ratification process has been discussed. I'm saying it a little too simple now, but some countries ratify very quickly to see what it's all going to mean later. We have looked intensively at the consequences for laws and regulations, including the laws we have dealt with in this Chamber. The explanatory memorandum also states that all the laws dealt with by this Chamber in the context of reform have been reviewed under this Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u12	So first, all the laws have been dealt with here, which have closed the nursing homes, 90% of the daily spending has disappeared, and the domestic aid has been halved, and only then will the ratification come. If the Secretary of State had raised the question of ratification three years ago, he would not have closed the nursing homes and abolished 90% of daily spending. None of that would have been legally possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u13	The Court can assume that the drafting of new laws has also looked at legislation that has been enacted. This will also continue to play a role in the review by the Council of State. Moreover, Mrs Agema must be very happy that the subsequent review shows that the laws comply with the Treaty. In that sense, we can be satisfied both at the front and at the back. I have just mentioned a number of Members of Parliament who have made a particular effort in the past to ratify this Convention. I would particularly like to mention Mr Otwin van Dijk. I found his contribution special in that sense, because I know that he has been fighting for years. I commend his determination. Sometimes it's personal politics and sometimes politics is personal. I appreciate expressing that in this place, too. In September, I met a group of young people who want to work to improve the position of people with disabilities. They call themselves We stand up! Mr Van Gerven also referred to this. They expressed their wish briefly and forcefully, namely to live their lives as they wish. That is exactly what the treaty we are discussing today is about. We are indeed doing this for Amber, who wants to live in a society that gives her the confidence to organise her life as well as possible with as much self-direction as possible. We are doing it for Jiska, who wants to be of added value to society and who wants to have space to study and form a family, like everyone else, like all those people with visible and invisible limitations, who literally and figuratively go up against thresholds, whether that is the mother Véronique Hooglugt, who has made her intensive child an ambassador for intensive child care, or indeed the search of Jens' mother for a child with opportunities, who describes in an impressive way what people with disabilities run into children in this case. Mr Van Gerven has given me the manifesto We stand up! (Parliament agreed to the I thank him for that. However, I would like to point out to him that I already had it. I've got us up! discussed cooperation, in particular in the implementation of the Convention. I've agreed with them that we're getting up! will continue to be involved in the further development of the Platform inclusion. I think it is very important that people who are directly involved in the implementation of the UN Convention can draw this literally and figuratively from practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u14	The Secretary of State says he respects Mr Van Dijk's struggle and Mr Van Dijk's many organizations and people who work. I also conclude that the Secretary of State has the same commitment. When I read the answers to a number of questions, I was a little shocked. An important element in our speech was that we lack ambition in the plans. The answers on, for example, an approach plan state that the Secretary of State intends to reach concrete agreements. To my question what we can learn from abroad, the Secretary of State replies that he will look at it. On the question of whether it is already known how many municipalities have a local inclusion agenda, the Secretary of State says that this is not known to him. The story, the argument, of the Secretary of State and the concrete ambition, with all due respect, I miss the answer to the questions. Does the Secretary of State actually have ambition now? It's been ten years. There's been plenty of time to make it work. I'd like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u15	I'll give my word to the Secretary of State. I understand that his speech has just begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u16	I do not rule out coming back to this point. One of the topics was the implementation and the plan of action. I will come back to that in detail. I also very much appreciate the fact that Mrs Bergkamp thinks that I have been here for ten years. That's nice. Indeed, from the moment I am Secretary of State, I am trying to give the best possible substance to the ratification of the Treaty and to work with ambition on its further implementation. I hope to be able to convince the Chamber in the course of my speech that I have that ambition. I would also like to fill that out with all those involved. I shall come back to that in detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u17	It is fine that the Secretary of State will come back to the implementation and implementation. I do have a bit of a question of conscience to ask him, namely whether he does not think it is a bit lean as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u18	I shall come back to this at length, so Mrs Bergkamp can test with me whether that is skinny or not. One important point of implementation and the implementation plan is that it is not so much about what ambition we all have, because I think we all have that ambition. At least I want to say that I have it myself. I would like to come to a process that takes place as far as possible from the bottom up with the most involved. This means that I would also like to have very close consultation with all interested parties in the development of the plan of action. It is not just about developing, but also about commitment to further implementation. I think we have found a method, it is still a search, I will deal with it later, which will lead us to create an ambitious plan with ambitious objectives that we are pursuing, with as many parties involved and committed as possible to actually implement that plan. I want to make sure that it is not a Hague plan, but a plan of, for and through society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u19	The Secretary of State mentioned the group of young adults with disabilities We stand up! I understand he's spoken to it or had contact with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u20	Theorem 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u21	Number eight is definitely coming. Wait a minute. We're getting up! said it should not be about us, but with us. Indeed, I come to the twelve theories they have mentioned. The question is whether the Secretary of State wishes to deal with this now. I am indeed asking him to go into position 8. He has already heard it, but I will repeat it once more: we should not pay more for our health as a result of our disability than someone without disabilities. Does the Secretary of State endorse that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u22	I have in my conversations with the people of We stand up! these theories were discussed extensively. Mr Van Gerven has also been able to see what I think. However, we have agreed in the Netherlands which system of financing, financing and insurance we have and which system of own contributions and own risk is included. That goes for everyone. In addition, we examine whether the care remains accessible. I believe that Mrs Bergkamp also made a number of comments on this in her first term. We are trying to have as fair a care as possible for everyone who is accessible. We have also made agreements here and there, including here in this house, about the extent to which our own risks or own contributions are required. In addition, there are always safety nets. There are measures for cases where, for whatever reason, people cannot pay or are at risk of falling between shore and ship, sometimes locally and sometimes at national level. I have said to them that I understand their wish, but that it is also something we arrange for every Dutchman, where we make no distinction and that there are provisions for people who are in danger of getting into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u23	The problem is that one's own contributions and one's own risk fall down on people with disabilities and not on people without disabilities, healthy people. They often do not suffer from these own contributions and that own risk. The Secretary of State states in his reply that, for example, we have the special assistance for this as an instrument that municipalities can use. But this special assistance is often very bureaucratic in the first place. Secondly, this assistance is accompanied by very high administrative burdens. Thirdly, special assistance is often very humiliating for people who need to use it. Fourthly, only a limited part of society is eligible, namely those with low incomes. There are many people with disabilities who have little income, but not all people with disabilities do. Proposition 8 is therefore: do not let us pay for the fact that we have a permanent restriction. If you agree with that statement, should it not lead to an adjustment of the policy on its own contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u24	In my opinion, there can always be reason to consider the level of own contribution or the level of own risk. As Mr Van Gerven knows, we have had a number of debates on this in the Chamber. A number of agreements are also under way to further consider these contributions. We have a general policy on access to care and we are trying to make specific arrangements for the bottlenecks. I refer to the rent allowance, the care allowance, the special assistance and all kinds of other services. However, I do not think it is right to make another exception for a particular target group. In my view, therefore, we should continue to debate the affordability of care. We must also, of course, talk about whether our own contributions and our own risk are too high and whether the system is not too tight. We'll keep doing that on a regular basis. However, I would point out that there are provisions for people who can fall between shore and ship or get into trouble. Such facilities shall ensure that the accessibility of the care is not compromised. I would therefore not like to make general exceptions for specific target groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u25	I would suggest that, before all the spokesmen walk to the interrupting microphone and ask new factual questions about the 30 pages of answers that I believe they received around 12 noon today, the Secretary of State may begin his reply. He's only just started. I would ask him to move forward with that. I would ask the Members of Parliament to give the Secretary of State an opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u26	Mr. Chairman. I come to the question "what do we do it for"? With the ratification of the Treaty, we commit ourselves to working towards an inclusive society, a society in which everyone can participate on an equal footing. It is about opening up and changing society in all areas, which hinders the participation of people with disabilities as little as possible, in order to contribute to society. The Treaty contains a number of important general principles. They are principles which, in my view, should be taken for granted in a society such as ours. These include non-discrimination, participation, equal opportunities, accessibility, respect for inherent dignity and personal autonomy. In short, the aim of the Treaty is to strengthen both the legal position and the social position of people with disabilities. Mr Van Dijk summarized this by saying: accessibility must be normal, not an exception. That is exactly what the UN Convention deals with. Where are we now? In the Netherlands, the reform of long-term care and support is under way together. These include appropriate care and support, close to people, and more opportunities for self-direction as starting points for this policy. I believe that the ratification of the Convention, and its implementation in practice, can make an important contribution to that objective of inclusive society. In the case of decentralisation, too, or perhaps we should say that it is precisely those decentralisations in the field of support, participation and youth that are about strengthening one's own strength and network, so that people can direct their own lives more. This also implies a more inclusive and accessible society, to which this Treaty can also give an impetus. In this sense, the Treaty also provides an overarching framework for further decentralisation. In order to ratify the Convention, two legislative proposals are needed, as Members have seen. I am referring to the state law approving the Convention and the law implementing the Convention. The Convention is approved for the whole of the Kingdom. A number of questions have also been asked. I am aware that the position of people with disabilities in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands is lagging behind the European part. I have recently been on the islands myself, in particular, to speak to the people on this point, and to see for myself how we can ensure that we also apply this treaty, and the laws and regulations that result from it, to the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. In my view, there are two issues involved here. First of all, there is a great deal of catching up to be made on the basic conditions on the islands. This also concerns the socio-economic position, the position of youth care, curative care and long-term care. Secondly, however, we must also be careful what we implement here in the Netherlands. The people of the Caribbean in the Netherlands say about this: look out and also take a bit of account of the conditions that apply here. That is why it is appropriate to identify the exact location and position of the Caribbean in this respect, and then to ensure that this law can be applied. We also want to do so as soon as possible in the Caribbean. It is my ambition to achieve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u27	I see you looking disappointed, Mr President, but this is an important point that has been raised by various groups and to which the Secretary of State is now replying. A UN treaty is a very fundamental treaty on fundamental rights, isn't it? You can't put that between hooks for a part of your country, can you? It is a fundamental statement that the rights guaranteed in it also apply to the inhabitants of the Caribbean part of our Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u28	Sure, that's why the law applies to the whole Kingdom. It is now a question of whether it is wise, if there is still a great deal of delay in this area, to distinguish between the speed of implementation and the issues involved in implementation. The Chamber has seen that the Spies Committee has made a full analysis of the state of implementation of legislation in the Caribbean. On one ground you can see that the necessary has happened and on the other you can see that there is still a great catch-up to be made. This means that the implementation strategy must be different. This is why we have said: it applies, of course, to the whole of the Kingdom, but it is good to know what the exact position of the Caribbean Netherlands is and where there are still delays, so that we can design a tailor-made implementation strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u29	It's small islands, small communities. It is not about much money and it is about fundamental rights. You must then have a plan of action and say: it is our ambition to give everyone equal treatment throughout the Kingdom as soon as possible, in everything that is the Netherlands and what we declare to us, including the Caribbean part of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u30	You almost literally express my ambition. Also in the Caribbean region of the Netherlands, where the same rights apply, implementation must be possible as soon as possible, so that these rights can also be realised. I note that the practice there is also different from that we have in the European part of the Netherlands. This means that the implementation plan and the implementation strategy will be different. However, the objectives and ambitions are exactly the same. A number of questions have been asked about the implementation of the Convention. Many have rightly said that we are not yet there with paper and legislation. It is particularly important that we get to work on this implementation. Let me be realistic: that is also a quest. I am looking for a way of shaping implementation in such a way that it is not just paper on which steps are being taken, but also real steps are being taken and a movement is being set in motion leading to the gradual achievement of those objectives. We are, of course, looking at the good examples from abroad, which must of course be adapted to the Dutch situation, initiatives and opportunities that are emerging. The realization of such an implementation is, in my opinion, not by pressing the national buttons. I have been and will continue to talk very intensively about this with all the institutions and stakeholders, including the alliance for inclusion, with whom we are holding these discussions. The art will be to make it also a process of cultural change, in addition to the implementation of innovations, measures and objectives that we all have to formulate. The constructive dialogue we have had with the field so far, which has led to the idea of implementing, is a good basis. It is really a shared ambition of the government and the social parties, such as client organisations, employers and municipalities, to move forward, to push the growing attention to inclusive society and to come up with a good agenda with steps and goals that we want to achieve in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u31	I agree with the Secretary of State that, of course, this cannot be changed at the push of a button. However, we would like to move a little. The plan of action was also intended for this purpose. If you read the concrete measures in the plan of action, you will find no concrete measures. This has also led to disappointment among patients' organisations, who have commented on this. There's no other way to do this. You can see this in plans of approach from Germany or Finland, in which very concrete agreements are made within different areas of life: sport, culture, housing, public transport. Why has the Secretary of State not chosen such a concrete plan of action and perhaps he is prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u32	In the end, I would also like to see such a concrete plan of action. What I do not want is for us to sit down with a number of people and say: what are our objectives? Of course, you can think of a little. The themes of participation will be in the fields of employment, transport, education and accessibility. So you can think of that and draw lines for that. I would find it interesting and enjoyable that would also mean more commitment if many groups in society choose such a theme and ask themselves the question: what can I do from my organisation and my responsibility to bring that theme closer? I would like it very much if employers and companies were to say 'with this accessibility of our shop or catering industry we are not going to wait for a little plan from The Hague that says that we must achieve this and that in so many years' and that they themselves are taking the lead with good examples and making a pledge, making a promise about the pace and way in which they want to achieve that objective. The same is true of municipalities, patient and client organisations and people who manage buildings. I want us to make that plan of action, indeed with concrete objectives and concrete themes, but based on a movement from the bottom up. Businesses, institutions and individuals in society themselves must support this plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u33	The Secretary of State may be talking about these pledges later. I'll save that for later, because I still don't know what those are. You notice that the people we do it for, the people with disabilities, are still disappointed with that plan of action. Again my question: why has the Secretary of State not chosen to make a plan of action like that in many countries around us? Germany, Finland, with concrete objectives and a timetable? Is he willing to choose this after all? I very much agree with him that this should be carried out in practice with more parties, but I ask him to set out concrete objectives so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u34	Actually, I agree. I think there is a difference in the way in which that plan of action is implemented. We have not chosen to do so now I exaggerate with a limited group to sit down and ask ourselves "what topics do we think are important, what objectives are we going to formulate and when should they be achieved?" to find out that there might be other ideas, that there might be other implementation strategies, and that you might be able to involve a lot more people, which could increase the chances of success of such an operation. In this sense, I would like to come up with such a plan of action, as far as I am concerned, with specific themes and objectives, also looking at and learning from experience in other countries. These plans are much more lived out, they also have much more commitment and may also be more interesting and livelier than we can possibly imagine. May I give you an example? On October 5th I received a so-called social business case that was developed from the program From autism. People with autism and parents of autistic children have come up with their own ideas: how can we ensure that the thresholds for people with autism are lowered? This has led to a life-wide approach. I think that's really nice to see. This approach will enable us to work with organisations in order to take these steps. I like that, because then it's not just paper. Moreover, we do it with the target group itself. We set out a fine objective, stand behind it and seek coalitions in which many more people are involved in order to achieve it. However, I do recognise that if you say to patients' organisations 'we are going to do this', you may also have the discussion that this must lead to something, that it should not just be a process. I am convinced that this method will bring us to the desired point, namely themes, concrete steps and objectives to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u35	With all due respect, of course, that should have happened a long time ago. We have a debate here on ratification and on a plan that still needs to be drawn up. We're getting a trial plan. I understand that this Secretary of State has been very busy with the decentralisations, but I do see a contradiction. On ratification, the Secretary of State says: with the parties, not from above and with experience experts so that we have something good. I have seen that the Secretary of State was in a hurry with decentralisation. Then why take so much time on this subject? Hopefully we are on the verge of ratification, and there is not even a concrete plan yet with objectives and planning!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u36	We're already working on a plan, while the law isn't through the Chamber yet. In that sense, of course, it is interesting. After ten years, we have been discussing the Convention, ratifying the Convention and reviewing legislation and regulations to see where we stand. At the same time, we are discussing with the parties how we are going to implement this treaty. If you look at the state of affairs in all the countries in which these plans exist, you will see that all the other countries in Europe are dealing with the same issues as we are. They're working on accessibility. An important question is: how do we shape this plan of approach and its inclusion? All these countries are taking the necessary steps as part of the implementation of the Convention. To be honest, I am optimistic about this: our starting conditions are much better. If we ratify a treaty, then it is not so that we sign and say: let's see what happens now. Then all the laws and regulations will be reviewed and we will see what that means and where we are at that moment. I was just pointing that out. We are now looking with the parties involved at the implementation method with which we will do this and how we can create support for it in everyone's eyes. I am very ambitious on that point. You can really be sure of that. However, I am also convinced that it should not be our plan of action but that of society. I therefore want us to make this plan of action together with society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u37	The Secretary of State says the plan of society must be. Of course, you can't argue with that. I realize that Balkenende III, Balkenende IV and Rutte I may have left this a bit. I also realize that, now that the PvdA is in the cabinet, something is happening with ratification. I just think the moment is weird. I find it strange that we are now having the debate on ratification. I've asked what we can learn from other countries. Then it's said, "I'm gonna take a look at that." It's not getting concrete. If the Secretary of State really has ambitions, which I don't see in the plans, when will that plan of action come? What's the plan? What stages are going to be followed next year in order to arrive at a plan supported by experience experts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u38	If I am not mistaken, I indicated in the written reply that we are going to set up, together with the parties in the Alliance, a quarter of an hour maker to look at the design of that platform in the short term. This quarter-timer will be instructed to examine how the prioritisation will take place within the proposed structure, what themes and objectives will be selected and what the timing will be. As I said, I want the voice of people with disabilities to be heard, whether it be the people of We rise! are or the people who were at the meeting of the Christian Union. I think society is full of ideas. I hope to be able to show you in the middle of next year which pledges are all there. It is then a matter of solemn promises from civil society organisations that say: I am going to achieve this in this timetable and I am going to involve these people. I hope that in the middle of next year we will be able to show the Chamber how the organisation works, what themes have been selected and what foundations and objectives that has led to. I still think that is a very good approach to achieving this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u39	So that's gonna be halfway through next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u40	Of course, I am also very curious about the promises that the Empire itself is going to take on, but the Secretary of State will come back to that in a moment. It is, of course, absolutely fine that there should be consultation with organisations and with all kinds of people involved. That's great, but you're gonna give me what you want, aren't you? Well, it makes sense for you to tell me what your stakes are when you engage in those conversations. Why does the Cabinet seem reluctant to do that? That would be so transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u41	For the simple reason: not without us. I think it is incredibly important to involve people with experience in developing the implementation, in selecting the themes and in setting the pace at which this takes place and in the organisations through which it is done. I think that is a good way to actually implement that plan. It is perhaps too often that we say here in The Hague that we are going to realize something, that we are going to come up with a plan, that we are going to ask the organisations concerned whether they like it and that we are going to have a discussion about what should and should not happen. On the contrary, I find it challenging to have, from a common goal, which is to bring the inclusive society, which is very much supported by this treaty, an implementation process in which we involve everyone and encourage and excite people to achieve that implementation. I like that and I think that ultimately leads to a better result, because it leads to more commitment and carried goals and because it is not a plan of The Hague or of the government, but of people who actually have experience and who know how to do it. For example, I also intend to do an internet consultation with many people with disabilities when selecting themes and in the search for what our implementation speed should be. In it we can ask people to indicate on all kinds of themes what they would like. I'd like that very much. For example, we can involve people with disabilities and individuals who want to do so in order to jointly select themes and make this plan. I would like that very much and I intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u42	That's all beautiful and beautiful, but the Secretary of State can indicate a dot on the horizon, can't he? He can tell us what his ambitions are, can't he? Of course, they can then be changed after all these conversations. However, I find it very strange that even the dot on the horizon is missing and that the Secretary of State is not putting it fairly on the table, including the people he says he is so eager to consult with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u43	There's no way it's in there. When you look at all the themes through the hairs of the eye, work, transport, education and accessibility are the themes that always occur. These are also included in the plans made by Finland, Sweden and other countries. In view of these issues, it is important that we take concrete steps and identify the social groups that we take into account. I think that's important. Selecting the themes isn't that complicated. To draw a line in the sense of what we want to achieve in ten years' time is not so complicated either. But what are we doing? Then we're in the middle of a paper exercise. It is important to do the development of the plan, the agreements we make about how we are going to do it and the commitment we are asking for, together with the people as much as possible. I do not think that is a question of being unfair, but a question of fair ambition to ensure that we really do so together with the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u44	I will try to be concise, Mr President. The plan of action is an important point. I agree with what Mrs Voortman says. I think you should start with a pledge, which states where you want to come out as a State and then commit other parties to you to implement it. The moment it's a little more voluntary with the pledges, it's complicated to take steps. Let me put the question as follows. How does the Secretary of State intend to steer towards concrete objectives if we have not formulated these objectives in our pledge? By "our pledge," I mean the pledge of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u45	It is indeed a good thing to stress that the various levels of government, municipalities and the Empire, too, have a responsibility in implementing the Treaty. On the basis of the Convention, the State must submit a report to the UN Committee every four years two years after ratification. As a result of this responsibility, agreements are made with the parties, including with the municipalities. This means that both the government and the municipal government should set an example. I come to talk about what it is doing to bring the inclusive society closer. These include living, working, support, public transport, municipal infrastructure and education. It is also about the Wmo 2015, in which we have given the municipalities more responsibility and in which the municipalities together with local target groups will set those targets. I would point out that there are a number of issues relating to awareness; we have talked about the campaign. It is about access to information and buildings. The accessibility of the public buildings is regulated by the 2012 Building Decision. The amendment of the Building Decision increased the accessibility sector of these buildings from 40% to 80%. That's how I got a few things straightened out. Of course, the government itself has its own objectives and needs to make its own pledges about how this is going, together with Rijk and municipalities, also with regard to information provided by public authorities via the Internet and which should be accessible. So, yes, these pledges also apply to the government. It is a bit of a long answer, Mr President, but that is to say that as a government we do have an executive responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u46	I'm still learning about you both, but I'm going to keep a closer eye on those long answers and the long interruptions. You're gonna see that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u47	Welcome to this committee, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u48	I was warned about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u49	However, I am pleased with this long answer, because I feel that we are getting somewhere now. The Secretary of State now mentions concrete issues that are being addressed, partly by the authorities, central and decentralised, and partly by parties other than the government. Can I therefore summarize the fact that the Secretary of State also believes that there should be a further development of this plan of approach, whereby these kinds of themes, with objectives, parties, approach and so on, are pressed into a timetable so that we can get somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u50	I think Mr Van Dijk can interpret this in this way. It is along this path that we shall reach the specific themes and objectives he also intends to pursue, and the timetables for achieving them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u51	The Secretary of State continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u52	I'm skipping a few pieces, considering the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u53	That's okay at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u54	That's what I thought. Then we come to the optional protocol, a difficult subject. The optional protocol allows individual stakeholders, after the national remedies have been exhausted, to submit petitions to parties to the Convention Protocol on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which monitors compliance with the Convention. A number of motions have been passed on this issue. As is well known, there is a legal and inter-departmental debate on how to deal with the three complaint legal protocols that are now in place in the UN Human Rights Conventions. They shall be considered in conjunction with each other. The implementation of ratification is complex, because you want to understand what it means for legal certainty and the legal form of our laws, such as the right to complain. There is little experience of socio-economic rights at international level. The cabinet wants to examine these optional protocols in conjunction and therefore not take a separate decision on this protocol. Hopefully next year the cabinet will be able to make a proposal, so that these optional protocols can be decided in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u55	I have a question about the optional protocol. The treaty is from 2006, so almost ten years old. Such an optional protocol is necessary to ensure the legal status of people. Otherwise, they will not be able to protest fully, if I understand correctly. Can the Secretary of State undertake to sign that optional protocol soon, for example in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u56	I still have to get used to the idea that you will find 2016 soon. The answer is no. It has nothing to do with the legal status of people who are faced with laws and regulations or decisions which they do not agree with, because there is simply a Dutch course of law. It is linked to the laws and regulations covered by this Convention, but also to other international conventions and to the College of Human Rights in the Netherlands. The optional protocol would provide for recourse to the UN Committee in addition to the legal process under these rules and in addition to the appeal to the Human Rights College. I think it is right that we should look at the consequences of this together and what that means for the case law in the Netherlands. I think it is wise for the cabinet to want to do this in conjunction. Therefore, I am not going to make any statements today about when the cabinet will put forward a coherent proposal for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u57	We can therefore see that an appeal to that committee is not possible, as the Secretary of State replied. That does mean a restriction on the course of justice. I don't think that's desirable. The ratification of that treaty has been there for years, so I do not see why we cannot sign it. It has already been signed by a lot of countries, as the Secretary of State has indicated. It means strengthening the position of people with disabilities if they do not agree with a particular decision or course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u58	I do not agree with that view. There is a normal course of justice that is open to all laws and regulations in the Netherlands. There is also a specific position for the College of Human Rights in the Netherlands. The optional protocol would also allow you to go to the UN Committee. On the basis of case law, you should consider what this adds to the Dutch possibilities and what it means for the administrative burden and for the different laws. I think it is wise to look at this in conjunction, but that does not mean that the legal position of individual citizens in the Netherlands is in any way affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u59	Extensive research has already been done on the feasibility of the optional protocols by the University of Utrecht, if I do have them. That research is at least a year old. So the consequences of this have long been on the table. What else does the cabinet need to make a decision on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u60	In order to be able to make a good assessment of what it means for the course of justice and for the further case-law, and whether the structure of the law is sufficient for that purpose, it is good to do so in conjunction. We have little experience of socio-economic legislation and of applying optional protocols in it. The Foreign Affairs and Security and Justice colleagues are now analysing this. I think it is wise that they should then make a coherent proposal to the Chamber so that we do not have to look at what we are going to do by treaty, but can do this in conjunction. On this point, the cabinet has taken this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u61	That investigation's been there a long time. We knew this legal treatment was coming. I thought a decision could have been made long before then. What are the concrete obstacles now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u62	That's a little beyond my competence. As I said, my colleagues in the Foreign Affairs and Security and Justice Department are working on these analyses. I will inform them that the Chamber is very interested in the results. I assume that in the various debates with them the Chamber will also indicate that it remains very interested in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u63	When can the Chamber see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u64	I'm afraid to rule on that. After all, I am going to deal with the timetables that are not determined by me, but by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u65	I read in the report that this Secretary of State is a coordinating executive. Can I then ask the coordinating director when the Chamber will receive information on the analyses that are apparently all being made now about whether or not to sign the optional protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u66	You can ask me this when it comes to the optional protocol on this treaty. I mentioned that there are some optional protocols. The cabinet has said that it would like to deal with them in conjunction. So I will also have to convey that message to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u67	Then I have one small comment. The advantage of a coordinating executive is that he is not only about his own department, but about several. To be honest, I do not understand the answer that the Secretary of State cannot check on the other optional protocols. My question is quite simple: can the Secretary of State check when that is ready and inform the Chamber about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u68	The co-ordination of the optional protocols, which concern several policy areas and have nothing to do with this Convention, as these are optional protocols to other legislation, which lie with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in consultation and in agreement with the Ministry of Security and Justice. So that really seems like a question that belongs there. Then I come to some of the comments that have been made in addition to the explanations given to the Chamber in the written response to the interpretative statements. Almost all Members have asked a question on this important subject. It is wise to make a sharp distinction and continue to make between reservations and interpretative explanations. With reservations, the legal binding of the Convention would be restricted. A declaration shall not restrict the obligations of the Contracting Parties to the Convention. The government only wants to make interpretative statements and not make reservations. The Treaty is therefore respected and followed. The declarations are intended to clarify how the Convention is interpreted by the Kingdom. With the clarification, there is no conflict between the Treaty provisions and national legislation in practice and the treaty provision or parts thereof is not waived. The Kingdom made declarations at the time of signature only. These statements will be repeated at the time of ratification, with the addition of a few others. Other parties may respond to this. To date, however, no signals have been given by the contracting parties that this would be the case. I have tried to explain in detail in my written reply the reasons for these interpretative explanations by article. Finally, I come to some of the amendments that have not yet been assessed. These are two new amendments and an amendment which has also been the subject of much debate in this Chamber, the amendment on item No. 17 by Mr Van Dijk. I will answer that because it is at the heart of the discussion. First of all, the amendment on item No. Mr Keijzer and Mr Dik-Faber. It proposes to add an "Article 01" to "Every human being must be able to be autonomous in line with his own capabilities." I understand this as a kind of preamble, in which it is stated that every human being, regardless of his limitations, may be there and belong to it. This is also contained in the explanatory memorandum. Of the people who make legal analyses, I have heard different judgments about whether this type of preamble belongs in a law or not, that will be understood. If I am asked for my opinion, I think it is a good thing in itself that we should make this statement. I should therefore like to leave the opinion to the Chamber. Now for the amendment to item No. 24 members Van Gerven and Kooiman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u69	That amendment has lapsed. It has been amended in the amendment to item No. 26. I say the same for our own administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u70	That amendment is in itself a creative piece of legislative work, and I give it to Mr Van Gerven. However, in its view, this amendment is aimed at instructing the government to submit a legislative proposal which completely reverses the choices made by very recently adopted laws. Once again, it is not lacking in any legal creativity, but I believe that this is very much beyond the scope of this legislative proposal. I am not sure whether, in such a case, we can speak of a destructive amendment, although Mr Van Gerven probably never meant it to be. I would point out that the Youth Act and the Wmo have been adopted very recently by the legislator. In the opinion of the government and the Chamber, there were very good arguments for this at the time. I would now refer to the explanations of the legislative proposals to decentralise youth aid, the WMO and the parts of the former AWBZ care included in them. We see no reason to return to those recently made choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u71	This is not a destructive amendment, it is a constructive one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u72	Oh, you're rebuilding everything?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u73	Sure, because there's a lot that needs fixing. So this is, let me put it this way, a'reparative amendment'. It may well be, I ask the Secretary of State, that something has ever been done, or perhaps recently, that people later think: that was not really so good. So, we're gonna fix that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u74	If you call that a "reparative amendment"... If I would take my bike to the bike maker and tell that bike maker that he would do this as a repairing amendment to my bike, then I'm not sure I'd be able to cycle after that. But all madness on a stick: we want to discourage this amendment. I have one more comment to make on my written reply to a question from the PVV Group on the admission of assistance dogs in taxis. There is also an amendment to that effect. In my written reply, I indicated that the objective is to regulate this subject in the passenger transport decision as of 1 January 2016. After consultation with I and M, this needs some clarification. The decision is currently the subject of inter-departmental consultations. It will have to take account of the consequences of the possible adoption of the amendment in respect of item No. 20, so what kind of meaning that would have. This amendment regulates part of the same thing, albeit by another means. If necessary, the Secretary of State for I and M will inform the Chamber further. I come to the amended amendment to item No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u75	Now that you are going back to the Amendment No. 17, I would like to make it clear that the amendment to item No. 24 with a slight change to the amendment to item No. 26 years old. I ask Mr Van Gerven to explain this change, but I see that he does not need it. We are therefore satisfied with the written reply of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u76	I believe that the amendment to item No. 17 last night to the most discussed topic of this legal treatment. This amendment extends the legislative proposal to include a new provision, the meaning of which was not clear to everyone in advance, so I understand at least those Members who have asked questions about it. Let me make an attempt on the part of the government to shed some light on the significance of this amendment. On that basis, perhaps one will understand that I am not quite finished with my interpretation. The amended amendment states that the person to whom the ban is addressed will also ensure general accessibility for persons with disabilities or chronic illness, unless this is a disproportionate burden on him. Maybe that's how this can be interpreted. The aim of the amendment is to strengthen the link between two principles, namely on-demand adaptation and general accessibility. Maybe even a bridge will be built. In addition to on-demand adaptation, there is therefore a responsibility to achieve general accessibility, without being asked to do so. The concept of "accessibility" is very well understood. Several members have pointed out that a general obligation to make provisions may raise questions about legal certainty. What kind of general facilities are we talking about? Are they sufficient for the target groups we are talking about? The government finds it difficult and is not in favour of this approach if that were the case. In this sense, we spoke yesterday about an amendment that was coloured in the debate. I believe that Mrs Bergkamp referred to it as an amendment which seeks to take the greatest possible account of accessibility in advance. The explanatory statement to the amendment states what the scope should be. In the debate, it was made clear once again. The word "also take care of" has been deliberately chosen. This calls for a firm effort. Ensuring this does not mean a pre-established duty, but rather a responsibility for accessibility. The amendment refers to general accessibility. This is in itself in line with the intended social standard. It is not about laying down general provisions. Moreover, the explanatory statement and the debate indicated that these were simple measures which should not constitute a disproportionate burden. I believe that Mrs Bergkamp has also raised this in the debate. The explanatory memorandum states that this is a phased realization. An AMvB has also been provided for which further rules can be laid down. That gives the ability to speed up where necessary, to focus where it is desired and to control where it is necessary, when interpretations become too broad. I think this is an important element. I understand from the authors that the amendment seeks to align them with the main objective of the law, namely the pursuit of an inclusive society. This is achieved by adapting on demand and by creating accessibility in general. As far as the other amendment is concerned, the government is not sure what consequences this has and what this means for case law and for reasonableness. What general provisions apply? The amendment was tabled yesterday and the various authors explained yesterday. Several members of the Chamber have also explained this. It is a rather fundamental amendment, which colors the law, and I therefore consider it appropriate to discuss it in order with colleagues in the cabinet. The discussion in this Chamber takes place for the benefit of everyone's position. I am trying to let my light shine over it to find out if I can properly identify the coloring of the amendment. I therefore propose that next week, before the vote, the Chamber should send a letter expressing the opinion of the cabinet on this amendment. Again, it is an important amendment. I have examined in my speech whether I understand the interpretation of the authors so that I can take them into account in the discussions I will be holding in the Cabinet on this amendment. I shall then forward to the Chamber the explanation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u77	Mrs Agema, I think it would be logical to ask for the opinion of the authors first, but do you still have a factual question about the way things are going?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yes. I am a little surprised, because I think the colour of the Secretary of State is diametrically opposed to the colour of the authors yesterday. When we put this into practice, the author indicated that, for example, it was the intention of the amendment that entrepreneurs should make their websites accessible. That's a completely different coloring from the Secretary of State's.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u79	Why don't we see what the proposers say first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u80	I'm confused now, and I don't know what to do anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u81	Normally, clarification should be provided by the applicants after the Secretary of State makes such a proposal. Can I give one of the proposers the floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u82	Yesterday we discussed this important and fundamental amendment in depth. The Secretary of State is right to say that. I had an exchange of views with colleagues and a number of colleagues asked further questions about it. The aim of this amendment is indeed to achieve general accessibility. However, that is not possible from today to tomorrow. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. That shouldn't be unreasonable. That may be basic and simple, because individual adjustments are always needed for people in concrete, specific situations. However, it is the aim that we are working towards a generally accessible society. Mrs Bergkamp has asked me this once again, and I said yes to that question. If I hear the Secretary of State say this and nod at the interpretation I am giving it now, then I think we are broadly in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u83	You can hear him nodding. That's a little hard to record in the Acts. But I'm assuming you're coming up with what the Secretary of State is proposing. Anything else you'd like to say? You, Mrs. Van Ark? Oh, you're not a petitioner. Do you have a factual question as a result of this? I shall now turn to Mrs Van Ark and then to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u84	Mrs. Agema was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u85	I had just given Mrs Agema the opportunity, but that was about the website.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u86	That was a one-time thing, Mr. Chairman. And we are in a debate today with the Secretary of State and not among ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u87	Sure. If you wish to make use of the second part of your interruption, you will now have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u88	Please. Well, I guess I'll just ask the Secretary of State. The coloring of the petitioner is concrete that companies even have to modify their websites. That was the coloring of the proposers. Does the Secretary of State take that into account in his judgment? And how does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u89	Yesterday the amendment was tabled and we discussed its interpretation. In order to reach a final judgment, I tried to summarize it again and to indicate what the interpretation in my eyes was. That is important, because I think it would be good if I spoke to my colleagues in the cabinet about it. I have just recalled it and I have deliberately chosen the terms "care" and "strong effort." An amendment on general accessibility must be in line with the social standard; I do not want general provisions, no disproportionate burden, simple measures, a phased implementation and finally an AMvB with which you can gas and brake. I'm putting it way too short right now. I'm trying to find out if the proposers will give this interpretation to it. That would be a fact for me to discuss it in the Cabinet and to inform the Chamber before the votes on the interpretation of this amendment, if the Chamber so wishes. But perhaps the Chamber would like a different procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u90	I have wronged Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Voortman not to mention them, and I have restored this. At the moment, I don't see any of the proposers standing by the microphone. That is why I shall first give the floor to Mrs Van Ark for factual questions on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u91	I hear the Secretary of State say that he would also like to discuss a number of matters in the Cabinet, given that the amendment was discussed yesterday. I can imagine. At the same time, I think that in their second term many Members of Parliament consider the weighting of the cabinet to be important. Let me put it this way: what I am going to say in my second term is indeed the case. It seems to me to be careful to give this opportunity, both to the proposers and to the cabinet. I therefore propose that after the first deadline we suspend the written reply in the second term of the Chamber. I would very much like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u92	So you are putting forward a procedural proposal to suspend and allow the cabinet to return to the amendment in writing. I need to see who was first at the microphone. I think it was Mrs Keijzer and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u93	An order proposal has just been made. I think that's a good idea of order. There are perhaps people who are looking at this now and who are thinking: what is happening here; this would be voted on Tuesday and it would go into effect. I would like to say to all those people: it is not, of course, because after this this has to be dealt with in the First Chamber. To reassure those people, I think it's a good thing to say that. I think it is a very correct proposal. I've never seen it before. It also indicates how far-reaching this amendment can be. I remember Mrs Voortman giving another reading of the amendment. She said: it is a good amendment and we will look at the implications for the Building Decision, for example. That's what my question is about. In the written answers, the Secretary of State says: The Treaty does not oblige a person to make preventive adjustments, regardless of the need of a person in a specific situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u94	I'm sorry to interrupt, but an order proposal has been made. Maybe it's useful to finish that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u95	I understand what you're saying, but I already gave room for a response to the initial proposal, which is, in a sense, also an order proposal from the government, although that may be a bit unusual. Then there were factual, substantive questions, also to the proposers. Now there is an additional proposal from the VVD Group. I would ask you to include both in your reply, because then we can do it at once. It is clear which order is proposed: now a suspension and a written response on the basis of the proposal made by the government. Normally I would now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, but I also see one of the proposers at the microphone. I shall therefore first give Mrs Voortman the floor for a reply to the previous question she was asked. I'd also like to respond to the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u96	I'm very sorry, but that goes quite far in content. I'm gonna go back and find out exactly what the questions were. I'm sure I'd like to give some room for the order proposal. I think it is important that we do and vote on the second time-limit before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u97	I will try to answer the latter later, but if it is not necessary for the evaluation of the order proposal that all the questions that you have asked at the same time have been answered, then I would like to give you the opportunity to comment first on the order proposal. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij, who was the first to be on the microphone. Then we continue with Mrs Bergkamp, Mr Segers and Mr Van Gerven, in that order. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor, therefore, only for the procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u98	I agree with suspending the debate and discussing it after the cabinet letter. I think this is efficient. It is such an important part of the debate that there would be a need to discuss it, so there should be a third deadline. Then we might as well say: we save it and do the second term at a later date. I would also welcome the fact that this letter contains not only the opinion of the cabinet, but also a further explanation of what is and is not covered by the text of the article of the law as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u99	Clear. I call Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u100	I think it's a good order proposal from the VVD. I would like to make it quite clear that I think it is important that there should be an explanation in the letter. Yesterday, I gave an explanation of myself and asked the question whether it was correct. I think the Secretary of State repeats this, but I would also like to have it in black and white.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u101	Okay, so in writing. Now Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u102	I support the proposal for a good written response. It'd be nice if we could finish the treatment before Christmas. I know this is gonna be tough, but I'm gonna do this encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u103	I am not in favour of the proposal. I therefore propose to continue with the second deadline and, if necessary, reopen it in a third period. We can now discuss a number of matters in order, because we still have room for this tonight. I fully agree with those who say: we want to talk about this in relation to the letter and the explanation of the amendment. Let's do that in a shorter third term. That's my new proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u104	That is also an order proposal, and I shall then ask your colleagues for their reactions. First of all, it is the VVD's proposal for order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u105	I support Mrs Van Ark's proposal for order. I would like concrete examples to be given in the explanation. What does it mean for shopkeepers, for catering entrepreneurs, for companies with a website? I really do not know what this amendment is asking or demanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u106	Part of it was already in the answers given by the Secretary of State in relation to the amendment, for example with regard to the Environment Act, the Building Decision and the international web guidelines. If he's involved in that, I'm definitely in favour of an explanation. I also refer to what we have just exchanged in the debate. If we also involve the Acts, I think we are already a long way off in determining what it means. I'll come to the order proposal. I think it would be wise to give the cabinet the opportunity to sort this out in order. However, I would like us to hold and vote for the second term of office, because I think it is symbolically extremely important, and practical, for the House of Representatives to decide in 2015 on the ratification of this UN Convention. On the condition that we keep the second term next week, I know that the plenary agenda is quite busy and vote, I agree with the order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u107	I have taken stock of Members' reactions to the order proposal. A large majority is in favour of suspending the debate today and asking for a supplementary letter with explanations and examples from the government. After a few comments, I will come back to the question of whether this can also take place before Christmas. Mr Van Gerven, may I conclude that it is unnecessary to ask for another response to your order proposal? I can do it, but there is a large majority in favour of the proposal that has just been made. Can you accept that I leave it at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u108	I made the proposal; people have been able to take it with them. What about next week's treatment? That is important for the final decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u109	I understand that next week the committee will hold a general discussion which will be discussed in plenary. That treatment could go back to non-plenair. For example, on Thursday we can build in space for finishing the first term and a second term. I understand that sufficient time can be allowed for this, although it is not unlimited, especially on the last day before the recess. You will understand that, but when I see you like this, you will not wish for an unlimited time either. In my view, the proposal to suspend now and to keep the second deadline next week, with the conditions attached, has broad support. I would like to look at the Secretary of State, because I cannot entirely judge whether he would have liked to comment on many of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u110	I believe that I have provided all the amendments which I have been able to comment on in writing. I have also assessed the two amendments which are new. I have therefore had all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u111	Can you tell us whether the Chamber can receive the letter containing the examples and the explanation that it has just asked for in the order proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u112	Yes, I have heard and will honour the wishes of the various Members of Parliament about the interpretation and the analysis that it contains.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u113	There may still be a number of questions left from the first term. I suggest we move on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u114	I was just beginning to talk, but since there was an order proposal, I was rightly called............................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm having the whole discussion about the Building Decision. This is partly due to the amendment. The written reply, on page 26, states that if the Building Decision does not provide rules on accessibility, Article 2a, the amendment, may have consequences. I would very much like to know what the consequences are. The amendment concerns general accessibility. What is disproportionate taxation? One answers differently to the question of what an entrepreneur should bear for the public interest than the other. I'd like to hear about this. I also asked what this amendment means for websites. The answer I received related to the bill on government websites, but I want to know, of course, what it means for an ordinary entrepreneur, who has a website with, for example, the now so popular Christmas mistress. My final point concerns the question of direct discrimination in health insurance. I'm browsing again. Sorry about that! On page 23 the question of whether a distinction can be made indirectly is addressed. I don't think it's right to make a direct distinction. I've got the next case. You have a disability and you want to go on vacation to Australia. That's not in basic insurance. Then you can be provided with additional insurance. Only a health insurance company can refuse you. Is that a direct distinction, or is that an indirect distinction? For the people concerned, people with disabilities, including those with psychiatric problems, this question is of course very important. Then I think that with a reference to the judge and to the Human Rights College to check this, there is insufficient legal certainty for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u115	I'm just gonna say it for the record. In such a case, an insurer should not refuse or ask for a higher premium because of the simple fact that there is a restriction or disability. The insurer must then demonstrate, on the basis of analyses, that there are higher risks and that for this reason it is justified to ask for a different price or to pursue a different policy. It is therefore not a question of the presence of a disability or a disability, but rather of the fact that actuarial risks are actually different from those in the average situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u116	Is that also the answer to the first question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u117	I think Mrs Keijzer has asked a fair question about the Building Decision. She linked another question about the websites. I will give an explanation of the amendment and its significance for her, among other things. I therefore think it would be wise for me to include the answer to those questions in my letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u118	I have another question about the response to my amendment to item No. 13 about the polling stations. There are a number of cabinet objections to that amendment. One of the objections is that we have indicated that if the accessibility requirement cannot be met, mayor and aldermen must motivate that to the Election Council. I wonder whether this part of the objections will lapse when I make them'motivate the city council'. I have another point. The cabinet states that my amendment does not provide for necessary legislation for a new model ballot. I do not understand that, because in my explanatory statement I am referring explicitly to ballots. Can the Secretary of State explain that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u119	If the amendment states that responsibility should be given to the city council, that part of the objection would indeed lapse. The message we wanted to send is that there is already a project in progress to make it possible to vote for people with disabilities. That's the new ballot. This amendment does not take this into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u120	Perhaps we should discuss this with each other outside the Chamber, because I think that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u121	I have two more questions. First of all, I have a question about the amendment tabled by Mr Van Dijk, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Voortman. There will be a further reaction from the cabinet. Does the Secretary of State wish to include my question on the further clarification in areas other than physical accessibility? In my view, the amendment also covers education, housing, services and labour. What does the interpretation mean that it is about the basic interpretation, for those other areas? I think that is an important question. Does the Secretary of State intend to involve my question in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u122	I think that's right. That is what I will take with me in the explanation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u123	Thank you for that. There is a second issue which has been addressed in the written reply. That is the question of the right to life and its interpretation, including that separate clause. I'm talking about that interpretative explanation. I get that. Now it's been clarified. The cabinet says that it should not be interpreted as meaning that the conclusion could be drawn that, for example, our abortion legislation is contrary to that. We think differently about that, but I get it, logically and legally. Then my question remains: what does this mean for the positive obligations remaining for the protection of unborn life? Can the Treaty provide a positive impetus within the framework of the legislation we know, and is it also included in the action plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u124	I refer to the answer to other written questions. Are you giving adequate information now? This is an essential element both in one situation and in another. It's about getting everyone to make good decisions through informed consent. If I may understand your question in such a way that this is also part of it, namely that you not only respect that there is other legislation that reflects conflict of interests, but that you also ensure that you give a positive explanation, for example in the field of information, you can certainly understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u125	I have two more questions. The Blue Envelope of the Tax Administration has been abolished. I didn't get an answer to my question. My question concerned the alternative offered to people, namely that they can register for the alternative via some digital site. Is that in line with the Treaty now? I am only asking that question because I suspect that we will not have time for that next week. My final question concerns the accessibility of polling stations. I am regularly approached by people with intellectual disabilities who are very eager to vote, but cannot overlook this in the voting booth. The article that regulates this makes a distinction according to the nature of the handicap. People with physical disabilities may be helped in the voting booth, but to people with intellectual disabilities only the functioning of the ballot may be explained in the polling booth. Could a solution be that the president of the polling station, who has very far-reaching powers, should be allowed to do something in the voting booth? I was the president of a polling station myself. Often this is how it works. Someone comes in and says, "I want to vote for that candidate." They often know exactly what they want, but then you can't help someone like that. Is the president of the polling station allowed to do that? I now hear Mrs Agema say that she has been through this. So there are two experiences on this point. Mrs Bergkamp agrees, so it is true. My question is: can it be done this way? Also interesting: how do other countries do this? 'Cause this has to play everywhere. This also applies: if it cannot be answered this evening, please write.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u126	I'll start with the question about the blue envelope. What I tried to tell you in my answer is that the fact that you got something on paper and you're about to get something digital doesn't necessarily mean anything for accessibility. There is a whole programme on access to digital information. There is also a whole programme to make that information accessible to people who cannot see or have any other limitation. The simple fact that it goes from paper to digital does not in itself need to say anything about accessibility, provided, of course, that accessibility is regulated. That's what I've been trying to tell you. The transition as such does not mean anything; it is about the accessibility of the situation that arises afterwards. As far as the polling stations are concerned, Mrs Keijzer herself gave a bit of an example. She said: if Mrs Keijzer, Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Agema say it is true. That is precisely the influence we want to avoid in the voting room. According to the Tickets Act, you can do anything you want to do to the voting booth, but in the voting booth you can only provide assistance if there is a physical limitation, which makes someone physically unable to vote. Any other aid could lead to discussion of whether influence exists. The Tickets Act is pretty strict on that. This led to a number of incidents in the municipality of Rotterdam a few years ago. That's why it's pretty strictly regulated. Physical help can be given to cast the vote, but no help can be given to avoid discussions about unwanted interference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u127	I've got a piece number there. 18 tabled an amendment on this subject. I really think that what the cabinet is proposing on this point is contrary to the UN Convention. I understand what the Secretary of State says. There is fear that there may be influence in people with mental impairment or those with learning disabilities. This has been released in other countries. That's where everyone can provide support. In our amendment, we indicate that someone from the polling station can help if the person with mental impairment or mental impairment himself indicates: I want to vote, but I cannot do so in that booth. We are really talking about a significant group here. NIVEL's research shows that 7% would like to vote, but it can't. I am not talking about the people who cannot say what they want to vote at all. I'm talking about those who want to vote but need help in the voting booth. I am concerned about the possibility that someone from the polling station can provide support on request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u128	That would assume that the polling station has a certain authority or expertise to determine whether someone indeed has an intellectual disability or a mental disorder. The members of the polling bureau should decide on this and then you will have a discussion about the cases in which assistance can be provided and in which cases not. That's why the Tickets Act is pretty strict about this. The law does not allow for an assessment which person should be helped and which not. The polling bureau shall not be empowered or authorised to assess that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u129	This is quite paternalistic, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u130	Or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u131	Someone's not crazy, but they need backup in the voting booth. He or she can say he wants to vote. There is an intellectual disability or mental disorder and the person in question wants to vote. I find it odd that someone with a physical disability can get support in the voting booth and that there will be no influence. Isn't that the prejudice we have about people with intellectual disabilities or mental impairment, that they are very easy to influence? I'm sure a lot of people without restrictions are very easy to influence, and they can be helped in a voting booth. I ask the Secretary of State how, for example, it is arranged abroad. I believe that we are much stricter on this point than other countries. Can the Secretary of State state state what it's like abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u132	I'm not ready for that right now. I point out the philosophy behind our Election Act. I don't think there's any difference. The president and members of the polling office are not supposed to assess who needs help due to mental illness or mental impairment and who cannot be helped. How would you make that distinction? You can't see that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u133	The distinction is that someone states that themselves and says: I have a problem with it because I have a limitation, but I do want to vote. The Secretary of State doesn't have a clear idea of what it's like to be abroad. Maybe he can put that on paper before we talk about this. Perhaps that could help other Members of Parliament to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u134	I'd like to do that. Perhaps that could help Members of Parliament not to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u135	You will be given an explanation, but to ask that this may help your amendment to support you may go a little far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u136	Let us take a number of countries from which the Netherlands likes to be compared. May I make that suggestion? Otherwise, the Secretary of State may be right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u137	That must be prevented. That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u138	The question to the Secretary of State is whether he wants to be honest in the choice of countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u139	I shall come back to the letter we are still receiving from the cabinet on the Van Dijk and others amendment. I have heard a lot of things come across, but I would like to go back to the text of the amendment, which is to ensure general accessibility. I have heard the Secretary of State and colleagues say a lot of things about this. Among other things, it was about a firm effort. In the first term, I asked Mr Van Dijk whether this was an ambition or an obligation. That question is crucial and I would like to pass it on to the Secretary of State. In the meantime, I understand that there are also 'targeting' legal consequences. Will the Secretary of State address these questions and will he also give a weighting of the amendment? That is what the discussion has begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u140	I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u141	Maybe one last addition. One of the documents we received from the law, the more detailed report or the explanatory statement, contained a contribution from Actal, who, in the government's proposal on individual provisions, found that there were virtually no consequences in terms of regulatory pressure and financial consequences and, if any, that they would be included in the programme after two years of regulatory pressure. Can that passage in the explanatory statement or in the further report also be included in the weighting of this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u142	Yes, as far as that relates to this amendment. As Mrs Van Ark knows, there has been a general investigation into how costs can be defined, with all the other things being done. It was concluded that, in view of the gradual, phased effect, such differentiation cannot be explained in advance. However, it is possible to look afterwards at what this has meant. The government expects this to apply mutatis mutandis to this amendment. It might be good to take that weighing with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u143	Part of the written response is the public campaign. The Secretary of State has not yet said anything about this in the first term, except that it will be announced. I read in the written reply that this will be part of a broad campaign. Now that doesn't necessarily have to be bad, but it shouldn't be snowed under in a wider campaign. I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State on this point of his view that this important treaty, which we noted yesterday, is so incredibly important, awareness-raising and awareness-raising, deserves an independent campaign, at least a campaign that is not a paragraph of another campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u144	Let me promise I'll look into it. It must not be snowed under, and if it is necessary to do it separately for that reason, we must do it. I will check with my Home Affairs colleague whether there is indeed such scope and possibilities that this campaign really focuses on that inclusive society, in line with the objectives of the Treaty and ratification. If it's necessary to do it separately, we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u145	I welcome that commitment. I would ask the Secretary of State to include experience abroad. In the United Kingdom or in Belgium...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u146	Say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u147	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u148	I do not see why this is so funny in English, but that will undoubtedly be cut cake for all of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u149	Yes chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u150	That is always good to hear for a foreign spokesperson, as chairman today. I can use that to make a small yes. All the questions have been answered and the amendments have been commented on. That means I'm suspending the debate for now. I have already indicated that we will set it up for next Thursday. There's time for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u151	I would like to make an order proposal to my colleagues in the healthcare sector to turn the debate on TSN into a general discussion. Then we have room on the plenary agenda for this bill next Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-10-tweedekamer-10.u152	I already promised it. I have also said that the debate that was scheduled for plenary is becoming an AO again. We'll give you the credit! The debate has been suspended and I can also note that the sitting is closed for today. I've always wanted to do that. That's fantastic.
