ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last week came through council member.Now the message came out that many council members feel threatened or intimidated. Over 30% have experienced verbal aggression or intimidation. In one fifth of them, this has led them to adjust their functioning or voting behaviour. Unfortunately, this is not the first signal that democracy is under pressure. At the beginning of May there were alarming reports that criminals in one in five municipalities are undermining authority. In the same month, a mayor, out of fear anonymously, described how criminals infiltrate public administration and undermine the rule of law. That is what it comes down to in the end. If people's representatives and directors can no longer act freely to their consciences, then we will lose our democracy and our rule of law. We must never let that happen. The government, and the Minister of the Interior in particular, is responsible for the integrity of the internal administration. I expect him to play a leading role in identifying and resolving this problem. That is why I have three very simple questions for the Minister: does he recognize the picture? How is the Minister going to ensure that next year no councilman feels intimidated or suffers from aggression? How does the Minister ensure that next year no council member feels compelled to change his voting behaviour as a result of intimidation or aggression?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Koşer Kaya has operated longer than I have in the local administration and therefore knows, however regrettable that it is also true that there is a certain amount of regularity in the case of aldermen or city council members. As much as this is part of the practice that a daily driver encounters, it remains unacceptable. So we, as a society, also show this in a number of ways. It has been for a long time that the Public Prosecutor's Office has applied a clearly more severe penalty when there is a threat or intimidation of people with a public function. That's right. When it comes specifically to the council members, the investigation referred to by Mrs Koşer Kaya concerns the members of the council, and from the Ministry of the Interior, we also fully support the mayors responsible for that local security. For example, special trainings are given to mayors about how they can deal with aggression and threat. In the short term, there is also another consultation with the Dutch Society of Mayors on this matter. Mrs Koşer Kaya's first question was whether I recognized the image. I recognize the statue. That is a reason for the Ministry of the Interior, but in fact for everyone with a warm heart for public administration and democracy to act against. Mrs Koşer Kaya also asked if I can guarantee that no council member will be intimidated in the coming year. I'd love to, but that wouldn't be fair. Due to the emotions, which are often understandable but never allowed to degenerate into swearing or threatening, these kinds of incidents will continue to occur. That brings me to Mrs Koşer Kaya's final point. Indeed, it is unacceptable for council members to feel so obstructed in their functioning that even their voting behaviour is changed. I understood from the study that this occurred in 2% to 5% of the cases. They're low percentages, but it's still way too high. If there is any intimidation or threat, this should be put on the table in public, including at a council meeting. That's crucial. We'll also put this on the table in the conversation with the mayors. All parties, all council members, should then declare that they recognize this problem, but that they do not let themselves fall. They should always press charges and not accept this. They must also indicate that this will never affect their voting behaviour. In this way, we are all in favour of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	Our rule of law and our democracy are an incredibly great asset. However, I find it lighthearted that it is only said that mayors receive training and help to tackle this problem. This also concerns our aldermen and councilmen. Such training cannot be limited to the mayors. This must therefore be extended. That's one. Secondly, we need to sit down with the VNG as soon as possible in order to make a roadmap to ensure that threats and intimidation no longer take place. Thirdly, if there is harassment or threat, council members should be able to call, for example with a hotline, to raise this issue, even if it is in the middle of the night. A mayor can of course play a very nice role in that. Can the Minister take this opportunity with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	I also feel the urgent nature of Mrs Koşer Kaya's statement. It is not for nothing that we have already organised a meeting on this subject, and also that the trainings mentioned already exist. Mrs Koşer Kaya also asked for a roadmap. There is indeed a roadmap on how to deal with threatened council members at local level. Mrs Koşer Kaya also pointed out that it is important to be able to report and ask for protection. As sad as it is that it is necessary, there is, of course, already a system of protection and security for council members, aldermen and mayors who are the victims of major threats. The suggestions made by Mrs Koşer Kaya on additional training are a logical subject to involve in the already planned consultation with the mayors and the VNG. I can imagine that there are gaps, but then I really want to talk to the people who are going to talk about where they are and how we fill them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment to include in the consultation at least the training and other possible steps that can be taken to prevent intimidation and threat to council members. I would ask the Minister to send the outcome of the consultation on the roadmap and the possible solutions to train council members to the Chamber. Then we can discuss it further if necessary. However, prevention is better than cure. I would therefore like to take the preventive side with me in the conciliation. Can the Secretary of State agree to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	After the talks with the mayors and the VNG have taken place, I would like to let the Chamber know what has come out of that. I will also include the measures that have already been taken, for example the Roadmap and the training courses, so that an overall overview of measures already in place and still to be taken is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	In particular, the article of the Association for Council Members pointed out that council members would change their votes under pressure from third parties. In his reply, the Minister states that it is very good that training is taking place. My question is: would you also like to involve party directors in the training, so that there is also purity from party management and that there can be no pressure on the independence of council members?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	On this point, too, I can imagine at first that this is happening, but I think it is logical to involve this in the same discussion, in the discussion on how to make the most effective parties and representatives of the people even more resistant to this kind of intimidation. I fully agree with Mr Klein and Mrs Koşer Kaya on this point. It is unacceptable for people to change their voting behaviour out of fear of the possible consequences of that voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-22-tweedekamer-5.u9	I thank the Minister for his answers to the questions asked and for his coming to the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Heerma of the CDA.
