ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u1	Nine speakers have spoken before this debate, one of whom has not requested speaking time. In fact, therefore, eight speakers have come forward. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Van Raak of the SP and propose that we start with three interruptions per group in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his anniversary. He's been Prime Minister for five years, unique in these times. At that time, of course, he learned that politics is based on trust, between voters and elected representatives, and between directors. This country cannot be governed if politicians cheat, if they are constantly playing games and strategically leaking. How does the Prime Minister look back on the weeks before Princess Day and how can he still trust his ministers? It was an embarrassing display that the Prime Minister demanded the secrecy of the MPs while his ministers leaked all the plans. It was a brutal display that the government took a month off parliamentary control and lured the population. Mr. President, if Members of Parliament leak, you report it. If ministers leak, the prime minister doesn't. That is why my question is: since when have ministers been above the law? According to the Prime Minister, an investigation is not possible because so many people are involved. That sounds like bullshit to me with all due respect. When drawing up the budget, we know exactly who has what information when. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to start an investigation and to make it clear who these fat pits are in the ministries. In 2009, when dealing with this budget, Prime Minister Balkenende said that leaks testified to a "dignious mentality" and a "dignification of our democracy." Does this Prime Minister share that judgment? And what's he gonna do about it? At least I'd like to give him a suggestion. If you want less leaks, you also need to employ less delicious, so less spindoctors and less media strategists. What does the Prime Minister think of our proposal to make substantial savings in the information departments of the ministries, which have grown so much in recent years, and to invest this money, for example, in a fund for independent journalism? Thanks to the continued commitment of this parliament, the king's budget has become increasingly transparent over the years. This will enable us to see better whether costs are reasonable. The king gets €43,000 next year. For ordinary people, that's a whole year's salary. We think that's too much. If all this fits into the rules, we need to think about whether those rules are right. All tax exemptions for the king, the queen and the former queen are certainly not good. Everyone has to pay taxes, so she has to pay taxes. But we have a problem: the PvdA. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, it opposed the abolition of tax benefits, in 2010 for, in 2011 against and in 2012, 2013 and 2014. But the Labour Party was only in the newspaper, not in the Chamber. Every time we suggested what the Labour Party said it wanted, she voted against it. This year, it's gonna have to be different. If I can believe the rumors in the media, it'll be different. I am very curious whether the Labour Party will last this year or not. We all have to watch out for the little ones, including the Prime Minister. Which brings me to the maintenance of De Groene Draeck. The Prime Minister says that every year it takes almost one tonne for a ship of about six tonnes. Specialists from Sailcharter Friesland, specializing in the maintenance of lemsteraken, tell me that they want to do it for about €30,000. That difference is too great. Why should this maintenance be done by the Navy company, which apparently is very expensive, and may well maintain submarines and warships but not necessarily lemsteraken? Why is this maintenance not given to a specialised company, such as Sailcharter Friesland, which is much cheaper? Maybe it's even better if the Royal House just takes care of the maintenance itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today, five years ago, the first Rutte cabinet was sworn in. The Prime Minister is therefore in office for exactly five years today. Mr Van Raak recalled it as well. It is on 14 October that we in the Chamber will discuss the two budgets that this Prime Minister is specifically about. On behalf of the VVD Group, I warmly congratulate him on his first lustrum. We conclude this year's celebration of 200 years of Kingdom. We also celebrate 200 years of State-General on 16 October. This indicates how long our Kingdom and our democracy have been linked and functioning to the satisfaction of a large majority. During the inauguration King Willem-Alexander stated that kingship is a symbol of continuity and unity. It's a direct connection to our political past. In history we find the anchoring of the values we share. One of these values concerns the serving role of the King. The King holds his office in the service of the community. That puts this king into practice in his own way. He acts as ambassador of the Netherlands and our business in the Netherlands and abroad, and has a great deal of respect for the importance of sport and social aspects in our society. For example, he is present at major sporting events, but is also ready to support farmers whose holdings have been affected by bird flu, or to speak to Groningers who have been destroyed by earthquakes. Also for children and parents who are having a hard time, there is a listening ear when the king opens the renewed Emma Children's Hospital. The king has eyes and ears for every Dutchman, whether he is successful or needs support. The kingship is a connecting factor in our society. The way in which this king fills that out deserves great appreciation as far as the VVD Group is concerned. This is without prejudice to the fact that a modern kingship must also adapt to the demands of this time. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, a modern kingship is not only service, but also transparency and public accountability. The evaluation carried out shows that the King's budget can be more transparent. It is therefore a good thing that the government has accepted all the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. However, my group is proposing a further tightening up on a number of points. What is the situation in the first place with regard to the commitment made to Mr Slob and Mr Van Ojik and supported by almost all parties to make reservations for large-scale maintenance of palaces? Secondly, my group wants the list of foundations containing assets which are functional for the exercise of kingship to be included in the annex to the budget. Can the Prime Minister undertake to do this? Thirdly, the costs of the renovation of the golden coach have not been broken down. Can the Prime Minister promise that this will not lead to a upward adjustment of the relevant budget line?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u4	When we talk about matters necessary for the exercise of kingship, I can imagine something with the Golden Coach. Would the VVD include De Groene Draeck?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u5	You think there should be transparency about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u6	No, I'm asking you if it should be part of the exercise of kingship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u7	I think De Groene Draeck was given a gift to Princess Beatrix for her eighteenth birthday in 1957 by the Dutch people. That means he's a personal gift to a former queen, the princess at the moment and at the time, and as far as we're concerned, that's connected to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u8	I agree with Mrs van der Burg and he has always been treated that way. Crazy enough, he's suddenly getting shaved. I'm speaking the same surprise as Mrs Van der Burg at the regalia and at the Golden Coach. He is crazy enough suddenly no longer part of the property of Princess Beatrix, again Princess Beatrix, but is now mentioned in the office of king. I'm surprised. In any case, I would like, together with the VVD, to make sure that we are going to put that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u9	In my view, he is not in the office of king, because that is why he is being transferred to the defence budget. The reason for this is that he is not functional in the exercise of kingship. I also have some questions about De Groene Draeck. Perhaps Mr Pechtold will join us, because I am curious as to what is happening. Fourthly, Mr Pechtold was in favour of me, my group wants the maintenance costs of De Groene Draeck to be included in the annex to the King's budget. I'd like a commitment. Furthermore, the VVD group finds the maintenance costs of De Groene Draeck high, although the reservation is now included for additional maintenance. The Green Draeck was, as I said, a gift from the Dutch people to Princess Beatrix. There is a great deal of difference between the two offers requested from commercial companies. I am not an expert in this field and am therefore looking for what a realistic level of maintenance is for such a lamsteak with a particularly representative function. Can a second opinion be done on what is a realistic level of maintenance for De Groene Draeck, given its special function? What level of cost is real?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u10	That's a good thing, because the SP had it done by Sailcharter Friesland, a specialized company that looked specifically at this kind of lemsteraken. This company stated that it would like to do it for the Prime Minister's price, €95.000, but is also willing to do it for €32.500. This is, in my view, the research that Mrs Van der Burg wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u11	I have already said that there is a big difference between the two commercial offers. This is a special sailing ship with a special function. I also asked what a realistic level of maintenance is for such a sailing ship. That seems to me to be a clear question to the Prime Minister, and I would like to hear an answer to that. I have seen what your offer has yielded and I have seen what a quote from a commercial company through the Navy company has yielded. I am asking this question and I am very curious to hear the Prime Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u12	That Navy company is a very good company when it comes to warships, maybe submarines, I'm not a spokesman for Defense. I think this company can maintain a lot, but not necessarily lemsteraken. Isn't it a bit strange, perhaps that explains the high price, that the Navy company should maintain the lemsteaak? If another company did that, it would be much cheaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u13	In my opinion, Mr Van Raak would like the company in which he has applied for a tender to do the maintenance. I think it is realistic to ask for a realistic level of maintenance and for a real cost level, given the two different offers made by two commercial companies. The Navy company, as I read from the documents, has also requested a quote from a commercial company.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr Pechtold, that is your second question. We agreed on three in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u15	Oh, my gosh, do we have to get back to the regime? The previous one actually counted as a half, but I'm about to negotiate it. I'm glad the VVD is critical of us. Mrs Van der Burg now also refers to that Navy company. The answers say it has to do with safety. I got an e-mail from a painting school, which says that 25 years ago ten students under the supervision of the painting school De Groene Draeck have been refurbished. The argument that it needs to be secured seems to have been adjusted a bit in recent years, because it used to be done by students. It's more of a supplement than a real question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u16	If it's a supplement, I don't have to answer it either. I think my questions are...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u17	Then it doesn't count!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u18	For that, you must be with the President, because that is not my decision. I think my questions to the Prime Minister are clear. I'm curious to hear the answer. Can the Prime Minister also indicate what he will do with the results of the second opinion? That is, of course, also important. Finally, the VVD Group would like to know when the maintenance costs of De Groene Draeck will be borne by the government. That brings me to the next issue, duty-free. My group has carefully studied the evaluation and the related documents. This shows that the King simply pays taxes on his private income and his private property. On the basis of the documents, my group has come to the conclusion that the brutalization of benefits, or the taxing of benefits, and the compensation for the King for his own personnel, vehicles, the use of palaces and so on are indeed complex. My group therefore chooses, for pragmatic reasons, to leave it as it is today. For the time being, my group is not convinced by the government's arguments as to why the King and his heir to the throne do not have to pay inheritance tax on their private property. Can the Prime Minister explain this again, because it was very brief what was in the evaluation? Maybe it's not part of that either. I'm not sure about that anymore, but I'd still like to get an explanation. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with a thank you to the royal couple and to the royal family, who have been very dedicated to Dutch society every time, also in the past year. They show commitment everywhere, at the highlights we have experienced but also at the lows we have experienced with each other. Their commitment and commitment are magnificent and I would like to thank them for that through the President and the Prime Minister. I remember last year's debate on the King's budget. The whole Chamber then said that the budget was a search card, but the Prime Minister stood up proudly and said that it was all clasp-and-ready. It was actually funny; you should actually look it back. I am nevertheless glad that he has improved the budget, despite the fact that he loved it all and did not think it was necessary to improve it. The budget has become much clearer and the answers to our questions are good. On General Affairs, I would like to make a few more critical remarks. I have seen in the budget that the unity of government policy is a very costly matter. 60 million is spent on it every year! Surely it would not be the case that information on the not too large unity of government policy would cost so much money? How am I supposed to understand that? What is meant in the budget by unity of government policy? It is, by the way, well expressed in the budget. In view of all the challenges we face, we would sometimes almost forget that this cabinet intended to carry out the great transition from the tasks of the Empire to the municipalities. Very important! The Prime Minister has, homage to that, made himself the chairman of a ministerial decentralisation committee. We are now on the move for a while and we can see that there are actually major challenges, especially with regard to youth care and youth-ggz. There are regions that are contracting youth aid at European level, with the result that municipalities are no longer able to talk to healthcare providers. Actually, there are a number of things going on that I'm wondering if that's the intention. There are also major problems with Social Affairs, because care for vulnerable people is sometimes also a very big problem. We would like to hear from the Prime Minister what he is actually doing as President and what his appreciation of this great transition is at the moment. Finally, it is good that extra money is being spent on the CTIVD. We want the AIVD to be firmly positioned and have good powers. Perhaps we are even going to extend those powers; the debate on this is yet to take place. However, let us organize the counterpower properly. We can read that €500,000 is added to that structuralally. In any case, that is something on which we have a positive comment to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I had to learn from my colleagues that today is the five-year anniversary. Congratulations on that! I wanted to start with a completely different anniversary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u21	I don't like it. But still very nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u22	What we do attach to is, of course, 200 years of State-General, 200 years of Parliament. That is what we are celebrating on Friday; then it is exactly 200 years. That's a nice anniversary, which I'll start with. Where in the Middle Ages we had the king and the Bible as solid foundations for our society, Willem van Oranje, Spinoza and even Robespierre finally untied those anchors. Our society has gone anchoring on the individual and on the Constitution. Of course, this includes a parliament to give that individual a voice: 200 years of a parliament with a Constitution in which everyone's fundamental rights, including those of the King, are laid down. This year we also celebrate 200 years of Kingdom, under the house of Orange. I said "crazy enough" because the development of republic to monarchy is not obvious. Fortunately, our new kingdom did not ultimately turn out to be a permanent restoration of the power of the absolute prince, but a remarkable intermediate step was remarkable in the direction of our present democratic rule of law. Moreover, I am very pleased with the celebration of 200 years of the Kingdom, with the emphasis on freedom and with difficult subjects such as slavery and discrimination. During that period, the development of more or less absolute Prince Willem I towards a democratic rule of law took place without violence. That's something to be proud of. In 200 years, step by step, the King has been given the place that suits him, but above all the democratic rule of law. That process isn't over yet. We hesitate to take the final steps, and yet it is time for this. It is time to get it all right, so good that the King's budget can, so to speak, become a hammerpiece, and so good that we can rightly say that we live in a 'crowded republic'. This cabinet is cutting back and hitting many hard in their lives. I realize that every day. Nevertheless, I am in favour of these cuts and reforms because they are necessary for the preservation of our prosperity and for the preservation of our welfare state. What I cannot stand for is that the legitimate economy of the cabinet does not always apply when it comes to the King. What I cannot stand for is that rules that apply to others do not apply to the King. Our head of state is doing a good job. I am proud of our king and queen. I urge the Prime Minister to ensure that our king can remain a king of all the Dutch, subdued when we ask everyone to be restrained. Renovation costs of about €100,000 per year for a sailboat, which is not by the way from Princess Beatrix but from a foundation, do not fit. I therefore ask the Prime Minister to enforce rules around the King if those rules apply to all Dutch. Throwing overboard transparency rules at state bank ABN AMRO for a side job with the king doesn't go along with that either. And what about the towering square meter price for the renovation of Huis ten Bosch? There hasn't been tendered to multiple contractors because of the safety; I still get that. But is there a second opinion requested? The square meter price almost doubled again. The PvdA considers the preservation of monuments important, but I want to make sure that the money goes to the renovation of a monument, with the relevant financial standards. Can the Prime Minister explain again what happened to the rise in the square meter price? I understand that King's position includes a certain status, lifestyle and income. But if the agreements are such that the King as a trend follower of officials also lets go of the zero line, the downside must be that he not only gets the sweet. After all, the fringe of the Orange must remain within certain limits if the King is to continue to play his binding role. For example, it cannot be explained that the King does not pay capital taxes on part of his assets. Article 40 of the Constitution states that he is exempt from it, as far as the ability to function is concerned. Why should his property be exempt from tax if he receives a large salary from the State, his staff is paid, he lives free of charge and uses work palaces and travels at taxpayers' expense? That question was not answered in the recent evaluation of the King's budget. I want the King to pay taxes just like anyone with a certain amount of capital. I want the rules to be changed on this point. Determining what part of the king's wealth might need for his functioning has never happened, at least not publicly. We discussed this in 2011. I understand that if you treated him equally as other Dutchmen, the king would not have to file his tax returns openly and openly. It's okay to keep it a secret. But let's go one step further and just say that the exemption of part of the ability to function is an anachronism, a mistake in time. I am considering tabling a motion to end this privilege and to force the government to specify which elements of the property and which parts should not be taxed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u23	Looks like it's gonna be a historic night. An egg is being laid, but let's see what that is, because as long as I am in this Chamber, so since 2006, the PvdA has been saying almost every year that the members of the Royal House should simply pay taxes, just like all Dutch. But when I make a proposal, it's always fired by the PvdA. I think if you say something in the paper, you should say it in the Chamber. So what kind of proposal is it going to be? After all, on the one hand, Mr Recourt says that everyone in the Netherlands must pay taxes, including the members of the Royal House, but on the other hand, his appeal to the Prime Minister seems to be mainly an overview of what taxes are paid and which are not paid. What exactly is Mr Recourt's egg going to look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u24	As of 2011, I am the spokesman on behalf of the PvdA for this budget. In 2011, Mr Van Raak and I have already laid an egg on this issue together, with the aim of making it clear. That motion was passed, but the Prime Minister said that he would not implement it because that would be an exception to the rule that you do not have to make public what you discuss with the IRS. I accepted that at the time. In 2013 we moved back together. An evaluation has been promised. I believe that Mr Van Raak then tabled another motion in 2014, but I did not want to participate in it because I wanted to wait for the evaluation. This as far as history goes. The evaluation has been carried out and this history has also been carefully reviewed. However, the evaluation ignores the question of why the Constitution still requires duty-free. But all that aside. It does, however, appear in Article 40 of the Constitution. I can't get around that. The Constitution says that there are elements on which no tax is due. I have included those elements in a motion for a resolution. In that motion, I will then say 'the rest of it' and ask the government to settle it. Then we do not have to change the Constitution. We can just do it by law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u25	No one here wants the members of the Royal House to put their tax returns in the paper. No one has to do that, so they certainly don't. There doesn't need to be any more research. What needs to be done is that the special tax advantages disappear. That's how simple life is. It applies to everyone, including the members of the Royal House. The proposal can therefore be no different than that the members of the Royal House will no longer receive tax advantages. If that is what the Constitution needs to be changed for, well, then we need to change the Constitution for that. We do this with some regularity in this Chamber and also across the street, in the Upper Chamber. Is the proposal now that the members of the Royal House, the King, the Queen and the former Queen, lose their special tax arrangements, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yeah, but with a very small if. This means the difference between the SP and the Labour Party. The SP says, "Let's change the Constitution." Then we will have a very long time to arrange it fully and properly. I say, let's see how we can work it out. That's what this motion is for. Look at the motion. I think you're gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u27	I am not suspicious, but I am interested in what period the PvdA intends to achieve. After the years of discussion that are becoming increasingly vulnerable, my group believes that it is time to take clear action. We have one of the most expensive royal houses, even the most expensive, in Europe. No gesture has been made by the family itself in recent times. You could have expected that since 2008. Even the surcharges now, the zero line and even the €500 are counted for trend followers. I'm asking the PvdA to indicate the time frame in which we're going to be effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u28	I want to know how it will do before 1 May next year of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u29	We could take the initiative in part. I invite Mr Recourt to do so and offer my support. It's gonna be hard to reappear over and over in the cabinet. If we are well supported by General Affairs and Finance, we can do some work ourselves. I'm so afraid we'll be disappointed if we start on May 1st. Would Mr Recourt, I am also looking at Mr Van Raak, feel that if we have that majority, which I do taste, we will come up with proposals ourselves in a shorter time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u30	I do not taste a two-thirds majority needed for a constitutional change, at least at second reading. That's why I've been thinking: how can we avoid such a long journey the outcome of which is uncertain? That can be done by changing the law. It will then become a bit complex; that is why we have the chamber instrument of the motion. We call upon the government by a majority, I hope; it is not quite sure yet to do so for us. We'll put a deadline on that. If that doesn't happen, it's up to the Chamber. We can push it or pick it up ourselves. My first move is to say by majority vote: government, arrange it in the short term. I think that's the fastest hit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u31	Okay, Mr Recourt prefers that. We're pretty dependent on him because he's supposed to deliver about half of those seats. Then can we talk about that term? This discussion has been hanging over us for years. I also find it annoying to the royal family to wait until May 1st and then come back to it. Before you know it, we'll be looking at each other again next year, we'll congratulate the Prime Minister on his sixth year, at least, he hopes; if he makes it, we'll congratulate him and nothing has happened again. I suggest that we bring that deadline forward a little bit. Why can't we do that before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u32	Let's open the question. It will be difficult, because it will be ruled by a motion that has not yet been adopted and has not even been tabled. Let me ask the question this way. If legislation relating to tax exemptions needs to be amended, what time limit can it and within what time period can it inform the Cabinet of how to do that? I hope to get an answer to that. I will continue with my speech and I would like to conclude positively. The palaces on the Dam and at the North End, Palace House Ten Bosch; they are all of us. We all pay by taxes to remodel and maintain those beautiful palaces. They're palaces with a history, palaces with a story. Let's open these palaces to everyone. I've asked for this before. Let's invite school classes to visit. Let us give children the opportunity to visit a real palace and take a look behind. That is not only very nice, but also educational. It brings history to life. It means that we can benefit much more from the palaces than is currently the case. At the Palace on Dam Square it was partly successful, but it should also be possible at Noordeinde or Huis ten Bosch. It's gotta be possible. By the way, my appreciation for that first step. On this point, too, I am considering a motion. The Labour Party wants to connect people. We want commitment to each other and we want to eliminate indifference. The King stands for connection. He carries that in the Netherlands we have more in common than we do and he does that well. In a binding kingship, there are no unnecessary privileges and no blank cheques, so let us now take the last bump and turn this budget, preferably in the years to come, into a hammer piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u33	Mr President, I congratulate you on 200 years of Parliament, I congratulate the Prime Minister on 5 years of Prime Ministership and I congratulate D66 on the 49th anniversary of the founding of the party today. The Prime Minister as President of the Cabinet and the vulnerability of the Kingship in 2015 are the two themes I would like to address today. The general affairs budget has traditionally not been so interesting. Mr Recourt has already said it. However, attention is increasing, unfortunately, due to a reservoir of unresolved problems. We have an experienced Prime Minister in front of us. What he does and leaves behind is his choice, his style. I'm looking at that critically. Take the sergeant transferred to ISIS. The Prime Minister wishes him dead instead of in court and says that this is only a fact, a private view. That's bullshit. A prime minister is always in office, especially from field K, and a wish is not a fact. In the General Political Reviews we were running out of time, so I ask my questions again. Do Dutch jihadists have to die or not? Should defectors from the army be prosecuted or not? Is the Prime Minister in office 24/7 or is it a part-time job? Is there a unity of cabinet policy, yes or no? Leaning on his election programme, the Prime Minister makes a number of impossible promises. He's doing that structuralally. I'd say don't do that. Take an example of Merkel and the refugee crisis. She speaks out, intervenes and makes it chefsache. When will our Prime Minister take the lead? This government often paints my surprise. Answering parliamentary questions: time and time again too late. What's taking so long? Is there anything to hide? I'm getting suspicious, and many with me. The Prime Minister promised to get better last year. I checked it with a sample, just like last year. The rule is three weeks and six weeks in complicated parliamentary questions, but it's getting worse and worse. Last year there was an answer, and I say it to you as well, President-in-Office of the Council, 28 days, and now that is 32 days. Less than a third came in time and only 2 out of 74 questions from the sample were answered within a week. I'm a parliamentarians. I'm not an accountant, I'm not an accountant, I'm not an inspector. I want information as soon as it's there, requested and unsolicited, on time and complete. That's my constitutional right. The same applies to letters and reports. I find putting away bad news unacceptable and yet it happens: on Friday afternoon late, the evening before Prince's Day and even during the throne speech. Where is the pride to respond quickly and to inform properly, I ask the Prime Minister. Create honor in communication and be a trustworthy government. Information is a right of the Chamber, not a favor to the Chamber. The rulers need to respond faster. Can I count on the Prime Minister to say this year that he's really gonna take care of that? That's how we got to the King's budget. Last week I visited the archives of the Royal House, along with the committee. I have to say, fantastic. We received a good reception, for which thanks. We were told that the archives of the Royal House are about trust. I would add: transparency. In the 21st century it is both. The Prime Minister must feel the spirit of time and act accordingly. He must make the King less vulnerable and offer confidence and transparency. I don't blame the family, but the Prime Minister does on some points. For years, in the words of the Prime Minister, we have been talking about boats, scaffolding, containers and remodeling. It's an infinite series of incidents. It started with special maintenance and too high costs for De Groene Draeck. I don't understand. So today I want a full explanation. Stop the discussion. Give the boat a full gift and let the family pay for the maintenance. Does the Prime Minister share this view? Talk about lengthy discussions: Mozambique. The King and the Queen travel there I still hear many times. Is that right? Then what's that earlier letter worth? I thought the place was gonna be sold. Or is she being hired now? Regarding the Greek holiday home: have the security and scaffolding costs remained within the budget? Did security also have to purchase another speedboat for seven tons in order to keep the king on the water? The renovation of Huis ten Bosch is also amazing. From 35 million, as discussed here last year, costs have risen to 59 million. Those are extra costs that the Prime Minister ruled out here last year. What does that say about his judgment and the state real estate company? What's leading, facts or politics? The square meter price was €4,000 and is now €6,500. How can I ask the Prime Minister? Why does the Prime Minister charge the entire surface for the renovation of both a half and an entire palace? Greetings for opening the Orange Room, but that is not meant as a sweetener. Time and time again the King comes into discussion with this: an edition here, an overrun there, unclearness sister and gloomyness so. The same goes for the golden carriage. Can the Prime Minister explain why it should take four years? And how much is that? Then the seven and a half tons for phones. I can't imagine the Prime Minister's will to do that. What's he gonna do about it? The King's income is eight tons a year, tax-free. Living, traveling, staffing, security and costumes are not in income. What exactly is involved in these tax exemptions? The ozb? The VAT? Insurance? I would also like to be clear about this tonight. Now the King gets more than a modal income of €43,000 tax-free. Why? The King is exempt from a lot of taxes, but he is trending in the salaries of civil servants. He even gets the bonus of $500 gross. For him, that's net. Princess Beatrix is retired, isn't she? Why does she get the extra benefit for workers? We must tax the King. As far as I am concerned, that step is fundamental. His income can also be reduced. We have one of the most expensive royal houses in Europe. If the King does not make this gesture himself, or his advisers, Parliament must give an impetus to it. This government can't be against that, because the first Top Income Standards Act hadn't been evaluated yet or the second was already bulging over it. As far as I am concerned, a roadmap for the 2017 budget should be feasible. Is the Prime Minister gonna do this? I'm counting on his support. After all, he himself said this summer that exemption for the King is obsolete. Let us hope that the budgets of General Affairs and the King will be quiet again and that the Prime Minister will bring the king to the 21st century: sober where it should be, royal where it can be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his lustrum. In the short time I have, I would like to raise three issues in this budget debate. Firstly, this is the way in which the Ministry of General Affairs and the Prime Minister give substance to the tasks assigned to them in Article 45 of the Constitution, the general government policy and the promotion of its unity. Secondly, I have a number of questions about the cabinet's communication policy. Thirdly, I would like to ask a few questions about the royal budget. First of all, I come to the general government policy and the promotion of its unity. I am sure that this will also include an orderly process of preparing the national budget. I've seen it for a lot of years, but this year was an absolute low when it comes to leaking. For this reason, there was no news at all in the throne speech about the government's policy intentions. Everything was on the street. It's a recurring thing, we know it, but it's never been so bad. It is therefore difficult to combat this disease in The Hague. I have the impression that the Prime Minister has already given up. Don't you think it's time you changed your mind? Once upon a time, the Bureau investigated that. The De Wijkerslooth committee then decided on some options for this. You could, for example, make the budget documents available directly to the public in the sub- Councils or the Council of Ministers after they have been dealt with. Then the throne speech could also have a slightly different character. I don't have any final judgments on that, but the way things are going, things aren't going well. I would ask the Prime Minister to reflect on his own role in these processes and on alternatives to the current, unsatisfactory situation. My second point relates to communication on government policy. I read in the budget of the Ministry of General Affairs that the communication budget, 'presentation Dutch cabinet policy abroad', is increasing. What is the reason for this, especially now that new policies are no longer being made? How many informers are currently working in all ministries? Is it true that in certain ministries of the Interior there is a particular mention of communication in a larger management of "group support" and that policy information is thus of a more political nature and, if so, what ratio is behind it? I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg's compliments towards our royal family. They have represented our country in many times over the past year and in many places in a very beautiful and dignified way. Last year I asked whether we should not make some more reservations for the maintenance of palaces. Colleague Van der Burg asked about it as well. We would be further informed about this. What's the status? I agree with the questions about De Groene Draeck. That does indeed require clarification. This year we celebrated the 200th anniversary of our Kingdom. We rightly pointed that out when we discussed the budget last year, even if it was just to remind us of the mirror of our history. But I do realize that when I say "us," that needs to be somewhat relative. Research shows that only half of the population has experienced any of these festivities. I would ask the Prime Minister to respond to this celebration and to the way in which he has experienced it, also within the framework of the objectives that we set for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u35	Madam President. It's the Netherlands' birthday. It can now be forgotten that since 2013 we have been considering a number of political facts worth celebrating: in 1813 the return of the Dutch after the liberation of the French and this year our own party, 200 years of State-General. I read that the turnout last week was more than 10,000 people on Friday and Saturday. That's worth a compliment to the organization. Remembrance of historical events is a good thing, but the Netherlands and the States-General of course existed before 1813. I would like to ask the Prime Minister, after all, he is also a historian when it is the Netherlands' birthday. When was the Netherlands born? That's kind of a tricky question. We have also had an intrusive discussion in the group itself, I can tell you. We thought July 26, 1581 was a good chancer. That is the date of the Plate of Abandonment, by which "the King of Hispanje" which we had so long honored was renounced. This declaration of independence has also worked inspiringly towards other countries. It is a pity that this statement is not taken out of the dust until someone like Obama comes to the Netherlands. Those highlights from our constitutional history should be brought to the attention of the public. You should build a monument to it! What opportunities does the Prime Minister see for paying more attention to this history?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u36	I'm Dordtenaar. So this is really a shot for open purpose. In Dordrecht, you will probably know that in The Court you opened a museum with this very theme. So I suggest you take a trip to Dordrecht and visit that museum.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u37	That's a good tip. When Mr Recourt began to say that he is a Dordtenaar, I thought for a moment that he would come up with the question of whether the first free State meeting held in Dordrecht in 1572 would not be the starting point. But, indeed, it is very nice that that way in Dordt history is kept alive. I come to the next topic I would like to raise. Since this summer, we have been dealing with the immense and deepest refugee crisis. With almost every crisis and with all kinds of difficult political questions that arise from time to time, His Majesty's most loyal opposition always raises the question of the Prime Minister's direction. That is often also a political debate, but I do like to ask the Prime Minister, Mr Delors, how he looks at the direction of the Prime Minister and the way in which he has developed over the past few years. I have the impression that, more than in the past, the unity of government policy from the Council of Ministers is linked in particular to the role of the Prime Minister and that expectations of that direction have increased. I'd like to hear his reflection on that. Finally, I come to the Royal House's budget. I would like to join with the appreciation expressed today for the binding role played by the King, the Queen and the other members of the Royal House. Of course, it is part of the rituals of this budgetary treatment that there are always a number of posts on which discussion is possible. However, let me say first of all that I think it is a very good thing that, thanks to the 2009 Royal House Financial Statute Act, which has been established with great support from the First Chamber and the Second Chamber, we are happy to have no more discussion about many things. There's always something embarrassing in it when you have to start talking about those last posts, which then again dominate the debate. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if all the noise and fuss that could still be there could be taken away. I also agree with the questions about De Groene Draeck. That was a gift from the Dutch people. Maintenance and operation would be borne by the State. However, you will notice that this is a subject which is now being discussed again. How can it be arranged in such a way that broad agreement can be reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. My group is in favour of ceremonial kingship and against the current excessive cost of our monarchy. The House of Orange is the most expensive royal house in Europe. Total expenditure amounts to over EUR 100 million. Expensive renovations to palaces, holiday villas and high net fees: the newspapers and magazines have been full of them for years. The cabinet even increases the allowances for the members of the Royal House. For example, the king's payment alone increases by €43.000 to €866.000. Also the €500 civil servant bonus is simply credited to the royal bank account. This money bounce can no longer be explained to the Dutch taxpayer. My group would like the members of the Royal House to make a gesture. Dismiss voluntarily the increase in the benefit, as the Spanish king did. The Prime Minister must also choose to freeze the royal benefits instead of indexing them. Another example of excessive expenditure is De Groene Draeck. The maintenance of this yacht costs as much as €95.000 per year. The time has come to give this boat permanently to the Oranges and leave the taxpayer alone. Entrepreneurs, police officers, military and teachers: all Dutch pay taxes on their income. Everyone does, except the members of the Royal House. They are also exempt from inheritance and gift tax. It's all not like this anymore. We don't live in the nineteenth century anymore. These generous tax advantages must be brought to an end as soon as possible. Finally. On 3 November, the King will pay a visit to the European Parliament. It would be very nice if he would send a clear message in Brussels, a story that the Dutch people have been craving for months: close borders for new asylum seekers, and reception in their own region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u39	This brings to an end the first term of office. The Prime Minister has indicated that he needs 15 minutes to prepare for the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr. Chairman. If you allow me to speak a few introductory words, then I will first come to the answer of a number of questions concerning the royal house and then to the questions that have been asked about the unity of government policy and the position of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of General Affairs. By the way, may I begin by thanking everyone. I hate birthdays, but it's really nice that you've all reminded me of the five years. I appreciate that very much. It's well-intentioned, but please don't ever do it again. Then I have a few comments to make. Many spokesmen have spoken about the position of the royal family. There's a difference of opinion about our form of state. There is broad support for the monarchy. No matter how you look at it, I think we should all note that in the Netherlands the king, but also Queen Maxima, play a very good role. Representing; we see it in the state visits to Japan, Korea, Denmark, Canada and all kinds of other places. I call it the big visit to the United States this spring. They really put the Netherlands on the map. They open doors, which may otherwise remain closed. Secondly, they have a joint role in many events. We see this nationally and locally; we sometimes see it traditionally, sometimes innovatively. I think this is certainly also of great value in times of change. Their role is also encouraging in many social initiatives. Look at what is happening through the Orange Fund and also in conversation with people from the COA; concerned people, who are busy with the reception of refugees in all kinds of ways. But also in conversation with people in Rotterdam-Zuid and in Eindhoven, residents and administrators and other foremen about how to feel at home in your own neighbourhood. There are a lot of events. Roughly counted we reach 200 events and visits in the last twelve months. Don't catch me on one more or less, but there are a lot of them. We can see that our royal couple has a very special and important role for the Netherlands, in the Netherlands itself, but also abroad. We can respect that. I think it is important to share this with this Chamber. I am addressing a number of questions about the transparency of the budget and other aspects of the financing of the royal family. I do so in the light of the decisions we took in 2009/2010 on the basis of the results of the Zalm Committee. Then there was a fundamental look at the Law Financial Statute of the Royal House. This ultimately led to the redesign of the budget in 2010 among my predecessors. There has been broad support for this. Today we are discussing the evaluation of that budget. This evaluation, which was received by the Chamber in June with a cabinet response, which took on board all the recommendations, has led to the necessary questions from the Chamber. In addition, it is important to mention that we want to further increase transparency by adding, as of the 2016 budget, the additional complement to the King's budget, which now also shows the expenditure on state visits, which are on the Foreign Affairs budget, and the provision of palaces, which are on the Housing and National Service budget. I would also like to mention security and the budgets of Security and Justice and of Defence. They need to be explained. It is important to bring together the findability of all these expenses and to make them understandable. Indeed, according to Zalm's principles, if I may put it that way, they are not on the King's budget. The implication is that that is my feeling when I listen to the Chamber that in itself supports that approach, although some questions have naturally been asked on a number of parts. I'll get back to you on that. This as an introduction to the part of this debate that is about the royal family. To conclude the introduction, I would like to say in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij that I also looked at when the Netherlands was born. Van der Staaij came out on 1581, the Plaktkaat van Verlatinghe. I myself come out at 1568, the Eighty Years' War; the beginning of detaching us from the great Spanish empire. Others will make other choices. It is also perfectly conceivable that 1795, the National Assembly or 1798, the first national Constitution, should be elected. Those, too, are of course moments in our history. Anyway, maybe we can unite in the sixteenth century. That is always the least sensitive, because it is so far back. Then we get out, whether it's 1568 or 1581. I'm going back to the royal house and the question of duty-free. There are three things in the Constitution: duty-free on inheritance duties for the heirs, duty-free on benefits and duty-free on assets serving the royal function. My impression was that Mr Recourt asked a question about the third part in particular, but I may not have fully understood that. I report that this article of the Constitution, the duty-free system, is in fact obsolete with assets serving the royal function. In practice, this is no longer the case, because all these issues have now been put into foundations. However, the duty-free regime resulting from the provisions that inheritance tax on the transfer of assets to the heir is exempt from tax, as is the tax payment on the benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr Van Raak wishes to place an interruption. Also in this round we do up to three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u42	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u43	Let's start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u44	No, please don't do that school. You can't do that. I have asked a lot of questions and I do not want to limit the number of interruptions in the course of budgetary discussions. We'll do whatever it takes and we'll do it really reluctantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u45	I take it that Mr Pechtold needs more than three interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u46	Hold my answer, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I'll serve him all the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u47	Is it true that most of the tax exemptions for the members of the Royal House stem from the Constitution? I was very pleased with the proposal of the Labour Party, which now seems to be moving away and which is in favour of limiting tax exemptions, but it seems that the Labour Party wants to spare the Constitution. Can the Prime Minister indicate what tax exemptions exist, and what are the results of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u48	They all come from the Constitution. Of these, two are still up-to-date. The third is a dead letter. The King pays all the taxes we all pay, with the exception that he may inherit inheritance rights to the heir and that no tax is levied on the benefit. He also pays all normal taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u49	So, if I understand correctly, the Labour Party says: we want to stop all tax exemptions, except those contained in the Constitution. The Prime Minister is now saying: there are only tax exemptions from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u50	No, I'm not. That's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u51	Then I repeat my question to the Prime Minister and he simply has to answer my questions. What are the tax exemptions, which are the result of the Constitution and which are not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u52	I have just answered that, but I have also tried to interpret what Mr Recourt meant in the first term. I understand it so that he says: apart from the tax exemption on inheritance rights on the King's inheritance, not to other children but specifically to the heir, taxes are simply paid. Princess Irene and others have simply paid tax on what they may have inherited when Princess Juliana and Prince Bernhard died. In principle, the then Queen Beatrix did not pay any tax on this, if there were any; I did not look at the inheritance tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u53	Then I want my...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u54	I'm not done and I'm trying to illustrate it. The tax exemption on inheritance rights, for the heir only, is therefore the first. The second current tax exemption is that on the benefit. Furthermore, they pay all taxes. In the Constitution there is a third, the tax exemption on assets serving the royal function. But once again, that is a dead letter, because it is now all housed in foundations. Think, for example, of the Golden Coach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u55	I would like to repeat my question, because I think the Prime Minister is deliberately creating a lack of clarity. The Labour Party proposes to abolish the tax exemptions, except those provided for in the Constitution. So I would ask the Prime Minister one more time: if we spare the Constitution, what tax exemptions will be left?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u56	None. But that is not how I understood Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u57	Look, but that means that the proposal that the Labour Party wants to make is not an egg but an empty egg, because then there are no tax exemptions at all that are not in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u58	I am trying to interpret what Mr Recourt means, because I feel that Mr Van Raak is misinterpreting it. Mr Recourt is also at the interrupting microphone and will undoubtedly explain it. I understand that he says: there are several tax exemptions, including those relating to the property at the service of the royal function. Mr Recourt asked for an impact on the situation. Can the cabinet give a more detailed explanation of this before May next year? I can do that, but the main answer will be that it is in itself an empty article, because it no longer covers current tax exemptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u59	It will be difficult, because I would really like to respond to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u60	But you have a second term for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u61	My proposal concerns not only the tax exemption for the purpose of performing the function, but all three tax exemptions. It is new to me that this tax exemption at the service of the function would be an empty shell. I've looked it back in history. In 1968 it was explicitly discussed in the constitutional review. It has been said that part of the capital is necessary for the performance of the function. For this reason, no capital tax is levied. Another part is seen as private property and that is the subject of taxation. In the Chamber we have discussed the same thing in recent years. Then it was said: we are not going to say what the Tax Administration is discussing with the king, so we cannot tell what part it is about. New is that that part would be zero, because everything is in foundations. My first question is: can the Prime Minister really confirm that the exempted part of the assets serving the performance of the function is zero?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u62	It is precisely an exemption from inheritance tax for those cases where there is private property inherited or property serving the royal function. The latter is not topical in practice, because it is all housed in foundations. Remains about private property. There is an exemption for this. That applies only from the king to his successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u63	So this is about inheritance taxes, inheritance taxes and not capital taxes. I hear the Prime Minister say that there is no money on which capital taxes are not paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u64	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u65	Then there is the tax on income, the A component. Of that component, you can say that it's a pocket pocket, but can the foundations, at the time they give a return, generate income in favor of the King?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u66	No, you can't. If the Golden Coach is rented out, we will not do so, by the way, it is not for the benefit of the king's income.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u67	It is good that transparency around income and taxes is increasing, but I am asking a few more questions just to be safe. Is the user part of the property tax paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u68	The user part of the property tax is paid. I'm gonna take a look at my officials. Yeah, that's paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u69	VAT is paid, insurance is paid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u70	Let me turn it around, or we'll have to peel it all off. It's much simpler to say what no tax is paid for. No tax will be paid if the king inherits Amalia, the heir to the throne. There is no tax on private property and no benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u71	In the past, it has been shown that there are exceptions, if you mention an example. That's why I'd like to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u72	We are talking about taxes and not about...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u73	Yes, but there are taxes and insurance, like household and household insurance. Even if a palace is made available or if there is other real estate used... An ordinary tenant pays. Is real estate tax paid when it's at stake? Will VAT be paid if, for example, a speedboat is purchased? Or can it be retrieved later under the guise of exemption? That's the kind of business I'd really like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr Pechtold looks so sly that I would like to double check this. My feeling is that it's being taxed, but I'm gonna have it double-checked.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr President, we will do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u76	Maybe in this term if I get it handed out like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u77	What is the philosophy of breaking the zero line, as with the civil servants, and then giving the royal couple a salary increase that amounts to two modal salaries for them? They get this net, by the way, while a normal salary is gross. What is the philosophy behind giving the $500 also to the retired princess?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u78	I didn't think of that, and I don't think Mr Pechtold did either. It stems from the whole evaluation, which was actually also the basis of Zalm's opinion in 2009-2010 on the revision of the Royal House fees system. The whole system of the benefit was then reconfirmed and also anchored in some places. It is stipulated that the benefit is linked to the income of the Vice-President of the Council of State, as we know, and that it also moves along with the income of the Vice-President of the Council of State. So if the vice president gets money... Yes, Mr. Pechtold looks at me like he wants to ask me how I can think of that, but we didn't think of that. Mr Pechtold did not come up with this either. It's been conceived for us, and it's been evaluated now. It's been established that it's a good system. I think so, too. However, I would like to point out that it is linked to the income of the Vice-President of the Council of State. If his salary goes up, because the zero line is released, the king's salary goes up as well. By the way, I should like to mention that it would be a little crazy at one point. This has to do with the whole issue of income above a tonne on which pension contributions are no longer built up. This obviously does not apply to the king, because that would have led to an additional increase in the royal benefit of some 3.5%, which is about €30,000 a year. It has been agreed not to pay out, although this is strictly in the structure. The king does not enjoy that pension, because after he leaves, if he resigns before his death, he will receive a benefit as an ex-monarch, as Princess Beatrix now receives a benefit. It has therefore been decided not to do so. It's about $30,000 a year he doesn't get. He wishes this on his own. This is an effect of pensions above the barrel and that effect does not affect him himself. He also goes along with the Vice President's salary, just like all benefit recipients. That's the system. Again, I didn't think of that, that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u79	We are slowly coming out of the crisis. I am surprised that, if you add it up, the royal couple has €100,000 to spend tax-free per month, without the cost of living, security, secretariat and others. They have that, let's just say, as pocket money, €100,000! Then we use the system that, when the officials go off the zero line, the king gets €44,000, the queen about half of it and the queen mother about 30,000. I just don't think that's thoughtful. Within the same system, even the retired queen mother receives the €500 that workers get. I think that's an accounting precision that doesn't fit into a time of restraint. Has no one thought that a net monthly income of €100,000 for the royal couple is beautiful and that a formality like the zero line should be released for them? And certainly also the formality of the €500 that the workers received, and who have to pay taxes on it! This isn't going to be paid back to these three members of the royal family, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u80	We have unanimously approved this whole system as a Chamber. Back in 2008, both Mr Pechtold and I were in opposition. We all agreed to that. I think it's worth defending. You're gonna have to anchor somewhere. The anchor is the income of the Vice President of the Council of State. If this income does not rise, the benefit does not rise. If this income does rise, the benefit will rise. There is one strange element in it, because we have now made a very specific adjustment to the pension system, also with the support of D66. In particular, this affects pension levels above the tonne. This would have led to an additional increase in benefits. The king doesn't get a pension. He also said that he does not want to do so, that is the €30,000 per year. I think that is very neat and also understandable from the system. But other than that, his income just moves along. Mr Pechtold can now be very surprised, but that is what we all decided in 2008 and what I am really defending here. Mr Pechtold asked about this €500. Also for the one-off €500, the members of the Royal House who receive a benefit follow the development of the Vice President's net income. The Vice President of the Council of State, like all officials, will receive €500. That's net less, of course. According to the current system, this continues to work towards the payment of the King, the Queen and Princess Beatrix. You cannot say that it is €500, because here, of course, it is also linked to the net benefit. After all, it is so arranged that the benefit follows the net income of the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u81	I'd like to see that on paper. We're gonna spend the money now, but what's left of the $500? How can the Prime Minister insist that the King has no pension? You can see that the queen-mother not only gets a substantial benefit of three or four tons but also that 500 euros. I'm not interested in how it was ever conceived. When we thought of it, no one knew to my best that the vice president's automation would lead to this. The people who are involved in this are teachers or cops. They get a net few tens, but the King gets €44.000 plus €500. I ask myself in all honesty why no one, when that was calculated, thought: "We haven't had a gesture since 2008, even though other royal houses did. We also have the most expensive royal house in Europe, why don't we let go of this formalist institution and not do it?" And again, I repeat, aboundingly, I am not blaming the family itself. I blame those who advise and carry out these formalities. I'm asking for a precise calculation. What's left of that $500? Can I also have a better justification for why the Vice-President's formality has been carried out with this kind of astronomical amount as a result?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr Pechtold cannot run away from his responsibility. I really object to this, in all friendship and in the openness of this debate. Unanimously it has been established here that this should become the system. You have to pick an anchor. The benefit has not increased in recent years because none of our salaries, MPs, ministers and civil servants have risen. We've all been on the zero line, including the Royal House. That anchor means that the Royal now also goes off the zero line. You can't expect the Royal House to say: oh, I'll stay on the zero line. We've chosen the Vice President's anchor, and now that his income is rising just like the other government staff's salaries, you can't just let go of that anchor. I would find that completely unreasonable. We know the tax rates and everyone can therefore calculate that of that €500 48% remains, because this amount is taxed at the 52% rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u83	I think it's painful. Why was there a zero line? Why is the zero line being repaired now? We do this because, for example, high-segment rents have increased by 6.5% and people have to pay more because of inflation. The income part of the King is the pocket money part. He doesn't pay rent. He doesn't pay house charges at all. He doesn't pay for security, and he doesn't pay for his secretariat. I admit that a number of years ago the government and the Chamber thought this too easily, but I also note that the reasoning at that time leads to a result which I find socially totally undesirable. That outcome is that the King gets €44.000 net as a result of an accounting something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u84	I really think Mr Pechtold is running away from his responsibility. I don't know him like that at all. I'm really surprised. You can't just agree that that's the system; you have to follow it. The King has been on the line like everyone else in the last few years. We are getting rid of it now and Mr. Pechtold then calculates for the tenth time what that means net for the income part of the King. He's responsible for that. I'm responsible for that. We were both in opposition back then. With all the others here, we have determined this unanimously. Let me add one more thing: I'm defending it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u85	I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u86	You need anchors at a royal house. You cannot decide on a case-by-case basis on which criterion you determine the amount of the benefit to a head of state. I can't. You have to have long-term stability in that. I challenge Mr. Pechtold: a guy a guy. He said, "I'm behind it." Then he must now accept that these are the consequences. I think it can be defended, too. If you don't, you're gonna turn it into a toy ball. Then Mr Pechtold can say with tearful eyes that he finds it painful that the Prime Minister does not take responsibility for it, but I am playing that ball back. Mr Pechtold too can take responsibility for this and now say: I stand for the signature I signed. I mean it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u87	I'm being challenged. In recent years, the AZ budget has often been a boring thing. Over and over again, we have had to ask the Prime Minister's diminutive words about 'legs','stacks', 'containers', 'houses', 'boats' and so on. We shall be coming to the overruns at Huis ten Bosch in no time. In my question, last year the Prime Minister said that because of the same vulnerability it is 35 million. It's going to be 59 million. Keep up the good work. We're about to analyze the Green Draeck. In the same vulnerability, I would point out to the Prime Minister that my signature at the time states that I find the effect vulnerable and that I believe that the prime minister and the advisers should have intervened when it appeared that these were the effects. That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. So I'm gonna bounce the ball back. It's in the prime minister's office. He has the ministerial responsibility. He could have intervened. He could have made sure that the AZ budget is becoming a hammer piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u88	I do not think Mr Pechtold makes a strong statement, with all the examples he mentions. At Huis ten Bosch he has a point; I will return to that in a moment. I said earlier that I was too sure about the amount of 35 million. It just turned out to be too early to be sure. We'll be back to that in a minute. There is no doubt that we will be discussing De Groene Draeck in detail as well. That's a gift from the Dutch people. Then it was said: as long as Beatrix can use the ship as queen or princess, we do the maintenance. Then I say, guys, work that appointment out a little stylish until the end. We can look at the exact level of the amount and have counter-expertises carried out; I will return to that in a moment. I say specifically about the benefit: that is how we agreed. You can't do it differently on a case-by-case basis and say: it's too much for me, after many years of zero line, the rise is too much; now I'm going to choose another anchor. You'll make a mess of things. You can't deal with a royal house like that. I'm really referring to Alexander Pechtold as a Democrat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr Recourt, you had to wait! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u91	I don't want to make a mess of it either. So I am asking a question about something else, namely the foundations. The Prime Minister said that it contains the ability to perform the function. I know a number of foundations. We visited the Royal House Archives with the committee. I think it's eight. This is indeed about the Golden Coach, the regalia, gifts, art; I think there are also pensions for staff. Is it just those eight that are insightful at the Royal House Archive, or are there more foundations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u92	It's all those foundations that are also on the website of the Royal House. I just need to make sure I'm saying it right. They are extensively in the hangover about the finance Royal House on the site. There is also an overview of these foundations. It explains, among other things, what the purpose of the foundation is and who the directors are. The registration numbers are there. A number of foundations are further explained, for example the foundation in which the Golden Coach is housed, the Stichting Kroongoeden van het Huis Oranje-Nassau. This also applies to the foundation where the state and official gifts are placed, the Royal Gifts Foundation. This also refers to Mrs van der Burg's question. She asked me the question: can the King's budget refer to the website of the Royal House where the foundations are mentioned? I believe that the issue of foundations as such does not fit into the budgetary system, because the budget itself is not a logical place for such a reference. However, I would like to make the agreement that, through the extracompatible annex, we will make a reference to the website of the Royal House and with it to the foundations, so that these matters are connected. This is, thanks to Mr Recourt, an immediate answer to Mrs Van der Burg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u93	When it comes to taxes, it always gets really complicated, and that's not usually for nothing. So let's make it very simple. There are tax exemptions for wages and income tax, for benefits, for personal taxes on property and for succession, i.e. inheritances and donations and that sort of thing. Is it true that this is it as far as tax exemptions are concerned? That's my first question. My second question is whether these exemptions are related to the Constitution or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u94	All exemptions are set out in the Constitution. There are two that are still topical, namely that no tax is paid on the benefit and that inheritance rights are not paid on the private property inherited from the heir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u95	So if the House of Representatives wants to abolish the tax exemptions, it will have to change the Constitution, because if there is a proposal that does not change the Constitution, there is no point, because all the tax exemptions are in the Constitution. Is that how I understood the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u96	That's why I have such respect for the Socialist Party, who knows it so quickly. Absolutely, that's him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you. We now know that if there is a proposal from the Labour Party that we are not going to change the Constitution, that proposal is therefore an empty one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u98	That's right. I don't intend to. To be honest, I agreed with you, and I also believe Mr Pechtold, that this should be an initiative of the Chamber, if you wish. The government has no intentions and is not going to prepare any legislative proposals for this. But of course the Chamber is always free, as co-legislator, to make own-initiative legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you for the commitment to include it in that extracompatible annex, or whatever it is called, with a brief explanation of the main points plus a reference to the website, because the Prime Minister will hear how much confusion there is again today. Well, at least that makes sense. I also have a question to clarify the other point. The holiday homes are second homes and are therefore subject to taxation. So that's just what taxes are paid by the Royal House. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u100	This question is in line with Mr Pechtold's question when he looked so shabby and I didn't trust it for a moment. I'm getting a reaction to that. That question was also about VAT and the ozb. My suspicion is that the answer is that there is simply tax on it, but Mr Pechtold seemed to have discovered something and I want to be sure. I'm gonna get it handed to me in a minute. I hope to get back to it in this period, and I hope to do so in the second term. I think I have settled all the questions about taxes. Then, of course, we come to the issue of the Green Draeck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u101	Mrs Van der Burg still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u102	I do not agree that all tax questions would have been settled. I asked another question about inheritance tax and inheritance tax. What is the justification for exempting it from the head of state to the heir?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u103	Sure. Apologies. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u104	This point is very briefly explained in the evaluation. I really want a clearer explanation for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u105	Yes. I'll explain exactly what's going on. All members of the Royal House are liable for donation and inheritance tax on their donations and inheritances, except the King and his successor. That was chosen for reasons of maintenance of assets. In this case, movable property, for example, is a matter which is also at the service of the king, for the sake of a financially independent position of the King. When Princess Juliana and Prince Bernhard died, this meant that three of the four daughters owed tax on the inheritance; only then Queen Beatrix was exempt. There is an exemption from donation and inheritance tax for what the King or his suspected successor obtains under inheritance law or by gift from a member of the Royal House. This is regulated by the Constitution. The reason for this has to do with keeping together the movable property that is at the service of the kingship and which gives the King independence as much as possible. It also depends on the fact that a noble family is at the head of the State. Apart from real estate, this includes a certain amount of movable property. I already referred to it. In my view, this justifies this exemption from only this donation and inheritance tax for the King and his suspected successor. That is why we want to maintain that exemption. So it is not the property tax, but the inheritance tax, the gift and inheritance tax. I would, however, like to assure Mrs van der Burg that, in the 2017 budget, we are going to go into this in more detail in the explanatory statement. Then I can explain a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u106	Seems like a year's wait is a little over the top. I'd just like to get this soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u107	I just explained. What I have just said here will be included in the 2017 budget. For now, you can read it back in the Acts. I understand Mrs van der Burg in such a way that she wants to have a lot of things to do with the King intelligible and that she wants to understand why we do things. Everyone should be able to understand that. She understands it as a spokesperson of course, but I am also concerned about the wider public. That's what I heard. Then I think it will help if we explain it further in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thanks for the answer. I'm gonna chew on it, as we say in the Chamber. This must be very clear, so that misunderstandings about who has exemption and who is not removed, because that is not a good picture. I am going to give some thought to whether this particular exemption is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u109	Again, there is only an exemption from donation and inheritance tax for what the King or his suspected successor obtains under inheritance law or by gift from a member of the Royal House. That is settled in the Constitution, nothing else. I'm getting to the Green Draeck. I think it is our honor to not work out and finish the deal that was made in 1957, but now try to dive for it. An expert agency has been hired, the Kersten Experts agency, which has looked at the cost of maintenance. Of course, it is not a target budget. If less maintenance is needed and less costs are incurred, then the DOD loses less money. It has nothing to do with defense tariffs. This is what the external expert says. I can also see that the amounts are reasonable. I'm not an expert at all. I've sailed about ten times in my entire life, let alone have a ship like that. It is not true that wine and other snacks would be paid for on board, as has been said. Let me take away that rumor, too. It's really about maintenance costs. I cannot use Mr Van Raak's report because, of course, they have never been able to look specifically at this ship. I can imagine that, following the Kerst report, we will have an independent party look again at the annual work to be carried out and at the intensity with which that should be done. I say this also in response to the concerns expressed by Mrs Van der Burg in her first term. Let's do that. We can all talk here as half experts and some as whole experts. I assume Mr Pechtold has some of those ships. I don't have one, so I'm completely ignorant. We really need to sail on the experts. Let an independent party look again at both the level of the costs of the annual work to be carried out and the intensity of that work. I will then inform the Chamber about this and I will also add my conclusions. That's my practical suggestion. Otherwise, we're gonna go through things like the paint layers and the question of how often you have to paint. I do not believe that we are doing each other a favour, but I see that Mr Pechtold, armed to the teeth, intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u110	But Mr Van Raak was first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u111	It's gonna be a weird night. As a socialist, I am in favour of having that lemsterak maintained by a company, and the Prime Minister as a Liberal is in favour of having the government do so. In this case, the Prime Minister is right that government maintenance is much more expensive, namely three times more expensive. The SP has had Sailcharter Friesland, a specialised company that wants to do it for this amount and has looked at all aspects. I also submitted that offer to the Prime Minister. He said, no, it has to be for $95,000. I then referred the Prime Minister's reaction back to Sailcharter Friesland. On the basis of the Prime Minister's response, the company has said that it may be cheaper. What's the point of being expensive when it's cheap? Why bother when you can do better?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u112	Defense has maintained the ship from the beginning, since 1957. Defence must rely on market-based tariffs under the Market and Government Act. Labour costs are, of course, the largest cost item. Therefore, the company Kersten Experts, renowned in ship and mechanical engineering and recognized valuer, has been asked what the cost of this should be. It is quite conceivable, of course, that another party should come to another valuation; hence I have proposed to ask for a second opinion. Nevertheless, all these companies will, in particular, have to make assumptions about costs and the level of maintenance required for the multi-annual maintenance. In addition, a royal yacht naturally brings with it a number of special elements in terms of maintenance. They must also be taken into account in the tenders. This certainly does not rule out the fact that another party is judging it differently. So it is not the case that the Defence Department says: we want to get to this amount. Defence must operate under the Market and Government Act on the basis of a mark-compliant rate. If such an evaluation would show that it could be cheaper, that would be fine. Let's take a look at that. That is why, once again, my proposal to request such a second opinion is to see if it is reasonable, what the intensity should be, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u113	Thank you very much for that commitment. I'm very happy about that, with a second opinion. Even though we've already had a few, they said we could do it for a third. Why is it so expensive in the Navy? I think it's for a number of reasons. The Navy company can maintain a lot of ships well: warships, but not lemsteraken. That's just not what the Navy company specializes in. The Prime Minister then says it has to be the Navy company because of security and privacy. It seems hard to me that if the lemstaraak for maintenance is in a locked room there would be problems with security, let alone with privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u114	And the question is? I didn't hear that one. Is there any doubt as to whether the finding is correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u115	Then the Minister must pay more attention. I asked why it should be in the Navy company, whereas the Navy company is far from specialising in this type of business and, for example, specialised companies in the maintenance of lemsteraks. The prime minister says it should be with the Navy company because of security and privacy. If such a lemur beast is maintained in a warehouse in a sealed and heated warehouse, as is the case with all companies.... how can there be a problem with security, let alone with privacy? The family isn't going to be in a warehouse on the Green Draeck in the winter, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u116	Of course, that's not the point. The point is that there can be no unauthorized access to the ship and could disable it. That's the point. I'm not a security expert. None of us are, so let us not give that impression. Here too, what applied to the previous subject: the royal allowance. I'd like to have that marked anyway. We are all pursuing policies here that we have all made. If we consider the royal allowance to be too high, we must therefore come up with proposals to amend the law or to amend the budget. If there is any objection to the way in which we agreed the arrangement with the then Crown Princess in 1957, then the Chamber must say what it wants. But I think it's crazy. I'd be against it, because we're just on a steady course here, too. That ship is in maintenance with the Defense Department from the very beginning, indeed for the reasons mentioned by Mr Van Raak. I wouldn't want to deviate from that either, but I think it's reasonable to see if this estimate, this quote from Kersten Experts, is the right one on the basis of those market-based rates that need to be applied. We can look into that. However, we cannot be guided by the offer of the SP, because the person who made the offer did not have access to the ship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u117	Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u118	This is not a quote from the SP, but a quote from a specialist company: Sailcharter Friesland. We shouldn't make it bigger than it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u119	That's what I'd like to suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u120	Definitely not financially. However, the Prime Minister should not pretend that there is a whole budgetary system behind this. This is just a choice: who's gonna support it. I'm glad the Prime Minister has promised a second opinion. Does that include the question of whether this maintenance should necessarily be carried out by the Navy company, which is not at all designed to maintain this type of ship, and what exactly would be the problem with security, let alone privacy, if that lemsterak for maintenance is inside a sealed warehouse?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u121	I would like to assure Mr Van Raak that if I give my appreciation of the second opinion at the level and intensity of the interview, I will explain again why it was chosen to do it with the Defense Department. Perhaps I can make that commitment and that will help the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u122	The Prime Minister has been making a habit of starting every time about the situation of my constituents or my personal situation. I'm just going to add that I'd know about those boats because I'd have them myself. I think it's serious and I find it painful. That's why I have questions about De Groene Draeck. Can the Prime Minister tell me why we need to paint every year on the hull with antifouling and lacquering, a raison of €26,820? This means that, apart from all the other coats of round wood and batter, that boat or ship will be painted for €27,000. €1,200 will be spent on the inspection of the sailing wardrobe. Can the Prime Minister tell me why we should have the southwesters and oil suits inspected at taxpayers' expense? I'm just saying, it's painful. Last year there was €50,000 worth of maintenance on that ship, now for €95,000. It used to be just private property and now for a few years it has suddenly been housed at the regalia, at the Golden Coach and that sort of thing. Either it was Princess Beatrix, and then it is now also of the retired queen, or it is part of the performance of the function. Today, however, we read at the NOS that we already have a royal boat, which has already been launched. In this time, restraint fits where it should be, and royal where it can be. We are now talking about the maintenance of €95,000 a year in a boat in '57 for a long and weeks because the Prime Minister says: I am defending it, because it is the case. I find that extremely painful. That is why I ask why the inspection of oil suits costs €1,200 a year, and why the annual painting of that boat costs €27,000. I'm just talking about the hull. The round woods and the painting fittings cost €2,450 extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u123	Once again, it appears that Mr Pechtold has no knowledge of ships either. Well, that's cleared up. I apologize for the insinuation. That wasn't very nice of me. I don't know about ships.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u124	Now I'm making a point of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u125	No, I'm just finishing up the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u126	No, I'm just making a point of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u127	Wait a minute. Mr Pechtold, you can make it a personal fact. We then mark that as such and there is no further discussion about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u128	Why I just said "painful" and why I'm making it a personal fact now is that I don't like this. I find it annoying to have to split this up to make my point, when I get added first that I will know because I will have a boat of my own, and now it is said that I will not know about it. I find that uncomfortable. I am sorry that we have to have this debate in this way, but apparently I have to do so as an auditor, as a representative of the people. I am, in fact, painfully high in the amounts involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u129	This personal fact is as such recorded in the Acts. I ask the Prime Minister to comment on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u130	Certainly, I was just trying to apologize for the suggestion that Mr Pechtold has two ships. That was a bit of a joke, wasn't it? When making the apology, I offended him again, and I didn't mean to. My point is, at least I don't know about ships. Let me keep it to myself. I note that the ship was far before my birth, and I also thought far before the birth of Mr Pechtold, a gift was made to the then Crown Princess. It was said that we are not only giving the ship a present as long as you can sail on it, but we are also going to pay for the maintenance. That maintenance was moved to the Department of Defense from the beginning. Defence must then operate on the basis of market-based tariffs, under the Market and Government Act, which we have created here. She has asked a renowned company what is real to do with maintenance and what is real to charge for it. I see those amounts, too. They're pretty big. We all do. At least I don't know about it, so I have to go on expert judgements like this. Indeed: it was €50,000 or €60,000. It turned out that we still had to make a post-payment over the past few years, because there appeared to be deficits in that pot. That is why we said: give up such a rate that we do not have to make post payments. I'm actually asking the Chamber for two things. The first is to acknowledge that our predecessors and the Dutch people have given this ship a gift. I don't even know if the Chamber had a part in that. At least that ship was once gifted, including maintenance. I ask the Chamber simply to do this fairly and neatly and then to say to each other: expertise is there or not, but let us ask another objective party what is real. I have already told Mr Van Raak that I also want to identify the reasons why the defence is doing the maintenance. I think that makes sense. So I'm not defending all those individual jars. Again, I know as much about it as most here. We must be able to sail here on independent experts in order to meet an old agreement that was made in 1957. The last thing I want to do is argue with Alexander Pechtold about that. We do have other subjects to argue about: Europe and just a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u131	There is one question that remains open in this commitment: the Chamber would like to be informed of this as soon as possible and not only on the next budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u132	Obviously before. My proposal is that we ask for that second opinion and that I send it to the Chamber with an appreciation. I would also like to comment on the point made by Mr Pechtold in connection with the Kroongoeden Foundation, which I understand very well. It's not in there because it's part of those crown goods. That's what it got into once for a reason that I can't exactly figure out. You may indeed wonder if that is the most logical place. Maybe you should go to a separate foundation. I'd like to investigate that, too. Maybe I should also make a commitment to see if it makes sense to create a separate foundation. You have to imagine that the maintenance of the ship would expire if Princess Beatrix stopped using it at any time. But then you have to look again at how as the Netherlands you prevent very ordinary things from happening with this very special object or things that do not fit the dignity with which the ship has been used so far. That is also why it is now in the Kroongoeden Foundation. That doesn't mean it's part of it, but I understand the confusion. I also saw it in an article by Frits Wester on RTL's website. So it's very possible that you put that in a separate foundation. Finally, Mrs Van der Burg asked about De Groene Draeck: would it not be possible to refer to the defence budget in the annex to the budget, which estimates these expenditures? So, how do you make it clear? This fits in with the common thread in her argument: how do you ensure that all expenses around the royal house are brought together? That expenditure is not now included in that annex, but the annex to the King's budget refers to the defence budget. I can imagine that we will look again very closely at how we make De Groene Draeck visible in it, as long as that maintenance is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u133	I am sensitive to the argument that the Prime Minister has now used a few times: a deal is a deal. The then princess got that gift when she turned 18, with the agreement: for the maintenance will be paid. But is it true that Princess Beatrix took on extra maintenance costs a few years ago when it was our queen in 2010, 2011?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u134	Sure. There is another special component on the regular maintenance; it turned out that we had not budgeted enough with each other, which meant that there had to be a post-payment. That is why the amount went to €95.000. At that time there was also a very large maintenance. That has happened once since the ship existed. That very big maintenance she paid for herself. That has happened once since 1957.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u135	It is therefore not unreasonable, in itself, to have one conversation and to ask if there could be an own contribution if the maintenance costs are well above the average. That should always be discussed. Anyway, the Prime Minister made a commitment. There's gonna be a second opinion. We will come back to it at a later date, because I think we really must avoid having too many discussions of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u136	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u137	It wouldn't help anyone at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u138	"I couldn't agree more" with Mr. Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you for the commitment at my request for a second opinion on the level of maintenance and the realistic level of maintenance. We do this to see, for example, whether it is necessary to paint every year, but there may also be other examples. But I'm not an expert. I'd like to leave that to the experts. We must also look at the real cost level, given the difference in those offers. So thank you for that. I was also standing here asking about the attachment, but I have now been served. I am glad that this will also be made transparent, because we need to get rid of the kind of images that are being hidden away. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you to Mrs Van der Burg. There were still a few points on taxation. There was another question about insurance. Those are not taxes, of course, but also insurances for, for example, the Palace of Noordeinde, the crockery, means of transport and the staff, which are financed from Article 2 of the King's budget on the basis of the Royal House Financial Statute Act. There is just VAT paid, also on the speedboat. I thought Mr Pechtold asked that question. With regard to the ozb, I can say that the palaces are of course made available by the State. This means that the owner pays the owner's share of that in business use, which is at issue. In the case of palaces, a user part of the DKH is also charged by the municipalities. Amsterdam doesn't do that for the Royal Palace on Dam Square. The Hague does so for Huis ten Bosch and Noordeinde Palace. That user part is charged to Article 2 of the budget, on the basis of the Royal House Financial Statute Act. Those were a few points that were still there when we were just talking about duty-free. I think they've been answered with this. I come to the great maintenance at the palaces. This has been discussed before. Mrs van der Burg (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs van der Burg on her excellent report. Mr President, I should like to ask you a few questions about this tonight. She asked: how could you make this visible for a long time? I believe that Mr Slob has spoken about this before and, in the case of a previous budget debate, Mr Van Ojik at the time. How do you make this clear? I'll just say right away that this is complicated. The palaces are national monuments and are therefore financed from the Housing and National Service budget. The same applies to the monumental buildings in which the High Colleges of State are housed, such as that of this High College of State, of which the MPs are members. In my letter of 19 June, I wrote to the Chamber that making reservations for major maintenance to palaces affects the entire system of those High Colleges. We've been looking at how we could do it. I think this is what we should do. You can increase the predictability of large maintenance of palaces by setting up a multi-annual plan. This planning will then be included in the budget of Wonen and Rijksdienst and the annex will then be added to the King's budget. The planning will then indicate when studies are taking place and when necessary renovations will have to be carried out. In my view, the problem of the budget's peak tax should be solved by using the loan facility. We also do this with other renovations. This will enable spending to be spread over several years by means of reimbursement via a user fee. The coverage is organised through regular budget moments and accounted for to the Chamber at the time when it is decided to renovate. If we do so, I believe that I can achieve maximum and multiannual transparency and thereby promote predictability without violating the system of the cash system, on the basis of which the government works. I believe that I can best answer what I discussed earlier with Mr Slob and with then MP Van Ojik and now Mrs Van der Burg's question. I come to the problem of the renovation of Huis ten Bosch. I have already reported it in the media before and I think I have already mentioned it in the Chamber once before, but I will say it again in abundance: I was just too sure when I mentioned the amount of 35 million. What has happened since that moment in the treatment of the 2015 state budget? Technical research has been carried out, which showed that there was more asbestos in the palace and that the roof, chimney and platform stairs were in a worse state than expected. As a result, the estimated cost was 41.5 million. It was also found that the state of maintenance of the middle part and the Hague wing was worse than was previously foreseen and that the renovation of those parts of the palace should take place no later than ten years. The cost was estimated at 32 million, bringing the total cost to 73.5 million. At that time, I looked at it again, also with the colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst and the Minister for Finance. I said, "You'd better do it at once." At once the entire renovation of the palace will cost 59 million euros, based on the price level on delivery. So that's lower than if you did it staged. The total renovation will now take 40 months. It is expected to be completed by the end of 2018. These funds have proved fit in the budget, to be financed from the State real estate company's own funds. So we did not have to look for additional funds elsewhere. Anyone who says I was too firm last year is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u141	I'm glad the Prime Minister says that last equestrian. That is why we asked for it last year, and that is why I was glad that he said: this is it and it is not going to be any more. I still notice three things. First of all: so can an estimated square meter price of €4,000 last year suddenly rise to €6,500? Secondly, why was asbestos mentioned last year as one of the reasons why the amount was so high, i.e. 35 million, and why is asbestos now mentioned as a setback and also cited as an explanation for the 59 million? Thirdly, last year it was said 'it is the whole palace' and it was assumed that a certain number of square meters were used, this year it is said 'it was only half a building; we are doing the other side next to the Hague and the Wassenaar side', but there is still the same surface price. Those are three things that still amaze me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u142	The last part doesn't add up. Last year it was about the Wassenaar wing. The rest would be staged. That's one. Secondly, Mr Pechtold is right that asbestos was already included in the calculations, but it turned out to be much more. In addition, the roof, chimneys and platform stairs appear to be much worse than we thought, bringing the estimate of 35 million to 41.5 million. Then there's the question about the square meter price. The renovation as it was at the time concerned the living wing and the technical installations throughout the palace. Again, the 35 million went over the living wing, the Wassenaar part and the technical installation in the palace. We then chose to look at what is common from the bandwidth. Then you come up between €4,000 and €5,000 per square meter. We thought then, because it was about the living wing, that we could do it with €4,000 per square meter. Based on a gross floor area of nearly 9,000 m, that figure amounted to 35 million. We now have the entire detail. Additional studies have also shown that the necessary technical maintenance is much larger than previously assumed. That's what made that price go up. That's the explanation. Last year the 35 million involved the Wassenaar part and the technical installations of the whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u143	I still find it strange that, if it was known last year that there was asbestos in it and that was already included at that time,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u144	It was much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u145	...it could be even more disappointing. Anyway, I'll give it to you. Then I find something strange, and I'd like to get an explanation. We're talking about a palace. They're similar cases. I assume the services have experience with that. I find it strange that you go from an estimate of €4,000 to €4,500, which is quite similar to the price, to €6,500 the meter. Then there is my final point. Either we don't understand each other, or we talk past each other. Just because only the Wassenaar side, half a palace, was mentioned last year, surprises me that in the calculations the same area is calculated at half a palace as at a whole palace.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u146	I'm gonna have to check on that last one. I didn't measure it myself. I will answer the other questions. The increase from 35 million to 41.5 million is due to increased asbestos, roof and chimneys. I would also point out that the last serious restoration of the palace took place between 1950 and 1956. When Princess Beatrix decided to move to The Hague after acceptance of the kingship, there was maintenance, but no fundamental maintenance. So we simply have to establish that the case is very critical. It has all been painted up and updated occasionally, but take for example the bridge staircase on which Mr Pechtold once stood and myself twice. I won't say that we got off with good luck, but it's really bad. It is a good thing that we are now behind that and can tackle it fundamentally. Then, of course, the total renovation costs of the entire building increase. So we can reduce them somewhat by doing it in one go and not in two, because that would increase costs to 73.5 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u147	I feel that under this renovation we are going to draw a line, but I want to make one more point clear. Last year the square meter price was calculated on half of the palace; now it's about an entire palace. It doesn't have to be in detail right now, but I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u148	In second term, we'll do that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u149	...the square meters and the price.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u150	Is that possible? I'm gonna take a look at my officials. That's gonna work in second term, I see. I would like to mention two more issues relating to the monarchy. I'll start with the Golden Coach. It is the first time that this type of large maintenance takes place. As we know, it was an inauguration gift from the inhabitants of Amsterdam to Queen Wilhelmina in 1898. The stamp collectors know the inauguration stamp, with a slightly larger 1 than the regular stamp of 1 guilder, but well. In addition, there was the Golden Coach. The restoration of the Golden Coach is captured within Article 2 of the King's budget. From the material budget of the Royal House Service, expenses are made for the maintenance of the fleet, such as cars, horses and carriages. The restoration of the Golden Coach is covered within this regular budget. Even if it would cost more than expected, this would happen within the regular budget. I say this in response to Mrs van der Burg's question. I come to the opening of palaces. May I first of all point out that a great deal has been opened up? I call it the Royal Palace in Amsterdam. The Old Town Hall is also a palace with a public function and museum function, which is accessible. Museum Palace The Loo and Soestdijk Palace are accessible palaces with a public function and museum function. The Orange Room of the House of Bosch Palace is now temporarily open until the end of this year. This includes the extension, which is possible because House ten Bosch is not currently in use. Preparations are being made for major maintenance and renovation; we have just talked about this. Then this becomes the living and working palace for the king and queen Máxima. In addition, to meet the great public interest, a film footage of the Oranjezaal and Huis ten Bosch are made available to everyone via the internet as a virtual tour. Via Google Street View you can see the Royal Palace of Amsterdam and the Oranjezaal and are expected to see Noordeinde Palace, the Royal House Archive and the Royal Stables at the beginning of next year. The Crown Domain is open all year round, with the exception of the period of fauna management. For security reasons, it will be closed. The Royal House Archive and the Royal Stal Department are both part of the Palace Noordeinde complex and are accessible under conditions, for example to the group chairman of D66 and colleagues who have been there. The King's Office in The Hague is open every year on Open Monument Day. You will then be welcomed by the Director and on special occasions, as at the Constitutional Festival last year. In general, therefore, it can be argued that public buildings can be opened up if justified for use, maintenance, vulnerability of spaces, security, privacy and working conditions. Against this background, I can tell you that I am not in favour of opening House ten Bosch as well. That's just a place to live. It is in fact one corridor with rooms on one side and sometimes on two sides, where the king, the queen and the royal family live. It is quite impossible to open up some of them. Then Noordeinde Palace. The word palace sounds like it's beautiful; I think it's not so bad. It's not for nothing that former Queen Wilhelmina said after the war: why is it still there? Noordeinde Palace is just a work palace; it's just an office. I do not think it is possible for all the staff of the Royal House to take all kinds of guided tours there. The one about the monarchy, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u151	Not quite yet, I guess. Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u152	I'll do it briefly so that the Prime Minister can prepare himself. I asked another question about 7.5 tons of phone charges.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u153	I'll answer that question in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u154	I asked another question about Greece. I asked if the security and scaffolding costs have been kept within the budget and if there was any need to buy such a fast speedboat for security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u155	You will receive an answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u156	Finally, here's what I'm gonna say. On 16 January 2012, we received a letter from the Crown Prince that the villa in Mozambique would be abandoned. My question is whether the royal couple, the princely couple, had been at that villa in Mozambique since that date. I thought we closed that file, but it turned out to be me that that villa is still being visited. If those are rumors, I'm happy to hear it, because then it's out of the world too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u157	I don't know about that, and I don't want to know about that. I am now going to say something to the Chamber on the basis of the information provided by the Vice President of the Council of State Tjeenk Willink in 2011. It is not only my job to ensure that the ministerial responsibility towards the King is fulfilled in public office, but that I am also obliged to protect the private domain of the royal family. That's what I do here. So where they're going on vacation, I don't even want to know. If they happen to tell me, it's beautiful, but I don't need to know. I think it is very important that, if this family also wants a little privacy, we do not discuss what they are going to do in private. It was relevant at that time given the fact that the house in Mozambique gradually became a whole thing. That's why the letter, from then on the Crown Prince, came about the sale et cetera. I understand all that, and given the history of the dossier, I get it, but whether or not they are on holiday in Mozambique or in neighbouring countries, we are not talking about that. Now let's really leave that in the private sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u158	In general, I agree with the Prime Minister, but his ministerial responsibility lasts 24 hours a day. It was quite a hassle that Mozambique was, but the reason for rejecting it was also mentioned as a reason, also because of the then princely couple of things. It was a corrupt thing around Mozambique. That could have security risks. At all, safety and security were a high cost and the same applies to medical care. There was then talk that there should be a ship off the coast to in case of... So you can't say that if the royal family goes on vacation there now, this falls outside the ministerial responsibility. My interest is limited very quickly, but because it had this history... I also do not ask for Argentina, wherever one owns, probably family property, and goes on holiday, but Mozambique is sensitive. We were told then that it would be disposed of. Then we were told that it was still housed in a foundation because it was difficult to sell. I'd like to know if we can put a line under that whole Machangulo right now. This raises the question of whether the family is still going there, because then the aspects of safety, health care and the costs that come with it would be relevant. So I'd like to get an answer to my question anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u159	The house has been abandoned. That's one. Two: once again, where the family goes on vacation, I am tight in that, with in the beating the excellent information of Tjeenk Willink, then vice president of the Council of State. We discussed this at length at that time. It is not only my job to take ministerial responsibility and answer to the Chamber, but I am also obliged to protect the private sphere at certain times. I really do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u160	Yeah, but I just told you why I think that because of the history...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u161	I'll include that in my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u162	Yeah, but then we still think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u163	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u164	Given the history, but mainly because of the argumentation, it would be an annoying situation that the property has been disposed of, but the use is there and the only difference is that there is no ownership anymore. Otherwise, they could have kept it. If one was sensitive at the time to the argument that it was not sensible and made this choice, then I think that this should be done de facto in practice. We cannot say now: if we use it, rent it or whatever, then that is a different situation. No, the argument then concerned security, corruption of that province, health care, possible treatment, evacuation etc. Those were important arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u165	I have no reason to believe that the king did not do what he brought out. Furthermore, I really stick to the previous answer. I now come to a number of questions addressed to the General Affairs Department. I shall begin with the unity of government policy. It gives the impression that the whole budget of General Affairs is going to the National Information Service. I can say that this is not the case, because, of course, a lot of other things are happening in this department. I also agree with those who believe that, among other things, Mr Slob pointed out in this debate that public communication has the general interest and not the specific political interest of the govern ment concerned. We know a tradition of official appointments in the Netherlands, in which we do not look at the party political colour. As far as I am concerned, this applies in particular to communication staff and spokesmen of directors. My perception is that those are of high quality. There is a sharp separation between public communication and party-political information. I'll do it myself. If I go to a party meeting, it is really unthinkable that the National Information Service should support me in this. For this type of activity and the party contacts, a political adviser shall be available to each member of the board if he so wishes. I think it's an important tradition and I have no reason to want to change that. That is also not changed with the reorganisation of BZK, as has been suggested here and there. The communication of the government is not intertwined with party political interests. We have good people who really serve public communication from the public interest. That's exactly how we should do it. As far as the unity of government policy is concerned, the constitutional task of promoting the unity of policy naturally means that there must be as much uniformity as possible in the speech of directors. This is achieved through the joint preparation of decision-making and general and special agreements in the field of communication and speech. Of course, the Ministry of General Affairs supports this. If necessary, there will also be political intervention. Sent heavily. The unity of government policy is very important. Then I come to the issue of the documents for Princess Day, unless Mr Slob is not alone in the interrupting microphone to stretch his legs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u166	You can combine that sometimes. I asked an informative question about the number of informers running around all those ministries. There's a lot of different numbers going around. I think the Prime Minister is responsible for everything. Can he inform us about that? And can he explain to me exactly what's going on at the Home Office when it comes to communication? We understand that this is being combined. There has been the impression that some things have been mixed up in policy education and more political information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u167	The latter is not the case. In 2011, 608.1 fte worked in the field of the Communications Directorates of the core departments. That shrunk by 20%. In the last poll it was 495.9 fte. Within it, the proportion of words/press information has decreased from 100.1 to 87.3 FTE. So from the departments 87.3 people are engaged in speech/press information. And that was over 100.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u168	87.3 on all ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u169	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u170	That's information we wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u171	It's my job to give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u172	Then I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u173	Then there are the questions about Prince's Day. We have experimented a great deal with the best way of doing things. I believe that the form we now have in making it available under embargo is the best form. I am not in favour of sending the budgets to the Chamber earlier, because the coherence between the budgets has to be reviewed. Moreover, I think it is important to make the Throne speech the instrument for presenting this coherence. Would you do it sooner, would you bring your pieces out sooner, then the character of the Throne speech would change and the Throne speech would be given a much more political charge, which is at odds with the impartiality of the Head of State, who by the nature of the matter already brings a Throne speech that is the color of the sitting cabinet. You should not make that even worse by giving the Throne speech an even more political content. That would be the direct consequence of the earlier release of pieces. I agree with Mr Van Raak that it is a bad thing when pieces leak out. Wherever that can be done, I will take action. I did that last time, of course. Mr Van Raak asked why I wouldn't have a criminal investigation. I have previously written to the Chamber that the circle of those involved in drafting this type of document is so large that it makes no sense at all and is impossible to carry out a criminal investigation into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u174	I rarely get really angry, but I do now. The Prime Minister fooled us, because we had to sign off on secrecy, and shirt the King, because he had to spread old news on Prince's Day. This has not been done from the opposition, but from the prime minister's ministries. That's his responsibility. And he's not doing anything. He says: yes, an investigation while so many people are involved... No, if there is one process in the Netherlands in which you know exactly who has what information, then it is the process of drawing up the budget. I'm not gonna let the Prime Minister get away with idle talk. The Prime Minister is going to act or resign.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u175	Again, I have spoken about it on other occasions. I fully agree with Mr Van Raak that it is a bad thing when pieces leak out. At the request of Mr Van Raak, I have spoken with the Chamber on this matter on a number of occasions. We believe that it should not happen. Many people are involved in drawing up the documents around Prince's Day. This means that there is no point in carrying out a criminal investigation into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u176	I'm making it very concrete. Are parts of plans, forms of information shared with certain groups in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u177	It is always the case that as a cabinet you seek support, at least among the coalition groups. That's inevitable, but that doesn't mean they get pieces. It means that you are checking in the run-up to drawing up the budget. We have done so on several occasions with the political groups which supported the October 2013 budget agreement. That is the normal parliamentary and political work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u178	While I, from the opposition, have to sign off on keeping plans secret, the Prime Minister here admits that these plans, proposals in concept, are shared with other MPs. Is that why the Prime Minister says that so many people have plans and that there can be no investigation? I would then like to ask the President because there is an opportunity for investigation. The leaks are from the Tower or here from the coalition. We'll have a new situation. It is not only a matter for the Prime Minister who does not want anything at all, but also becomes a matter for the House of Representatives itself. Does the Prime Minister exclude that leaks can also come from political groups or MPs? If it isn't, the Chamber can investigate itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u179	That seems unlikely to me, because we do not share budgetary texts with political groups. When drawing up a budget, even if only because of the multi-annual view from the 2012 government agreement and the 2013 budget agreement, we naturally have discussions with political groups. We are talking about numbers and adjustments, not concrete texts. When I talk about the broad circle of those involved, I do not mean the parliamentary groups or their members, but the many officials and politicians, in the cabinet and around them, who are involved. That is such a large circle that criminal investigations do not make sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u180	For the Acts, I think it is important to note that Mr Van Raak was very angry about leaks, far before the Chamber had those documents in its possession. Those pieces couldn't have come from the official channels. So there's no investigative power for me either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u181	On this point, otherwise there will be a misunderstanding. So I am not suggesting that the leak comes from the parliamentary groups. I think that if there is leaking, this happens in that very large circle of people who are preparing the pieces. That circle is so large that there is no point in carrying out criminal investigations. That is my position, and I wrote it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u182	The Prime Minister, when drawing up budgets per minute, almost knows who has what information when. I don't see this as an impossibility to do research, but as an unwillingness of the Prime Minister to do research. I do not think he dares to stand on certain toes; I think he does not want to step on certain coalition members or politicians, because he may know where the wind is coming from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u183	I really leave this on Mr Van Raak's behalf. I have given my answer to my conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u184	The leak is of all times, but it was really embarrassing this year. It has even led to a debate in the Chamber being shut down, because one of the coalition spokesmen began to speak without concern about all kinds of things that would only be brought out on Prince's Day. So it's gone wrong in the Chamber once too. I have the impression that the Prime Minister is now taking a bit of a stand. It's The Hague disease, so to speak. It was so bad that our king was reading a eulogy of the throne with the new policy that had nothing new in it at all. It is also in the direction of our king not neat what happened. We know that in other countries there are other ways of communicating with a parliament when a cabinet has adopted a budget. The Chamber made an overview of this once; this was the De Wijkerslooth Committee. Is the Prime Minister prepared to see if it could be otherwise and to inform the House of this in the spring? There is no need to record any outcome. It is a question of looking at whether we can prevent the leak and whether we can also do justice to the information position to which the Chamber is entitled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u185	I'd like to tear those two apart. I agree with Mr Slob, Mr Van Raak and others that leaking is a bad thing. This undermines the whole process around Princess Day and gives certain parties an unfair lead in that debate. In addition, there is the question of how to deal with the Prince's Daypieces. I have strong views on that. I don't think they should go public until Princess Day. We have chosen, in consultation with the Presidents of the Chamber, to give the documents to the Chamber under embargo on Friday, so that the General Political Reviews can take place following Princess's Day and not only a week later, as has been the case for a number of years. The nice thing about that is that you also keep that three-day flow in it. That's why we chose that form. There are two other possibilities; let me peel them off immediately as I would do in that letter that I should write in spring. You can make the budget chapters public when they're done. We have looked at that idea and rejected it, because you are moving between budgets until the last minute. When one budget is finished and you move on to the next, it will have an effect on each other again. You actually have to wait until the last budget is done. Then it has to go to the Council of State et cetera. The second possibility is to make everything public on Friday, not under embargo. You could do that. That too has been considered, but I did not, in the end, choose to do so, because I think it changes the character of the Throne speech in such a way that it becomes vulnerable to state law. If everything is public and known, it would mean that the throne speech would have an even more political character than it already has. Of course, the eulogy of the throne always has a political character, because the incumbent coalition has to sign for that eulogy. Now it is mainly an announcement of measures, but if all is known, the throne speech will have to be much more a coherent story with a deepening political charge. I find that vulnerable given the constitutional position of the monarchy. I rejected that second thought for that reason. These are actually the two models from which you could then choose: make every budget public or make everything public on Friday. I fell back on Friday's variant, but I fell under embargo. That's the way you deal with it. I'd like to disconnect it from leaking, because whatever you choose, there can always be leaking. At some point, decision-making takes place and you can leak if you want to, even if you choose to make budgets public by piece. It's just a disease we need to get rid of because it's harmful. But I do not think you will solve this with another publication schedule for the budget documents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u186	As soon as the cabinet has finished its decision-making, the documents must be sent to the printer. There is a lot of time over that and that is often the time when all kinds of topics often come out. It even seems to be directed sometimes. This year, for example, there was a ministry that stood on top of one when it came to what was leaking. It is precisely this intermediate period that is most vulnerable when it comes to leaking. The minister says it is vulnerable to the throne speech to let pieces, when they are ready, go to the Chamber, the press and whoever wants to take notice of them. Why would that be? It could also be an enormous boost for the speech of the throne, because sometimes, with all due respect, it seems to be ticking off from all the different ministries for a while. In other words, the government could come up with a more visionary story on Princess Day. In my opinion, it is also a gain for the cabinet if the speech of the throne is a broader consideration and not just the passing of all subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u187	That's the Wouter Bos variant. He suggested this a few years ago. This variant has absolutely its charm and if we had a presidential system, I would certainly be in favour of it. I find it vulnerable in a constitutional monarchy, because there is a difference between a throne speech that basically identifies measures with coherence between them and a throne speech that brings the more coherent and visionary story when all the measures are already known. That second speech would be even more political than the first. Much more political! On the continuum from political to political it is already a lot further. So it would bring the monarch even more into the political realm than it is dragged by the way in which the throne speech is taking place now. The current system is acceptable, because it falls under ministerial responsibility and fits in with Dutch traditions. If you continue on that continuum, it becomes vulnerable. It then becomes increasingly difficult to explain that it is not the view of the King but the view of the Cabinet. This can still be done somewhat if it is a list of measures that are consistent, but not if the measures are already known and it is only the coherence with the greater vision of the coalition behind them. That is easier if it is a coalition with left-wing and right-wing parties, but if it is a cabinet like that that I was allowed to lead, a cabinet that was entirely on the centre-right flank, then such a speech will be even more polarizing with respect to other political parties. That's inevitable by its nature, and I don't think you should drag the King in there. That is the view I have and you can discuss it. It is my view on ministerial responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u188	If this is the conclusion, it means that we all find it incredibly bad and annoying that there is leaking but that it remains a recurring thing. Mr Van Raak has been moving forward every year as long as he sits in the Chamber to say a few words about that. I must say that I find that very unsatisfactory and bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u189	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u190	I also find this annoying where the king is placed in a certain position when he has to give a more flatter speech on the throne, a speech in which there is no news at all. I do not need to get a response from the Prime Minister tonight, but could we not take a moment to discuss this with each other during the year? This will enable us to see if we can get somewhere, because the current situation is not satisfactory, I repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u191	Then I'll send a letter to the Chamber stating what I just told you. I'm willing to do that, by the way. We can also discuss it separately, partly because Mr Slob and I may not fully agree on one point at the moment. Mr Slob combines leaking with the publication moment of documents. My view is a different one. Whatever moment of publication of documents you choose, the leaking will always be the moment of publication less so many days or weeks. If this is the moment of publication, there will be a leak, and if the moment of publication is there, it will be leaked at the latest until this moment, namely when the information is still up-to-date. I think it is my job to limit that as much as possible. Last time I didn't have enough success in this task. I agree with those who say it was more intense than other years; I therefore understand the great irritation of Van Raak and others. I can't give firm guarantees, but do my best to limit it. I merely believe that the way in which documents are made public and the phasing in will have little effect on leaking. It does have effects on the throne speech and the character of Prince's Day. I warn against these effects, and for this reason I believe that we should not do so, also because it does not solve the problem of leakage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u192	A promise has been made for a letter. I'll take that hand-off. We will discuss it at a later date. Spring 2016 seems like a good appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u193	Yes. I'm almost out of questions with that. There were questions about the celebration of 200 years of Kingdom. This celebration did not concern a specific form of state, which is also reflected in the subtitle "The Netherlands is birthday." At the request of Mr Pechtold and others during previous debates, much attention has also been paid to the run-up to 1813, the Batavian history of the national state. This has been done, among other things, in publications and speeches, so that it is put into context. The Kingdom dimension has been addressed by a meeting of the Youth Parliament on St.Maarten. Five own events have been organised by the Committee and more than 270 spontaneous activities have taken place, from many different organisations. Public awareness of this is around 50% according to a poll. A million people have participated in all activities; I think that's a good score. Of course, it's not the score you get on the question: when did the Second World War end? Every year we celebrate 4 and 5 May, and that is very much in public knowledge. 200 years of Kingdom is a somewhat more historical fact. But if you look at the activities and the involvement, it was, in my opinion, a great success. The festival took place in Scheveningen, The Hague, Maastricht, Zwolle and Amsterdam. The closing party took place in Amsterdam. As regards costs: over a period of five years, the Ministry of General Affairs contributed around €2.75 million to the Committee and the Ministry of Interior and Kingdom Relations around €1.35 million. That means about 0.5 million for AZ per year and about three tons for BZK. Financial resources have also been made available to the Committee by third parties. That's how I answered all the questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u194	Even now, a few very important questions have not been answered. I told the Prime Minister that sample last year. We asked an intern to choose outside the recess for eight days and to see how many written questions were asked on those days and what the deadline was. That came out last year of those questions, quite a dozen...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u195	I will reply to this in second term. I just ended this on the officials. This comes back in second term. Indeed, I had not yet answered the question. I recognize him from Mr Pechtold's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u196	There was a second question. Just now, it was about leaks. I was talking about the opposite: the dirty laundry. I notice that structural matters are coming out at the moment, sometimes it is painful moments that seem to be convenient. By default, on Friday afternoons there will be a lot to do. By default, that's a moment when you have to watch your back as a Member of Parliament. I'm sorry to hear that. But the night before Prince's Day, I really found a low point. Minister Koenders announced that we do not take prisoners from Guantánamo, Minister Dijsselbloem made a setback at ABN AMRO, we received answers to questions to Asscher why a psychic education had been funded that had only resulted in one job, a study by Koenders about a Dutch diplomat, a press release from the Council of State on the legal protection of citizens in administrative penalties... It went on and on. And then we sat on the throne speech and that horrible report from the D.A. came out to Security and Justice. Of course, you can say that MPs have to keep an eye out 24/7. However, I find it just uncomfortable that this is how bad news is dealt with, so the opposite of leaks. That is why I am addressing the Prime Minister at the moment, so that I do not have all these things to do every time. What is the Prime Minister's view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u197	That I'll see if I recognize this. By the way, it seems very dangerous to reveal pieces on or just before Princess Day if you really want to hide the news, because right after Princess Day the General Political Reviews are. Then the parliamentary debate will be live on television for two full days. I don't know if that moment is wisely chosen if that's what you're after. Anyway, let's discuss whether, if that were your goal, and I agree with Mr Pechtold that that is not desirable for you to have that goal in mind at all, you should choose the evening before Prince's Day or just park it for the moment of the speech of the throne. I'll see if I can recognize this image myself in the next few weeks. I'm sure it'll happen sometime. I also read the articles that state that there are times when you have to bring your problems out in the eyes of experts. But is it going to happen? I immediately believe that those moments are there, but whether or not it happens, I am going to actively follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u198	Then I would like the Prime Minister, also for the sake of time, to take a look at the last Prince's Day and what happened around it. I have just given a number of examples. That wasn't a coincidence anymore, that was obvious. And yes, then the next day there is so much news that those things go away from that. I find this an unpleasant way of doing business, given the relationship with and the right to information of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u199	I get that. Mr President, is it conceivable to suspend for five minutes, for all kinds of practical reasons, before we continue with the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u200	That seems to me to be a very good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u201	Fantastic idea!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u202	This has put an end to the government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u203	Mr. Chairman. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make a proposal on how the tax exemptions of the King, the Queen and the former Queen can be undone,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to remove the maintenance of De Groene Draeck from the Navy company and give it to a specialised company,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Prime Minister to launch an investigation into the leaking of the Princess Day proposals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Raak, Mr Recourt and Mr Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-I-5]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Pechtold. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-III-5]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-III-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u204	The Prime Minister says that he is terribly annoyed by the leaks. That can't be solved by management by speech. I also think that research is very important because it has to do with the quality of our governance. I've had the debate with the Prime Minister about the fat-me. I think a fat-I is someone who does things he knows aren't right, but she does them anyway because he knows he can get away with it. That getting away with behavior that can't be accepted makes people behave like fat people. You gotta keep people from getting away with that. I am convinced that shaping and organising a budget is one of the most organized processes we have in politics. We know exactly who had what information, but what is also very important is that every leak also leaves a fingerprint. You can check that out. You can trace it back to individuals, departments and organizations. I want the Prime Minister to do that research, especially in order to respond to his own annoyances about the fat-me and the bad public morality. The people who move in the ministries and are there for the public interest of our country should not belong in the administration or in the ministries if they cannot behave. That makes such an investigation extra important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u205	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions. With the possibility of making the reservation for large maintenance of the palaces, a good step has been taken in making the costs for the royal house as predictable as possible. My group is also pleased that, in the context of further increasing the transparency of the King's budget, the multiannual maintenance programme for the palaces or a summary thereof will also be included in the annex to the King's budget. In the same context, it is good that this annex also contains the overview of foundations containing the assets that are functional for the exercise of kingship. You have already noticed this evening that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this. We have to take it away. It is also good for transparency that the maintenance costs of De Groene Draeck are included in the annex. The Prime Minister has further promised that the costs of the renovation of the Golden Coach in the coming years will not lead to an upward adjustment of the relevant budget line. It is also now stipulated that the costs for the maintenance of De Groene Draeck will no longer be borne by the government, if Princess Beatrix no longer uses them. That brings me to my request to do that second opinion for the sake of clarity: that was about De Groene Draeck in order to establish a realistic level of maintenance for De Groene Draeck and a real cost level. Thank you for the commitment to do so. However, my group would also like to see this real lowest level of maintenance included in the 2016 Defence budget; hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the King's budget for 2015 included an amount of €51,000 for the standard maintenance of De Groene Draeck;]] [[Whereas it has been found that additional maintenance is necessary in the coming years;]] [[Whereas the amount for standard and additional maintenance for the coming years is estimated at €95.000 per year;]] [[noting that the maintenance costs of De Groene Draeck thus show a significant increase;]] [[calls on the Government to have a "second opinion" on what is a realistic level of maintenance for such a particular lemsterak, specified by standard and additional maintenance, and to what is a real level of maintenance cost;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the 2016 Defence budget the lowest real maintenance cost level derived from this "second opinion,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Burg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-I-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u206	Thank you, Mr President. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u207	Thank you, Mrs Van der Burg. Mrs Van Toorenburg will refrain from speaking. I shall then give the floor to Mr Recourt of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u208	Mr. Chairman. I raised three points in my first term. The first point can be summarized under the title "do normal": imagine what you set as a standard for ordinary citizens wherever possible for the king. I mentioned De Groene Draeck and the renovation costs. On both, the Prime Minister has said that he is sticking to his commitment, quite rightly, but that can be a little different in the future. I hope that, in the coming years, we will slowly be free of this kind of incident. That would make a lot of dust. The second point was taxation. I had a motion in preparation on the technique of power. The Prime Minister surprised me, while we have been working on this for four years, by saying that it is completely empty and consists of nothing but a limited number of foundations he mentioned in connection with the Golden Coach and I know what. I have thought that if it is not possible, then it must be out of technology and become a more general motion. Mr Van Raak and Mr Pechtold have encouraged me to look for my supporters and we have done so three times. Mr Van Raak has already read that motion in very general terms. We now place the ball technically neutral with the cabinet to solve it. The third point was the further opening up of palaces. As far as I'm concerned, the Prime Minister got over that a little too quickly. He said: that is not possible, there are people working and private and public cannot be separated. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas not all royal palaces are open to the public;]] [[whereas all palaces are financed by public funds;]] [[Considers that the security of these premises, the protection of the privacy of residents and the work that takes place there do not justify the fact that some palaces should remain closed to the public almost always and in their entirety;]] [[believes that opening up of Noordeinde Palace and Palace House ten Bosch at times when that is possible and for spaces that allow it is desirable;]] [[believes that a broad audience, including schoolchildren, should benefit from the opening up of palaces;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how and when these palaces will be opened to the public and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Recourt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-I-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u209	This brings me to the end of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u210	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I've got a few more out there. I'll get the answers to that in a minute. I have two motions. The first concerns De Groene Draeck. Proposals for a second opinion have already been made. However, I would also like to propose that, after the 2016 budget, that second opinion, if it is 60 years ago, should be passed on the boat as a whole. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Green Draeck was given a present to Princess Beatrix in 1957 and since then the State has largely taken care of maintenance;]] [[whereas the maintenance costs of De Groene Draeck produce a recurring social debate and that this makes the royal family unnecessarily vulnerable;]] [[calls on the government, in close consultation with the royal family, to transfer De Groene Draeck fully to them and to inform the Chamber thereof for the 2017 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-I-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u211	We, PvdA, SP and D66, will listen carefully with the Cabinet to what can change around those exemptions. Let us also say, however, that governance is forward-looking. The benefit is too high for me. I would like to do something about this in the distant future. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the King has an income of more than eight tonnes per year;]] [[Whereas non-royal income in the public sector is regulated by Top Income Standards Act;]] [[calls on the government, in subsequent monarchs, to establish royal incomes in accordance with the applicable legal framework for the normalization of top incomes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-I-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u212	I have a minute left!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u213	I think you used it in your interruptions. No? Thank you very much, Mr Pechtold. Mr Slob and Mr Van der Staaij signed off on the continuation of the debate. I shall therefore give the floor to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u214	Mr. Chairman. My first motion is because the motion of Recourt, Van Raak and Pechtold is not the same. My motion goes a little further, because it also mentions the Constitution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a proposal to amend the Constitution in order to put an end to the generous tax benefits for the members of the Royal House,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-I-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u215	The same applies to my motion on De Groene Draeck: it is just a bit sharper than Pechtold's. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the maintenance to De Groene Draeck costs as much as €95.000 per year;]] [[Whereas it is only logical that the main user of this sailing yacht should pay for these costs;]] [[Whereas Princess Beatrix receives a substantial annual payment from the Dutch State;]] [[calls on the government no longer to finance the maintenance costs of De Groene Draeck,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-I-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u216	This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. I would remind the Prime Minister that he has promised to return to a number of questions in the second term. I'm assuming he's thought of that. I will give the Prime Minister the floor for his answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u217	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I think I will be given official advice on some of the last motions. I'm gonna start anyway. After all, I also have a number of first-term commitments to honour, for example towards Mrs Van Toorenburg of the CDA on decentralisation. She mentioned some of them. The power of decentralisation in youth care is now closer to people. As a result, more customisation can also be delivered. In my opinion, this also benefits the quality of care. That doesn't change the fact that, of course, you have to keep your finger on the wrist. Actually, that's what the CDA was saying. My view is that the transition in youth care is largely going well. This is also apparent from the reports of the Transition Committee on Social Domain, the so-called TSD. It is also the case that if problems arise, they will be adjusted immediately. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked specifically about my role as chairman of the ministerial committee. Now, from the Chiefsache postulate, I have the great honour of chairing all the ministerial committees, including this one. I'd like to establish that here. From this role I have an overview of the discussions that are taking place there. Of course, I am not aware of everything that is going on in the departments in the implementation of the various decentralisations, but as far as cohesion is concerned, I am. I believe that we are realising the social goals we had in the area of youth care, the Participation Act and the Wmo, namely to enable municipalities to look at these issues much more than hitherto from an integrated approach. That doesn't change the fact that things aren't going well either. Several debates have been held here on, for example, the personal budget. That seemed to be a small part of a major change in care. In practice, this is much more difficult. Many debates have been held on this subject. In these cases, too, we must adjust. That is what is happening, in this case by the responsible Secretary of State and, where necessary, with the support of the cabinet. I think that is exactly what a cabinet should do: introduce major system changes only then where we add something, and then see how things work out in practice. If adjustment is needed in practice, we need to adjust and, above all, always assess whether the expected societal goals are being achieved. In this case, it is a question of making this important policy issue much more coherent and common at municipal level. That's my reaction. I'm sorry I didn't mention this in the first term. I am glad that Mrs Van Toorenburg reminded me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u218	If the Prime Minister sees that the Secretary of State responsible for youth is running into a number of very fundamental issues, how does he keep an eye on that? I would like to mention the fact that youth-ggz does not achieve that goal at all, or that this decentralisation, bringing it closer to people, is sometimes so complicated to implement in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u219	I'm Secretary of General Affairs and not of all things. It is organised in such a way that General Affairs is a small department, with eight or nine advisors covering the eleven departments of The Hague and monitoring the various policy areas. That also works very well in practice. It gives me instant insight into where things go well and also into where things don't go well. Of course, this is primarily the responsibility of the Secretary of State. I myself have been Secretary of State in two major areas of legislation: social security and education. The last thing you want is for the chief to get involved immediately if something doesn't go right. That is, of course, first and foremost a matter for the govern ment concerned. Sometimes, however, you have to solve things together. That's not because that governor can't do it, but because he's up against things that transcend his portfolio or have financial consequences. These are typically the themes that we are also discussing in the Ministerial Committee on Decentralisations. I do not want to go into the youth ggz very much now, if only because I did not, of course, prepare for this debate in detail. If that type of problem arises, I have a number of channels which inform me about it and a number of instruments with which I can send in. Or, as Ruud Lubbers called it, to walk along.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u220	Let that be exactly why I asked this question. I would very much like the Prime Minister to walk with the Secretary of State in this very fundamental matter in the near future, so that he can make sure that the objectives we had are achieved. I think it is important for him to act decisively in this and to ask questions that the Secretary of State sometimes brushes away a little towards the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u221	I doubt that all this is true; of course I fully support the Secretary of State. But at least thank you for this opportunity to give me further thought. Then I come to the surface of the palace that is being rebuilt. I already indicated that I didn't have the measuring tape at hand for a while when it was asked whether it was almost 9,000 m in part or the whole palace. That's about the whole palace. Last year we talked about these technical installations and the renovation of the Wassenaar wing. Those technical installations are all over the palace. So we're talking about 9,000 m. I told you, we were at the bottom of the bandwidth for the square meter price, because only the Wassenaarse wing, the residential part, would be thoroughly rebuilt. For the Hague wing only the technique applied. It has now been decided to renovate the entire palace, including the Hague Wing, including all the additional costs I outlined of roof, burgundy and additional asbestos problems, which has increased the square meter price. But indeed, Mr Pechtold was right. His carpenter's eye.. excuse before I shove something in his shoes again.. is sharper than mine. 9,000 m is the entire palace, not just the Wassenaar wing. Unfortunately, I can't say anything about the security of the speedboat for security reasons. On the question of whether security in Greece has remained within the budget, I can say that the answer is yes. Measures have been taken on the basis of threats and risks. I cannot tell you what measures they are or what their cost is, but it has remained within the budget. I can report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u222	The Netherlands was a little surprised that there had to be such an incredibly expensive, fast speedboat in Greece. I think it's more than normal to get an answer. That has nothing to do with safety, because that is what we hear every time. Was a second or similar boat purchased or rented to provide that security? We are also told that scaffolding and fences have been built. They have everything to do with safety. So either the security's on the boat or she's in a boat just as fast after it. In the latter case, I find that rather interesting for the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u223	I refer to the previous answer. Answering questions about security in any direction would give very detailed access to security. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u224	It's not that hard. Well, let's make it a little sharper around this hour. We can see in a moment whether there is a second boat behind it. So the Prime Minister does not deny that eight tonnes have probably also been spent on a second Osprey.................................................................................................................................................................................................. This has nothing to do with security, because we can immediately see on holiday snapshots on the Mediterranean of the paparazzi or others whether a boat is behind it, yes or no. It's my job to check if that boat has led to huge costs and if there's a second boat when the royal family is on that speedboat. I can wait for the pictures or I can just get an honest answer. Since it is quite an expensive boat that can be very fast, there should also be a very expensive second boat. I find that rather interesting, because I want to know what the money is spent on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u225	I really don't think this is right. This is just security. In security matters, we never give access. So yes, then Mr. Pechtold should buy a wide-angle lens and lie nearby. Really, I'm not gonna do that. I also object to the insinuating first remark about 'that boat', as he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u226	Why is it a boat again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u227	No, no, no, no. Now the Prime Minister is speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u228	That boat was just funded by the King. That's a private purchase. He can do that. We now know that Mr Pechtold does not have a boat. We know I don't have a boat. He's got one. That's a choice of his private money. That's not at the expense of the taxpayer. He bought it himself. Do we have to be ridiculous about that, too? Guys, let's just keep the level together. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u229	This private purchase has led to the construction of a very expensive scaffolding. It was then called "piertje," just as the Prime Minister now says "boat." It was an entire boathouse, for God's sake, which the taxpayer had to pay for because the purchase was made! And yes, I want to know if security had to buy one of those boats. Otherwise, the Prime Minister will say, "Go and wait for the photos to be taken." This Prime Minister thinks this whole budget for a long time: you know what, I keep them off me; it whines; it's annoying. I don't want the Prime Minister hiding behind security. I want to know, is there any need for a second boat? The taxpayer had to buy a fence. The taxpayer had to buy land from the neighbors. The taxpayer had to buy a boathouse and a jetty of concrete because that boat is there. I'm fine with it all, but we're the inspectors, and I want to know, was there a second boat bought for security, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u230	I don't accept the insinuation that I find the whining. We are here to debate for three hours, and I am going to deal with all the questions in detail. That's my job, too. I answer to the Chamber about the budget of General Affairs and the King. I think it's below par, I repeat: below par, what the leader of D66 does. We are dealing with a person who is now head of our State by birth. We are all responsible for his safety. These people, the king and the queen, are protected 24 hours a day. There is actually no longer any distinction between their public function and their private life. They've almost gotten all mixed up. They're being permanently secured. And what does the leader of D66 do? He makes faint remarks about the fact that this man buys a boat out of his private capacity, as any Dutchman can do, while keeping it secret with every other Dutchman and he is also going to make insinuations about the fact that that has to be secured, yes or no, and asks me questions about it. It seems logical to me that we secure the king. I hope there will be no discussion on this. I'm really a little upset about it. I really don't think it's right. I'm getting to the phone now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u231	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr Pechtold, this is your last interruption. You said at the beginning that you would be reluctant. I hope you have that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u233	The Prime Minister is quite right to be annoyed. I am even more irritated about the fact that I have to walk through these budgets every time as an accountant, as a tax inspector, and that, damn it, we get a second opinion on De Groene Draeck at the request of his own party. Good advisorship of the Prime Minister in 2015 would mean that this kind of thing would be more transparent, that a private purchase of a boat, if indeed, would not lead to high costs for a scaffolding, for a boathouse and for possible security through a second speedboat. Those are legitimate questions. That it always happens with caution around the Oranges, I know. It's a tradition. However, I do not belong to the army of those who keep their mouths shut. I am one of those who ask the Prime Minister in his responsibility what is happening. Questions are not answered and it is said: that is private, that is security. The Prime Minister can hide behind it, but I'm checking the budget here. That is my job, my constitutional task.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u234	It would be helpful if Mr. Pechtold did not change his pants a little more quickly. He wears very big trousers when it comes to his constitutional task and then ridiculs the king in his remarks about that ship. I object to that. I just said the same thing. I'm gonna keep that up. I therefore refer to the previous answer. You can't change pants that fast. I'm joining the telephony project. That was also a question from D66. As far as I'm concerned, this one fits back into what we're talking about here. I'm not going over that, by the way, but I can find something about it. Mr Pechtold asked me how the costs of the telephony project could have tripled. That's typically a case we need to discuss here. The assumption doesn't add up. Total expenditure for this occasional project to replace an obsolete telephony infrastructure of a Royal House service amounted to approximately €750,000. From the regular budget available, from Article 2, €250,000 could be collected. The rest of the expenditure for this occasional project could not be met within the regular operating budget. This led to the five-tonne increase. This was also reported in May this year in the King's Annual Report 2014. This increase will be settled in 2015 by means of a final statement of account and will be covered by a contribution from the AZ budget. This means that the state budget as a whole is not going up. I come to the motions, first of all the motion in part No. 5 by Mr Van Raak. If Mr Van Raak asks me how to do that technically, I am going to answer him now. Then there must be a bill... Oh, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u235	We would also talk about the deadline for answering questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u236	That's right. Mr Pechtold is absolutely right. The directors always strive to answer questions of Parliament within the three-week deadline. It's true that this doesn't always work. Sometimes information needs to be obtained from third parties. However, I would like to say to Mr Pechtold that I understand his point and think that this is a real point which I will raise in the Council of Ministers that we are going to steer much more closely on timely answers to questions by directors and that will be reported when it is not possible to do so on time due to information collection with third parties. That's a promise I make.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u237	That was also last year's commitment. I am also looking at you here, Mr President. It's three weeks. Last year, a sample of the Prime Minister was very interested in the Now it's been extended by 4 days. Only 2 out of 74 questions were answered within a week. My question was: where is the honor now to answer a question quickly, within a week? There isn't. The deadlines are getting longer. I am pleased that it will be on Friday, but I would like there to be improvement if we do it again in a while. For this is a constitutional right to information, in which the deadlines are actually exceeded by default rather than by exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u238	I was addressed, too. I think it would be wise for us to find out exactly what is going on with everything, so not just on the basis of the D66 sample. Thank you for doing that, Mr Pechtold. We're gonna look into the systems, we're gonna get in touch with them, and we're gonna report back to the Chamber on that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u239	That's a good plan. I'll tell you what. Let's do this. That also goes a little further than last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u240	If this issue is to be looked at more broadly, I would also like to see what the increase in the number of questions is. We in the Chamber have an information right and that is important, but it is also important to look at that relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u241	The Chamber is informed of this every year in the State of the Chamber, but we can also include it in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u242	I have another point. I have recently asked many questions to the Prime Minister, and none of them has been properly answered in the sense that the Prime Minister has done his best to answer the question. This concerns Article 9 of the Constitution, or at least the individual constitutional law of Members of Parliament. This is not just about quantity but also about quality. The Prime Minister has been a Member of Parliament himself. Would he like to go through the answers to the questions I have put to the House over the past year on a Sunday afternoon with a Member's hat? Look at that seriously and try to look at that as a Member of Parliament. I wonder how the Prime Minister feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u243	In answering Parliament's questions, I always try to take this constitutional right very seriously. That does not translate into the length of the reply. I try to answer as briefly as possible, and very often yes or no, because many questions are closed. You can answer that with a yes or no. Sometimes it needs an explanation. I try to do so as conscientiously as possible, but I promise I will read the next question from Mr Van Raak with even greater attention than I already did. For Mr Van Raak can count on his questions being dealt with separately in the General Affairs Department. I will look into that further and see whether the response meets the high demands he is putting forward here. I believe it is, but I will pay extra attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u244	I ask that question because the VVD asked a question about the number of questions. I do not often ask questions, but mostly they are follow-up questions, because I see that the Prime Minister and other ministers who do not like them simply do not answer questions. Then you've asked five questions and there's a paragraph at the end. For example, they answer questions 1 and 3, but questions 2, 4 and 5 are not at all. Then I have to ask those questions again, and again and again. I am also saying this for the few viewers who are still here. They think we're just asking questions all day long as a hobby. Most of the questions I ask, I ask because questions have not been answered or because information or reports are not sent to the Chamber. That sort of thing. It is because ministers simply refuse to comply with our constitutional law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u245	I hear this cri du coeur. Once again, I admit that Mr Van Raak's next set of questions will be answered with even greater care than we always have. I'm coming to the Van Raak c.s. motion. (34300-I, No. 5). If I'm asked to give technical advice on how to do this, I can give it now. To achieve this, a constitutional amendment must be tabled, I assume by the three parties concerned, which provides for the deletion of the three articles from the Constitution. That is the answer to the question: what about technically? If I am asked "If we are going to prepare for such a constitutional change, is the Ministry of General Affairs prepared to provide assistance?', is the answer: always. That is not because we agree, because I strongly disagree. I am not going to do it myself, but if Members of Parliament as co-legislators make an initiative bill, the Ministry of General Affairs and perhaps the Home Affairs Department will provide assistance and technical support. If the Chamber controls me, it is above me, and as legislators we are at the same level. We're co-legislators. We do not do that because we agree once again, we are not; we are very opposed to it, but of course we want proper legislation and we have the devices to help. So one: how do you do it? Delete the three articles. Two: am I willing to help? Of course. That's our job, too. That is not a good commitment, because we always have to do so in the case of own-initiative legislative proposals. Three: do I intend to do it myself? Absolutely not. I'm not gonna do it myself. The government only makes legislative proposals if it supports them, and it does not support them. That is the honest answer to this motion. So I advise her, because I have the impression that I am being asked in the motion to write that bill. I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u246	Look, what was that constitutional thing like? If the motion is adopted by a large majority and the motion says that the government is asked to come forward with proposals, then the government should do so. Then the government should just do it nicely. Those are the proportions. We are not here for the government; the government is here for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u247	Nor are we co-legislators. We stand side by side in this respect. You are not above the government; you are if you control me, but as co-legislators we are at the same level, state and state law. If the motion asks us to come up with proposals on how to do that, then I can send another letter to the Chamber in which I repeat what I said, namely: in order to achieve this, you have to delete those three articles in the Constitution and make them a legislative proposal. I can still do that, but then I'll put on paper what I just told you. That's the technical explanation of how to do it. What we are not going to do is prepare a legislative proposal on something we do not want to do. The Chamber may ask me, in motions for resolutions, to amend policy, to take certain initiatives, to set up committees etc., but it is very unusual for the Chamber to ask the government to make a law that the government does not want. It doesn't have to, because the Chamber itself is a legislator. If we are merely asked to come up with a proposal on how it should be done, so I want to put its technique on paper, if the motion is adopted, that it is necessary to amend the Constitution in order to achieve this and to delete the three articles. I want to be very sharp about that, otherwise there will be differences in expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u248	That's good. Then I'd like to be sharp too. Where exactly does the coalition agreement state that this cannot be done? Where does the agreement say that this is not allowed and that this will not happen? Then let it happen. There is therefore a Prime Minister before a parliament and a motion is tabled by that parliament asking for action to be taken. And then the Prime Minister says in advance: I don't care what the Chamber thinks, and if a large majority in the Chamber votes for it, thank you for the cuckoo, we're not going to do it, because the government doesn't want it. Who does the government think she is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u249	The government is the government. We're co-legislators. The government has just given birth to a view on a Van Maanen opinion, which was also written at the request of the Chamber, on duty-free. The advice is not to tax-free. The government has made that advice its own. So that is also the view of this cabinet. Part of the Chamber has other ideas about that. That is entirely possible. The Chamber can always ask the government to do all kinds of things by way of motion. It is very unusual for the Chamber to ask the government to draw up a legislative proposal, which the government has previously indicated, also substantiated, that it does not feel in favour of. It doesn't have to be, because the Chamber itself has all the instruments in its hands to make a bill. The bill doesn't have to come from the government. The Chamber can also take the initiative. Then the government will help write such a bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u250	Finally, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u251	I note, however, that the Prime Minister has little interest in the House of Representatives. If there is a leak from his ministry and questions come from the Chamber then they are not answered seriously. If questions come out of the Chamber, motions are tabled and proposals are made to the government, then the government says in advance: well, you can find what you want; you can stand on your head and climb the tree, we do not do it. I think that, as a Chamber, we should also consider this Prime Minister's attitude towards this Parliament. But I have to say, I think it's brave. I find this Prime Minister's attitude towards this House of Representatives very brave, because I also see that the majority in this House of Representatives is not very large and is getting smaller for this government and that on the other side that majority is not yet there at all, far from it. So let me put it this way: I find the Prime Minister's attitude particularly brave.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u252	Mr Van Raak makes an analysis based on a false assumption. I am a parliamentary politician and I have been in Parliament for years. I have the greatest respect for the House of Representatives. That is precisely why I try to observe the careful relationship. The Chamber can ask me, by way of a motion, to do something where the government has special powers and that is in many areas. There are all sorts of motions coming along in the near future where that applies, actually the next seven motions. I do not agree with all the motions, but they are motions in which you can indeed ask the government something. Now, however, the co-legislator is asked to make a legislative proposal, while the cabinet has just explained this to the Chamber, with all the information requested at the request of the Chamber, because it said: let us take a very fundamental look at duty-free. The committee's conclusion is to keep it that way. The government has made that conclusion to its own. If the motion were to be adopted, it would be said that we would force you to write a bill that is 180 degrees in the opposite direction. Parliament itself, as much as the government, has the tool to make a legislative proposal. That makes it a very strange request. My point of view is: I'm going to help, but I'm not going to write it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u253	If I understand correctly, the discussion is actually who is submitting the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u254	That's the question, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u255	The Prime Minister says: of course we are giving all the technical assistance that is needed, we are simply not going to submit it because we do not agree with it and we do not need it because the Chamber itself can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u256	That's the story, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u257	Then we'll talk again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u258	I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u259	And the contradiction isn't a problem either?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u260	No, no problem, here's the deal. In the Van Raak/Pechtold motion (34300-III, nr. 5) The government is asked to remove De Groene Draeck from the Navy company. We have just discussed the second opinion and all the issues related to it in detail. I would like to refer to that commitment and to advise against this motion. The same applies to the Van Raak motion (34300-III, No. 6), referring to the extensive debate which Mr Van Raak and I had in a pleasant atmosphere during the first term of the Chamber. The Van der Burg motion (34300-I, No. 6) I consider policy support. That also fits the second opinion. Once there is, we will offer it to the Chamber. We will therefore see what the role of defence in the future will be. The Record motion (34300-I, No. 7) on the opening I advise against. I just explained that Huis ten Bosch is a residential house and that Noordeinde Palace is just an office. I don't think they're suitable for guided tours. The Pechtold/Van Raak motion (34300-I, No. 8) is about the whole transfer of De Groene Draeck. The question is, who's it gonna be? I would also like to refer briefly to the previous discussion with the President of the Chamber. Deal's a deal. It was not only a gift to the then Crown Princess, but also a promise that we will maintain the ship until the one to whom it has been donated can no longer use it. By the way, Mr Pechtold and I have now found out that the wardrobe is about the sails of the ship, so not about the clothes. That was just a reference to a short interruption in the first term. The Pechtold/Van Raak motion (34300-I, No. 9) deals with the fact that for the next monarchs I will certainly be there, because at the next throne change I intend to still have this function... the royal incomes will be determined in accordance with the applicable legal framework for the normalization of top incomes. I advise against this motion. But again, I do have the ambition to be there. The Bontes motion (34300-I, No. 10) also calls for an amendment to the Constitution. This is the same as what I just discussed with Mr Van Raak. The Bontes motion (34300-I, No. 11), with reference to the reply I just gave on Mr Pechtold's motion. I think we've come a long way with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u261	I saw Mr Van Raak get up, but he didn't do that to run to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-14-tweedekamer-9.u262	We vote on the motions tabled after the autumn recess. I wish you all a safe journey home.
