ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-8.u1	Incoming is the next letter. Mr President, With an unmistakable double feeling I announced that from 4 January 2016 I will leave the House of Representatives to be appointed mayor of Capelle aan den IJssel. When I joined the Lower House of the CDA Group, I had not previously been an elected representative in politics. It was therefore a major step from the Vice President of the Amsterdam Court to parliamentary membership. However, I could continue to focus on the area where my expertise was, security and justice. I started as a prosecutor in Rotterdam in the executive, then I worked as a judge in The Hague, Arnhem and Amsterdam in the judiciary and now I work in the legislature in The Hague. My personal trias politician is complete. The reason for me to go into national politics was mainly motivated by the fact that I still saw far too much go wrong within the criminal justice chain. From my broad experience, I wanted to contribute to a better functioning criminal justice chain. This was done in a period of much reorganisation within the police and the justice system and also in terms of budget cuts. At close range, for example, I experienced the closure of many prison locations and I saw the pain of the prison staff and the small entrepreneurs who were economically dependent on life around a prison. In the caselaw, the judges asked for attention to be paid to the excessive workload and, contrary to tradition, went outside. Citizens are faced with the closure of police stations and there was the Council's intended decision on the case-law to partially dismantle courts. This is what I was so worried about. In this context, I welcome the fact that, together with the other opposition parties, I have been able to make a substantial contribution to, for example, keeping the courts open. The fact that you can also make a substantial contribution from the opposition turned out to be such moments. For a year, I was also an asylum spokesperson alongside spokesperson V and J. The complexity and sensitivity of that dossier increased explosively due to the arrival of tens of thousands of refugees. I have seen many poignant cases, but also the tension it causes in society. It is up to all of us to form our well-balanced opinions and judgements here that do justice to feelings in society, and provide long-term solutions. A special task as a Member of Parliament was to take on board the membership of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing. Not only the drafting of the report that we have produced, many of which were adopted in Minister Blok's novelle, but also the way forward was a special experience. Six MPs of different plumage with a very strong staff were able to acquire the complex matter in two years' time. They separated themselves from party politics and worked together to analyse the problems of housing corporations and to formulate recommendations for the future. I'm happy to look back on this. Looking back on this period, I am also thinking of the bill on parental civil liability, which I was allowed to defend in the First Chamber, and of a restrictive coffee shop policy that we have been able to maintain. Reportedly, many people soon looked at the coffee shops in Capelle aan den IJssel when I announced my upcoming appointment. For me personally, this period as a member of the House of Representatives has also been an eventful time, with sweetness and suffering. My father died, I married and I had two sons: Alexander and Benjamin. The youngest was given a special gift by the Minister of Security and Justice: he was named in the Acts of the House of Representatives. I am grateful for all the fine contacts, including in the personal area, with these kinds of events. When I joined the House of Representatives in 2012, I also noticed this warmth and kindness with the staff of the Bodedienst, the Registry, the Security and the Restaurant. From this point on, I would also like to express my thanks and respect for the Members and the Registrar with his staff of the Permanent Committee on Security and Justice, in which I sat. The committee worked constructively and in a cooperative way, despite the differences that sometimes existed. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. It's never been my strong suit to stay in time. That's what's done now. I look back and am very grateful to you all for a wonderful and educational time in the Chamber. It was a great privilege to be part of this Chamber. From 4 January onwards, I will be working for the inhabitants of Capelle aan den IJssel from an administrative role. Good luck to you all! Peter Oskam
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-8.u2	This resignation was notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that this letter be adopted for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-8.u3	Now I can say something back. Dear Mr. Oskam, dear Peter. During your maiden speech in 2012, which was about registry rights, you quoted the trias politician. It's funny to see you refer to that in your suicide note. You started it and you end it. In your maiden speech, you said you had gained experience in both executive and judicial power. You started your career as a street cop in The Hague's Schilderswijk. You mentioned the New Year riots that cost the community a lot of money. For the city of The Hague this was reason to send the rioters to winter sports the following year; that was ultimately cheaper. With you, it aroused your political interest. In 1992, you made the transition to the judiciary. You became a district attorney in Rotterdam. Later you also became judge in The Hague and vice president of the court in Rotterdam and Amsterdam. As of 10 October 2012, the third power, the legislative power, was added. What appealed to you in Parliament was that, in your own words, you can work very concretely on solutions. "It's in my nature to interfere with everything," you said in an interview. And, "I want to make something and have the opportunity to make things run differently." This result-oriented approach was sometimes at odds with the opposition role played by the CDA under the current political constellation. You find that difficult, but you also realize it's part of the game. The fact that you've been through the whole justice chain has brought you a lot as a spokesperson in the field of the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, terrorism and justice. In addition, your spokesperson was foreign and asylum policy. In total, there are 71 motions in your name. You co-signed 70 motions. One of them had to do with that other great passion of yours: football. You proposed to investigate the possibility of treating a larger proportion of football-related violence through criminal law. The motion was rejected, but you did it anyway. To complete the series of figures: you submitted 100 sets of written questions and you passed oral Question Time thirteen times. Often it was about the police or serious crime, but also about the dangers of shisha, not to be confused with SiSa by the way. It is also unique that your youngest son, Benjamin, has been given a place in our parliamentary history. You mentioned that in your letter. The Minister of Security and Justice explicitly mentioned him during a debate on the reorganisation of the National Police. He hadn't come to buy you a present but immortalized Benjamin in the Acts. You are known as someone who values good mutual understandings, both with fellow chamber members and with the administration. That was true of your work in the Committee on Security and Justice, in which you argued for more joint work visits, and for your participation in the parliamentary committee of inquiry on housing corporations. People liked having you around. You are genuinely interested in the other person, sometimes making a good joke or magicalizing a roll of peppermint or Italianos out of your inner pocket. That strengthens the chemistry, which is as necessary as you work together on such a large intensive project. Beautiful is a quote by Peter Hendriks, a guest author of the Follow the Money website, who followed the work of the Committee of Inquiry: "I am here. Peter Oskam was particularly striking. He's got a college crest, and when he talks, he's gonna pinch his eyes a little bit. Oskam definitely has some kind of star quality." Dear Peter, you were a police officer, a district attorney, a judge, not to mention a referee, but you never made a secret that your ambitions lie elsewhere. For a long time, you've had the desire to become mayor, maybe work a little more concretely on solutions, to make something, to make things run differently. That wish is now being fulfilled. You will be mayor of Capelle aan den IJssel. On behalf of the entire Chamber, I wish you every success. Take care!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-16-tweedekamer-8.u4	There's a list of incoming items on the Registrar's table. That list contains proposals for the examination of these documents. If there is no objection to this before the end of the sitting, I assume that it will be accepted.
