ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister. He will now respond in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u2	Madam President. I would like to thank the Chamber for the extremely interesting first term. I imagine that my answer will be as follows. I will make a very brief introduction and then discuss eight points. Then I will answer the remaining questions per speaker in the order of the sitting. I will mention the eight topics. 1. The constellation, so everything that has to do with the Commonwealth et cetera and the cohesion in the Kingdom. 2. The interest that the various countries have to pay for their loans. Maybe that's a smaller subject. 3. The Council of State's information on administrative relations and, in particular, on the indications given. 4. The dispute settlement. 5. The current political situation in Saint Martin. 6. The Isla refinery on Curaçao. 7. The situation regarding refugees from Venezuela. 8. Caribbean Netherlands. Then I will look at what remains to be done. I'll give you a very brief introduction first. Mr Segers compared the relationship in the Kingdom with family relations. That will probably be seen as a metaphor for most of us, but it is perhaps nice to realize that this is actually the case for many people in the Caribbean Netherlands, but also in the other countries of the Kingdom. They have many relatives here, such as children, parents, cousins and cousins. Thus, one sees much more relationships than just business relations between countries and experiences it as part of the common home for that reason. Even if you see it as a metaphor, it goes well. You didn't choose each other, but you're gonna do it together. There is always some room to determine how close you are to each other or how close you are to each other. I personally believe that the six islands without the strong embedding in the Kingdom would mean a much worse life for their inhabitants. This is first and foremost the case in the area of the rule of law. Try to keep an independent judicial device going in a country with 45,000 inhabitants! This is also the case in the field of business. After all, it is useful and valuable for the establishment climate if one is part of a reliable, large and economically productive kingdom. The financial markets are, of course, price it. I also think that there are very practical economies of scale, such as the consular tasks of the embassies, defence and so on. The constellation will not be exactly the same as it is now in 25 years' time, but I think that for a set of reasons the future of the countries and the three other islands in the Kingdom is one of commonality with the Netherlands. That brings me to the first point I want to say a little bit more about: the constellation. On paper, it is very simple: four autonomous and equivalent countries which together carry out a number of tasks in a limited number of areas. As has already been discussed extensively in the first period, there is an asymmetry that, if you break it apart properly, falls apart into three asymmetries. The first is size. 98% of the inhabitants of the Kingdom live in the European Netherlands. This means that when you assume the normal principles of more or less proportional representation, organs soon consist of a lot of people from the European part of the Netherlands. I took it back just for a joke. One could say that in the National Council of Ministers there is a twenty-fivefold over-representation of ministers from some other countries. But that is of course no different. Such a ministerial council has a certain size. This is due to the fact that there is a large asymmetry in population size. The second asymmetry concerns the use of money and manpower and the taking of risks, including personal when it comes to violent situations. Wherever it says "the Kingdom" you can read: the Netherlands. If there is an addition to the police force at Sint-Maarten, it is for the most part and in fact from the Netherlands. The third asymmetry is that the four countries are in a constellation that can only be changed by consensus. The exception is that former colonies can always choose a greater distance from such a context when that is really the persistent desire of the population. This does not apply to the Netherlands. This situation is, of course, the result of history and it is also enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. I say to Mr Fritsma that this does not mean that the Dutch people have nothing to say about what we are doing in this connection. For example, budget support for the other countries in the Kingdom has been reduced to zero in recent years. Moreover, we have every right to say to the other countries: we are doing something together, but we are also sticking to each other's laws and regulations that we have established together. In my opinion, there has been a tendency in the past to look away in the vein of 'that's the way things are'. We do not need to include ourselves in that. In recent years, we have not tried to do so from the Dutch Government either. We do it together, but we do it within the framework we have established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u3	This is exactly the big pain point for the PVV: the Dutch people must not unilaterally break the current ties with the islands. The Minister acknowledges this and points out the asymmetry, but he cannot accept it. Surely the Minister should not ignore the democratic right of 17 million Dutch people, who are now simply excluded from this very important issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u4	I do not just think it should be because it has to be from the United Nations. I also endorse the underlying reasoning of the United Nations. The islands have not chosen to establish a political link with this part of Europe. That's a product of history. None of us in this Chamber is personally responsible for this, but it is the way it has happened. That brings with it responsibilities. As long as the countries appreciate it and comply with the rules in force within the Kingdom, I do think it is justified that the Netherlands should contribute to this. Once again, this does not have to be that we finance the budgets of other countries. We stopped doing that a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u5	The minister says he doesn't know what the ties look like in 25 years' time, but at the same time he says he doesn't want to let go of the UN clause and the relationship. In other words, very little is happening. If you're talking about family ties, then there's a forced marriage. That's never supposed to happen, is it? A forced marriage can never be healthy, can it? Surely one of the marriage partners needs minimal control to go through with that marriage or not? That is the point of principle here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u6	I was thinking more of other family relationships, like brother-sister relationships, which have never been based on a choice. Anyway, let's not go too far with that comparison. Mr Fritsma ignores the fact that not only the Netherlands can have views about the constellation, but also the other countries. In a number of other countries of the Kingdom, political parties regularly turn their heads saying: we want to become independent. So far, that has not been the dominant wish. I think that is also sensible, but I do not rule out the fact that at some point people say: everything is going our own way, for example because the interference from The Hague is not desirable. That's what happened to Suriname. I hope this doesn't happen, but it can happen. There is currently financial supervision in the other countries according to the National Financial Supervision Act. I imagine that at some point the finances will be so organized that you won't need it anymore. In this way, the involvement on each other's finances decreases. I think that would be a desirable trend. In this context, I would like to comment briefly on the commonest construction that Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman have advocated before. It looks a lot like the construction we now have and in which we are also working together. The difference is that Article 43 will no longer exist and that each of the countries will then have the right to say, perhaps at a period of notice, that we will not interfere with this anymore. That can only be achieved if the other countries want it. I don't feel like that's the case. That is the situation at the moment. I have two further comments to make on the constitutional constellation. One comment is topical, relates to Bonaire and is part of the discussion about whether or not to distance. The Chamber knows there will be a referendum in November. Mr Van Raak rightly corrects me, outside the microphone: it is in December; I believe him immediately. In that referendum, the question is, in my own words, whether the way in which Bonaire's role in the Netherlands is to be fulfilled is desirable. We need to see what comes out of that. It could be that the answer is no. In that case, it appears that the intention is to organise a follow-up referendum on different options. That should leave the Dutch government to the island for a while. A referendum can be organised. I do like to say that of course an island always has the space to choose a greater distance within the constellation we have, but not all mixing lubrications are possible. In the current situation, Bonaire is a public body, a municipality of the Netherlands. This means that if you deduct the tax revenue from it, about €10,000 per head of the population will be invested in infrastructure, education and care. This is because departments here in the Netherlands feel responsible and because ministers are also politically responsible for what is happening there. That has its drawbacks; I call it interference from The Hague. However, it also has advantages, namely that things are happening, that expertise and resources are coming to them. I can see it all for now. We're gonna have to look into it. It is on the island, but not all combinations of all alternatives are possible. Finally, on the Caribbean Netherlands, Mrs Hachchi and Mr Segers asked whether the cabinet response to the evaluation, which will be presented by Mrs Spies on Monday, could not come six months earlier. I recorded that with my people. We think it should be possible and that we can come up with that response before the summer of 2016. If there are still financial implications, then we can include them in the Spring paper. Then that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u7	I'm happy with the latter, because I've also heard stories that it might take another year. I am therefore pleased that this has been brought forward and that we can discuss this in good time. But I also have a question about that commonwealth option. Mr Van Raak has also protected himself with this. He mentioned this to Mr Fritsma as an option for which he, together with the VVD Group, was committed. Is that a serious option for the Minister? Is the commonwealth construction subject of conversation, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u8	The cabinet has taken note of this. I have noted that the desire to apply for it does not exist in the other countries. Since we also agree that such a thing should be introduced by consensus, it is not discussed at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u9	Should we simply conclude that we are putting an end to this, unless, on the other hand, the question is to talk about the commonwealth?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u10	Yes, but I would point out that, of course, this is not theoretical, because there are indeed large political parties who say at least before the elections that they want to follow. You never know how that goes at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u11	I did not quite understand the Minister's assessment of 10-10-10. I asked for six months. If we want to discuss this with the Minister before the summer, I would like to propose April. Then we're talking about six months. I would like to ask a question in response to the Minister's words about how we deal with each other within the Kingdom. I immediately included his words: we must do it together within the Kingdom, not look away and keep each other sharp within the frameworks. I can only agree with that. In practice, however, I take it as follows: we are not doing anything with the requests for capacity enhancement, for example in the area of security and justice, and then we are acting after that whole period of inaction. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u12	I'm meeting my people right now to do that before the summer. That's not exactly six months, but what's the matter? It's June and otherwise it's April. I'll do my best to do it sooner, if I can. I would like to limit the commitment to this, because that is how I have discussed it with others. We will have to coordinate this policy response with the other islands and with the other departments, so it really is not a question of sending a letter. I'm gonna need some time. I've taken that back from a year to a half-year. Thank you for taking note of those words. It's nice that we agree on that, but I don't agree that we're doing nothing. We have just launched a whole programme on St.Maarten to invest 22 million in strengthening law enforcement, focusing on integrity and all kinds of other areas. We'll get to that in a minute. We do a lot of things. I also do not agree with the fact that we are simply resorting to blunt instruments, but perhaps we should move that discussion to the time when we are discussing the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u13	We will certainly be discussing this in the opinion of the Council of State and in the request for information. I care about how we deal with each other within the Kingdom. Yes, steps are being taken now, but I would nevertheless like to see the words that the Minister is doing here again in practice. This means that we do not abandon signals from the islands in terms of aid, capacity, knowledge and skill to come up with a clue months later. That's the signal I'd like to send to this minister. It would be nice if the Chamber had been able to discuss the evaluation with the Minister before the summer; hence the proposed deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u14	I fully agree with Mrs Hachchi, except for the implication that we would not agree when asked to do so. We'll be on Isla soon, where we've gained expertise. The Ministry of Finance is ready to strengthen the tax authorities in Aruba where they can and when requested. We do this all the time, but I agree with the spirit of her words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u15	The Minister spoke of referenda. He said that options are being presented to the people of the islands and that not every option can just happen. So far, referendums have been organised without consultation. At Saint-Eustatius there was such a referendum. In my opinion, there has been no consultation with the Netherlands or with the National Council of Ministers on the options that have been put forward. Shouldn't there be a procedure, an elaborate way of working? Sint-Maarten talks about independence in 2020. A referendum will be held on Bonaire. Should we not first look at the options and not just present real options to the population? Otherwise, such a referendum is very difficult to point at.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u16	There is a difference between Bonaire, which is part of the Netherlands, and Sint-Maarten, which is really another country with another government. I share Mr Van Laar's consideration, but I think that the best way to get democracy to do its job as much as possible and not to interfere unnecessarily with it is to do what I do now and say: remember that when options are chosen that have not been discussed in advance, in the case of Bonaire with the Dutch Government, such a referendum cannot bind the Dutch Government. If one does not choose any real variants, that is the commitment of the board of directors of Bonaire and should then be discussed. This must be borne in mind when choosing those options. I do not think it would be wise for the Dutch Government to say: these are the options.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u17	These are often two options: the current situation or a new relationship, closer to or further away from the Netherlands. Such a referendum is a great moment. You will not go into a referendum with an option that is not feasible, give the people all kinds of wrong information and create all kinds of expectations and then confirm the image "the big brother Netherlands does not allow what we really want," because an option has been presented that could not at all. In order to avoid that, it would be nice to have a prior consultation. So maybe it's an idea to agree with the islands that at least they're trying to do so or to ask them to do so at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u18	I agree with the spirit. In the case of Bonaire, there has of course been a political campaign by parties that have promised their voters: when we come to power, there will be a referendum. That is now cut in half by first asking "are you satisfied with the constellation today?', With the communication that if the answer were to be no in the majority, there would be alternatives. I would like to say that, should that first referendum lead me to vote for alternatives, I will have an intrusive conversation with Bonaire's board to hear from them what they consider to be alternatives. I say it somewhat reluctantly, because as soon as we get the impression that we are going to decide from The Hague what we can vote on and from which one may choose, that might raise resistance. It is therefore primarily up to the political government of Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u19	I have a question about the commonwealth. Mr Van Raak and I made that note precisely because we, as representatives of our constituents, believe that the people should have some choice. One must be able to say which way one wants to go. We did not specifically give the note to the cabinet, because we do not think that the cabinet is about it either, because it has no control over it. That is why we have said that we are doing this together. I do not understand Mr Segers' reaction. He says we have to put an end to it. Once again, the cabinet is not about that. I still think we should start talking about that. I heard the Minister say in his own words that he would find independence unwise and that it would not be his choice. But those are also comments that are not really appropriate to this minister. It is up to the parties and countries to make choices as to the possible desire for independence. Otherwise, we look with our Dutch glasses at the wishes of the islands, and they may be in a very different way. I do not think it is right for us to judge that. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u20	First of all, I did not accept Mr Segers' words that there should be an end to it. I'll leave it in the middle. In doing so, I respond to Mr Bosman's wishes. He then asked whether it was up to me to determine whether it would be unwise for the countries to want to leave the Kingdom. I believe that this fits within my responsibility as Minister of Kingdom Relations. Technically, a country only has to call and can get it out. That's been said. The same goes for marriages, of course. If you go home tonight, Madam President, and you say to your husband, "you just have to call and you can go," you're almost gone. That's not the way you deal with each other in a stable relationship. As Minister of Kingdom Relations, I therefore assume that is my observation; I have also explained that it is good for the countries on the other side of the ocean that they are in the Kingdom. At the same time, I note that they do have the right to choose a greater distance. I agree with that, but I also note that there are political parties who are opposed to different views, and that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u21	I think the essence of the decolonization process was to "come to." Then it is not convenient to say that it is not wise to become independent. In my opinion, it is the task of the Netherlands to ensure that these people are given as much space as possible to become independent. Nor should we pretend that keeping within the Kingdom is the best thing. In my view, it is the decolonisation mission to ensure that people get so far that they are able to strike a balanced balance in complete freedom and space. The Minister makes his own comments, but I do think he should be reluctant to say whether that is wise or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u22	I'm trying to avoid the word independence. We're talking about autonomy. The countries are already autonomous within the Kingdom, with a number of comments. I have been with the King and the Queen on a journey of introduction to the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. People there really experience that as their king and queen, as much as here. They feel, however symbolic, part of one stately connection, the Kingdom of the Netherlands. I think that as Minister of Kingdom Relations, I should really have the space to stand for that constellation, with respect for political parties who say that they want it to be different in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u23	That's right. Our king is also the king of Aruba, is also the king of Curaçao and also the king of Saint Martin. He is the king of four countries. On the contrary, I am incredibly positive in the discussion on the commonwealth. Mr Bosman and I have started a discussion in this Chamber. This is also being considered within the parties. I also notice, in particular, that there is a great deal of thought on Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, perhaps not in the States, perhaps not immediately with a whole debate, but a lot of thought is being given to this in political parties. That's what happens in the media. Very prominent politicians on the islands take the idea seriously. I do not see the need to close the debate, but I see the beginning of a debate, which is also taking place in the other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u24	I do not contradict that; I believe that I have just confirmed this. At the same time, I believe that there are political forces on both sides of the ocean who want to move away from a Kingdom alliance, which, as Minister of Kingdom Relations, make it possible for me, once in a while, to take the opportunity to explain the benefits of the link for all four countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u25	This minister is also the Minister of Relations, that's right. I immediately acknowledge that this is sometimes quite difficult, especially within the Kingdom. I'll come back to the Bonaire referendum. It has just been said that we need to ensure that people ask real questions and put real things, not things that can't. I'd be very much in favour of leaving that to the people at Bonaire. I think it is most purely that if the people on Bonaire or on Statia want to make a statement, they do so mostly. Whether it can or can't, it's up to them. That is a responsibility they want to take on themselves. A people always has the right to choose their own future. A choice of a future is also a choice of a particular responsibility. I would let that go as far as I can, and I shall try to do so in the words of the Dutch Minister, Mr Delors, as little interference as possible from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u26	Now Mr Van Raak is forcing me to hang a little bit to keep that course. The word "people" is difficult in this context. People on Bonaire, Statia and Saba are Dutch, residents of the country Netherlands, although on the other side of the ocean. I therefore agree with Mr Van Raak that they can organise a referendum themselves and that their political governance can decide what the commitment of the referendum will be. I would like to make a few comments. Whether they are realistic options will have to be demonstrated afterwards. But I agree with what Mr Van Laar has just said: it is annoying for the population to have to choose between alternatives without knowing whether this is a realistic option in the context of the Netherlands. If alternatives are mentioned, I am prepared to discuss them. I will not do that until after, because the lead is in the political administration there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u27	The Minister continues his speech. At the end of each block, let us check whether there is a need to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr. Chairman. Not all cubes are the same length. The following is rather brief and concerns the point made by Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I would like to discuss it separately because it is important. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked why we are not letting all these countries borrow at the low interest rate at which the Netherlands can borrow. Two of the three countries do. Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are eligible for the current registration. I've just been looking at the latest figures: about 1.5% interest. Aruba itself borrows on the capital market at 6% interest. That's four times as much. The interest charges on Curaçao and Saint Martin are in the order of 3%, while those on Aruba are 15%. Of every euro received there, a seventh goes to the interest costs of the old debt. This puts you in a kind of chicken or egg situation: how do you get the budget in order when you have to use 15% of it each time to pay off your old debts? For this reason, in the White Thursday agreement, we agreed that there would be a form of separate financial supervision for Aruba: the CAft. Its objective is to balance the budget on a sustainable basis. The agreement is that, if so, current tenders will be eligible, i.e. for much lower interest rates. I would like to add that the chicken or egg problem is never going to bring it up on its own. That is why I would like to go so far as to say that, when the supervisor's conclusion, the CAft, is that there is a sustainable approach to bringing the budget into balance, even if it is not yet fully balanced, I am prepared to take the advice of the CAft to Mr Dijsselbloem and say: this is going so far as to ensure that we should now be able to give the last push to make Aruba eligible for the current registration. But it's not that. I therefore agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that it is ultimately sin money to pay that high interest. However, the market rightly praises it, so apparently one still sees a risk. We are not just gonna take over, so that needs to be reduced first. After that, we can indeed consider the current registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u29	Was this the end of the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u30	This is the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u31	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u32	I think this is a hopeful sound, because I agree with the Minister that agreements that have been made before should not just be abandoned. However, I would ask the Minister to take one step further. Let's say we really get a good look at everything being put on everything. Sometimes it's hard. On the Dutch side it is sometimes disappointing; then something happens that the net does not succeed. But if we really see that a country is doing everything it can to get to a good point, wouldn't it be a very good encouragement and really help people if we do everything we can to get to a good point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u33	Perhaps we are saying the same thing, because I believe Mrs Van Toorenburg also wants to see that order. First of all, we want to see the budget improve. Now there is 9% deficit and an 80% public debt. That is more than double compared to the other countries, because there it is 35%. There is something that needs to be significantly improved first. If things are really moving in the right direction, maybe at some point you can try the current registration to push it further in the right direction. But that must be the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u34	Can the Minister at least inform the Chamber as soon as he sees reason to speak about it? Then we can see if we can find each other that the time is right there to try and help a country that is doing its best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u35	That's what I'm telling you. I would add that, of course, the CAft is among them. We'll never do anything against the advice of the CAft. However, the CAft is in the process of thinking; we have also noticed this in other countries. The CAft is also inclined to say at a decisive moment: it must be possible under conditions. That's what we're waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u36	I'm happy about that. It's really an expression of good will. It helps Aruba. My question concerns the intermediate step of the CAft. I understand that the CAft has now been asked to look at whether the situation is moving in the right direction, towards sustainable, sustainable public finances. If the light goes green, the Dutch government will borrow at lower interest rates. Do I understand the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yeah, and that's not a question at one time. It's not a snapshot. From now on, just as the Cft does in Curaçao and St.Maarten, the CAft will periodically review the budget and the account. That is a trajectory, and it will never be the case that on the next occasion they say: do it now. So I do not want to create excessive expectations either. There is still a great deal to be done with the budget and the bill of Aruba before we get close to something that is even remotely balanced in the budget. I hope, however, that somewhere in that route it will get to the point where the CAft signals that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u38	Then we'll have to be a little more specific. What is the perspective that the minister presents in time? Are these certain percentages that need to be met? Is that the insight of the CAft: now it's really going the right way and we're giving it an extra push so the interest rate can go down? At what time could the choice be made? That's what we need to be very specific about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u39	I can't tie it to numbers. I'm gonna stick with the choice of words I used. There is a structural, sustainable approach to budgetary balance. I also leave the discretion to the CAft to assess whether this is the case. It's not weeks or months. We are now in the budget for this year and it has yet to be implemented. So I do not want to create excessive expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u40	I'm a little freaked out because the Minister says that the CAft is sometimes in the mood. In my view, we have hard agreements in the National Financial Supervision Act which budgets have to comply with. It's as simple as that. The same goes for Aruba. There's a white thursday chord that one just has to comply with. I can imagine that, if there is a moment in the future when we find that there is a long and careful movement in the right direction, the CAft will not take that decision. This must comply with those strict standards within the agreed laws. I can imagine that the request will then come to the Chamber, as Mrs Van Toorenburg also said, to make the request here. Once again, it is not the task of the CAft to make the discretional judgment that one goes in the right direction. I'd like that confirmed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u41	I confirm that the CAft doesn't decide. The College advises the National Council of Ministers. The Chamber can hold me to account here for the decisions taken in the National Council of Ministers. There is, however, a window of interpretation, on which we have previously had an exchange of views. I know that Mr Bosman is on the side where it is said that as little as possible should be done away with the extremely strict and strict criteria. I'll pass those signals on to the people at the CAft. I must say that I have the greatest confidence in what is being done there. They also regularly reject plans, criticise them or say they need to be improved. We have seen this recently at St Martin's. It is therefore a strict regulator, but it is also one that properly excludes the circumstances in the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u42	But that's not the intention, because discounting creates a black box from which ultimately comes the view that the loan is allowed at a Dutch interest rate. That brings that loan to our budget. That's not the deal. The deal is, they either meet or they don't. If they do not meet, one can always discuss whether a loan at Dutch rate is possible, but that is what we decide here. That is then a political choice. If they don't meet, they don't meet. It's as simple as that. In the opinion of the VVD, the space to create all kinds of grey areas and to put the CAft in the mindset is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u43	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u44	The question is, how do I feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u45	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u46	Well, that was one question after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u47	I'm just in the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u49	First of all, for the record, I would like to point out that the CAft is giving an opinion. It's the National Council of Ministers that decides that. I can answer here if I wish. If a loan is granted to Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, a loan is now granted to Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. That is also why we do not agree in advance, because then you will of course guarantee that loan, and that could, in the worst case, mean that the Netherlands is left with the problem if something goes wrong in such a country. That's exactly why we don't just say, "Oh, why don't you take our low loan?'. After all, you take the risk and we do not want it to be covered by financial supervision. That is what we have done with the White Thursday agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u50	We asked for this. I therefore thank the Minister for this line. We wholeheartedly support them. I wonder if the Minister shares my feeling that there is less hope that this will happen soon. Two years or one and a half years ago, and last year in fact, I had the hope that Aruba really was putting its own house in order. However, the new plans refer to a kind of private partner or public-private construction in which Aruba lends a billion guilders for the future to build four-lane roads and so on. When you see that, it does not seem that the country is very much aware of the fact that it is almost bankrupt, that money needs to be handled in a sparing manner and that it needs to be put in order quickly. I'm hoping the country will see that for itself, losing a little bit. I wonder how the Minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u51	I hope Mr Van Laar understands that I want to stay away from that. The CAft is in the middle of judging that. Mr Van Laar has the room to express his hopes and expectations. However, I do not think that is up to me, also because others, including investors and people in financial markets, are listening. So I don't want to go into that right now. I hear what Mr Van Laar is saying and leave it with him. It would be a good idea to bring the budget closer to balance as quickly as possible. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u52	It would be a good idea for the Council of Ministers to give an opinion on this construction in due course as a result of the reporting of the CAft. The fact that you can borrow a huge amount of money through constructions in the future without counting for the current budget because this loan does not happen to fall down in those years is difficult to reconcile with financial supervision, isn't it? That will have to be clarified at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u53	I think that's a reasonable question. I'll lead it to the CAft. I refer to previous discussions with Mr Bosman on whether budgetary surveillance, which is strictly the responsibility of the CAft, means that it also looks at loans. The answer was affirmative at the time. So it is now, because that is, of course, the context in which such a budget has to be assessed. I come to the next block, which has been discussed quite a lot: the Council of State's information on state relations and, in particular, on the guidance that can be given from the National Council of Ministers. First of all, I think it is a good, clear statement and also a framework in which I fully agree. This information does not assess cases against that framework. This naturally means that everyone can start looking for case X or Y and what might be the view of the Council of State in this context, but that is the explanation we must give. For the record: an individual case is not tested against anything. Specific questions have been asked about the designation given to the Governor of Aruba to have the budget examined before approving it. I have previously written to the Chamber that I believe that this indication is perfectly legitimate in this case too. I found support on a number of points. I'd like to highlight two. Firstly, there is the alert, and this has never been put on paper in such a way that the guarantee function not only means that the State Council can intervene if good governance, human rights or democracy are no longer the case, or if something disastrous has happened, but also if there is, and I quote, 'a real threat of unacceptable degradation'. So there must be a threat, and it must be real. If that's the case, there's a basis for a clue. Mrs Hachchi rightly summarized this as: you must not wait to dampen the well until the calf has drowned. That's what it says here. So you can say in the route to it that there must be an indication in the context of the guarantee function. Next, the framework states that those indications should not confer powers that are not there. So you have to confine yourself to the existing powers. An explanation of this is, for example, "focused on research and temporary measures aimed at combating or preventing situations" with a reference to Article 43, second paragraph. Research and a temporary measure are therefore permitted under the governor's regulations. That's exactly what happened. There was a budget for which the IMF, the advisory board and ourselves here in the Netherlands said it was not real and not going in the right direction. Aruba's government debt had doubled by now. The budget was adopted by the States, which is also a relevant political fact. We then told the governor: we advise you, we give you an indication that, before you decide whether or not to sign, you are fully aware of and are investigating the reality of this budget. That is the least far-reaching intervention that can be done from the Trêveszaal. Any other intervention goes much further: to reject the budget or, in a different context, to reverse the appointment of a minister. These are far-reaching interventions in autonomy. We have deliberately chosen to do the minimal intervention: to give the governor a lead. In my opinion, this is fully covered by the frameworks provided by the Council of State. And yet I agree with everyone who says that this must be done only when there is a real threat of an unacceptable violation of the principles set out in Article 43. This is the case, for example, where a country is likely to find itself financially in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u54	Being right and right are two different things, especially in politics. I think that is what the Minister means when he says that there are no cases in the information request, which has a little to do with this. Without mentioning cases, I think the information request is so clear that you can put it next to the cases we have seen in recent years. I have two questions. I'll come back to the dispute settlement, but I'll start with the guarantee function. The Minister can quote the phrase, but he does not do it in full. When it comes to threats, it must be a systematic and in-depth structural breach of the protective values we have in the Statute. Was that what you were talking about? The Minister does not have to deal with all cases, but I would like to hear whether the Minister is taking lessons from the way in which it has gone so far in relation to the words of the Council of State. As far as the governor is concerned, too, I would like to hear whether the Minister is taking lessons on the basis of what is stated in the request for information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u55	My answer to the first question is very brief, namely: yes. I believe that there has been a systematic and in-depth breach of Aruba's financial stability, as budgetary debt continued to increase in successive years, despite warnings and previous agreements. Now all the facts are on the table. I have seen that Mr Van Laar asked Mrs Hachchi in the first place whether, in view of these facts and what is ahead, there was a real threat of unacceptable deterioration. It all ended well on its feet. I don't want to make it bigger either. I am glad that we are now on a good path with the Aft (Aruban financial supervision). It has been decided in common. Looking back, however, I do not think it is wrong that we did this. I wonder if Mrs Hachchi sees this differently, but I can't ask questions, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u56	I do not wish to waste my second interruption by repeating that I also pointed out the direction to the governor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u57	I think the governor of Aruba was also strengthened by this clue. He's in a complicated field of forces and can now say he's been given a lead to investigate this. In general terms, I certainly agree that we must be extremely careful about the role of the governor. On the following subject, the political situation in Saint Martin, this will also be one of the building blocks of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u58	I did not expect this minister to say now that what we have done so far is wrong. So I could have expected his answer. However, I did not ask for nothing whether the Minister would draw lessons from the request for information on how he will apply Article 43 on the guarantee function in the future. That guarantee function is an ultimatum remedium. In my view, these two words are also oblique in the request for information. All other roads must have been walked, in cooperation with the country in question, before you intervene with a clue. That is my first point. My second point concerns the directions to governors. I have given two concrete examples. You can't give a governor new powers through a lead. That's what happened. A governor may not hold a budget provided by a country regulation. The rules say you can't. He must fix the budget or forward it to the Kingdom Government. Those are the procedures, but in either case they have not been followed. I do not expect this Minister to say that this was illegal, but I do expect him to learn some lessons for the future from the request for information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u59	In order to be able to draw those lessons, I have just informed Mrs Hachchi whether, looking back, she believes that the designation should not have been given to the Governor of Aruba. I didn't hear her say that, although it looks like it in this last interruption. I'm very clear. Looking back, I think there was a risk of a systematic breach of Aruba's financial stability. I believe that there has been action within the framework. I say this on the basis of the information provided by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u60	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u61	This brings me to another pressing issue, which is also mentioned in the Council of State information, but which I wanted to discuss separately, namely the dispute settlement. The Statute of the Kingdom says there must be one. I think we all agree that there should be a dispute settlement. Ideally, this should be achieved by consensus. That is not certain, by the way. Strictly speaking, a national law can also be adopted unilaterally, at least by a majority in the National Council of Ministers. However, it seems to me that no one will be happy about that. The objective is therefore that it should be done by consensus. However, there was then a dispute about how to do this and there is no dispute settlement to settle this dispute. That is why there has been a stalemate in this area for five years. The contours of the conclusions drawn by the IPKO were extremely useful in this respect. We have also taken this as a starting point for our conversation. We've gone on for the last time until deep into the evening. "We" are then the prime ministers of the three countries and I. We haven't reached an agreement. Then we decided to meet again within three months to try again. Now the case is that two of the three prime ministers are no longer present. Of course, I speak to the prime ministers all on a regular basis, but their heads are not in the first place. Moreover, I understand that it is not yet certain whether the Prime Minister of the largest Caribbean country, Whiteman, will remain Prime Minister. So it doesn't make much sense to go into the route now if we have to talk to someone else about it again in one or two months. I would have liked to have an administrative consultation on this by now, but that has not yet happened. I'll do my best to get this done as soon as possible. Fresh two is of course whether this leads to results. We have discussed this recently in a general discussion, but I shall be speaking here in plenary. It is an important subject. An important question is who would be presented with the disputes. The position of the Dutch Government is that there is actually only one body that has the constitutional anchoring, composition and method of appointment for this and that includes people from different countries, namely the Council of State. However, this proved to be a stumbling block for the other three countries. We have also talked for a long time about what has been discussed by the members of the Interparliamentary Conference, namely the suggestion that in the event of a strict legal interpretation of the Statute there should be a decisive settlement; otherwise it should be a serious opinion. I called the president of the IPKO before the negotiations and asked where I would have to see the limitation of the strict legal interpretation of the Statute. He gave an example of the fact that there had not been any further consultations under the Staff Regulations and that there had been a dispute. I get that. Then it is almost the re-iteration of what is in the Statute. In the negotiations with other countries, however, it appeared to me that they included the whole discussion we were discussing, namely whether Article 43 (2) is up to date. Is this a budget that is out of balance, for example, or is it a violation of integrity in country X? Then you are no longer talking about a strict legal interpretation of the Statute, but about a full profession, a full assessment of the current situation. I would like to be clear about this: the Dutch Government does not think it wise to lay down the decisive powers for this elsewhere, for the reasons I started my speech. When we get to the point, 98% of the costs are borne by the Netherlands. When it comes to whether or not to take financial risks in Aruba, I believe that the National Council of Ministers should be in a position to have a view on this and that this cannot be invested anywhere with decisive powers. So this is also the subject of discussion. I will conclude by emphasising a temporary arrangement, which I have already presented at that time and which I still want to support. That dispute settlement, that state law, must be established, but a lot of water will have to flow through the Rhine before it does. Why not set up a provisional arrangement covering all disputes? In doing so, any dispute in which a country feels disadvantaged by a decision in the National Council of Ministers is submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. This will then have a suspensive effect; the decision-making process will therefore be suspended. That advice is heavy and will be returned to the National Council of Ministers. We can organise such an arrangement next month. That can be done by a simple decision. In the end, the countries have chosen not to do so. I'm sorry to hear that. Their concern is that the National Council of Ministers would take such serious advice on its own. I suggested they give it a try. I expect that this will not be the case, especially if it is a public opinion. It will, of course, play a very important role, because who in the Trêveszaal would like to take a decision which the Council of State says is unlawful? Isn't that what you're actually forcing the National Council of Ministers to take a new decision or reconsider? So it seems to me an interesting arrangement. I would say: let's try it for a year or two; then we can always see if it turns out to be an empty shell. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u62	For everyone, it is clear that this dispute settlement needs to be established. We've been through the many discussions and arguments, to a hunger strike. All this has to do with the fact that we haven't arranged how we deal with disputes. Last year we also discussed with the Minister how necessary this dispute settlement is. That was, of course, in the budgetary procedure. And where is this arrangement now? I note, also in view of the Minister's wording, the intermediate position and the signals we are getting from the islands, that we cannot find each other quickly. To get some movement in that, I suggest we use the next instrument. I don't know if it's a solution, but isn't it an idea to give a committee the role of mediator to smooth the folds? That commission will include people who have earned their spurs within the Kingdom, people from both sides of the ocean who know what's going on. It is also a question of whether people are willing to come together. Is there such willingness? I have doubts about that. Is it an idea to use a form of mediation in this way so that progress can be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mrs Hachchi mentions this case of an extreme situation, of a hunger strike. If there had been an opportunity to submit an urgent opinion to the Council of State for a serious opinion in this case, this would probably have helped greatly in resolving that situation. So I think it would be useful to do something like that. Mrs. Hachchi is talking about a committee. Honestly, I've been thinking about that, too. I used the word "sherpa's" a year ago. I learned that from the State Department. I said, can't we all point out a sherpa? We did. We've told all the prime ministers to point out to someone you say can do business on your behalf. We did, but it didn't work out. At the end of the day, we sat together with the prime ministers and had to conclude that you really have to take decisions like this, committing your country and jumping over something. The bottlenecks are clear. It is clear on what points we do not agree on yet. So I think another committee is slowing it down even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u64	It is clear that the countries here must decide and come out together. I am talking about mediaton to at least get the willingness to go a little bit more in the right direction. I can mention a number of names of people who would be suitable for that, but the Minister can also think of them. I would therefore like to consider this idea to the Minister. I am not thinking of a committee that slows things down, but of a committee of people who can come to people to finally get that willingness so that the countries can cut their knots.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u65	I'd like to reconsider every good thought. So I'm taking the thought with me. I gotta tell you, my gut is like this. You end up sitting at the table with the four of you trying to come to a conclusion. Then everyone goes back to the grassroots, they come back and then they don't find each other. Mediation is especially necessary if you do not want to look each other in the eye or dare to look at each other or if the communication is not working properly. And that's not where this club hangs people on their own. So I do not know whether there will be a solution with that committee. In the end, it is about the will to do or not to do certain things. Anyway, I'll take the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u66	We all have that example in mind, which the Minister himself refers to: the hunger strike of the Prime Minister in Aruba. That is a situation that we all want to avoid. We hope this never happens again. I thank the Minister for his commitment. He says, "Let's start with a temporary arrangement." I find it disappointing that this is being held back by the other side, because you can indeed start. But of course the following is possible. If we find ourselves in a situation where there is a need for an indication, which is a great deal of resistance on the other hand, then we can unilaterally decide to submit it to the Council of State in advance for a serious opinion. This possibility can then be assessed in the light of the Statute. We can make that decision ourselves. Isn't that the Minister's freedom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u67	We do have that freedom. Mr Segers and I have spoken on this subject before. I therefore believe that we should make an arrangement for this. I am therefore prepared to do so if we agree with each other. I don't want to do that on an ad hoc basis, because suddenly you're giving the Council of State some kind of arbitration role when he doesn't have one. That would be improper. We can agree that with the four countries. We must then state in black and white how we act when there is a dispute, when a country feels disadvantaged. Then we must also agree on a proper procedure. Then it seems to me that the President of the National Council of Ministers will present it to the Council of State. In doing so, the country itself can provide input to the point where a dispute is experienced, so that there can be no misunderstanding about the objections that a country has. If we agreed on something like this in an orderly manner, I'd be willing to do it. But under those conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u68	On the one hand, the countries very much want a dispute settlement. We experienced that in the contacts during the IPKO. We all want that and everyone feels the need. But the tricky thing is that we are dealing at the same time with a prime minister who apparently says that it is not such a priority right now. I find it difficult to deal with these conflicting signals. Even so, we could take a step ourselves. Last year there was also a call here to submit it to the Council of State before we went on to make that designation. I would therefore like to draw the Minister's attention to the possibility of submitting it to the Council of State and launching it as a temporary arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u69	I do not want to put the Prime Ministers of other countries in the mouth that they would not give priority to it. Perhaps I have given reason to say so, but I take that back. I just wanted to say that the Minister of Public Health, Whiteman, was suddenly in the position of Prime Minister. I spoke to him shortly after. Those conversations weren't about this. Maybe it's the top priority for him. There is also talk about whether he is staying there or not. I'm gonna stay out of that right now. This is just my perception of the situation. But I am happy to take the step and record such an arrangement in black and white with each other in the National Council of Ministers. I think that would be a step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u70	So the Council of State has now given information on the appointment of the governors. I wonder if the Minister agrees with me that the way in which the Council of State has done this is a very good example of how he can explain to the law what is laid down in the Statute and regulations. Indeed, it goes beyond merely the ongoing consultations, which are also discussed. However, the Council of State may also specify all kinds of other frameworks. I can easily imagine that he can also examine cases in this way, without commenting on whether a budget deficit may be 3% or 5% for example. That is indeed a substantive consideration. The National Council of Ministers must then be prepared to listen to it. I sympathize with the Minister in his offer. I think it's a reasonable proposition. However, you have to come out with four countries. As long as that doesn't happen, you're gonna have to keep moving towards each other with some flexibility. Otherwise, it's never gonna happen. Isn't that why the government is willing to keep moving towards the islands? The principles set out in the IPKO may provide a basis for this. It has already been decided that it is a High College of State and that it must be binding. If the government were to go along with that, we would be a lot closer to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u71	To begin with, I have already said that the principles of the IPKO appeal to me. They also serve as a starting point. I do make a small, constitutional footnote to the word 'decisions': the IPKO does not, of course, bind the countries. Parliamentarians from different countries meet there, but it is the government that represents the country and the parliament that supervises whether the government does so correctly. But it is fine to take those points as a starting point. The other question was what this information from the Council of State says. However, the questions were asked by the House of Representatives. Information was requested by the Lower House at the Council of State. Mrs Hachchi said on this point that the Council of State was given these questions explicitly in connection with specific cases, but that it did not actually make the final weighing. I agree with her. Was it right or wrong to give that lead to the governor? So you can also read it as the inconvenience that arises when you take such a full, substantive test elsewhere. I wouldn't take this as an example anyway, but if you do, you can explain it in two ways. I think this shows that the Council of State is a sensible body, but I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u72	On the contrary, the Court did not ask for a ruling on those cases, but asked questions about general principles and frameworks. That's exactly what the Council of State did. However, it is easy to read in the information that the Council of State is also able to check a case very well on the legal explanation. I hope the Minister shares that trust with me. I think he will, because otherwise he would not have made the proposal that the Council of State should always advise. But how is the minister gonna get out of here? How are we going to find a solution and get the dispute settlement going? By sticking to the government's position alone, we will not reach agreement. Waiting for the islands to move can take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u73	Of course, I can only speak on behalf of one of the four interlocutors. We were closest to a result by starting what I call an experiment, whereby you agree without a state law that you give the Council of State a major advisory role, with suspensive powers and a public reporting. That could be the beginning of a solution. I think this will have a preventive effect. If the people in the Trêveszaal realise that all these matters are being submitted to the Council of State, which is going to give a public opinion, I think this will provide an incentive to get out of the National Council of Ministers in such a way that the countries can agree. Of course, no one wants the dirty laundry to be hung outside and public opinions are given on it. I therefore believe that the number of referrals will not even be that large. If an opinion is requested and the Council of State quite definitely says 'you cannot do this', then I do not expect the National Council of Ministers to overrule it. I think it is said: then we will have to take a different decision, because this is a very serious opinion. I therefore believe that such an experiment can provide inspiration for a final solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u74	The Minister continues. From now on, let us not take full account of the interruptions, but come quickly to the question. Then the Minister can answer quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u75	I come to the current situation on Saint Martin. Questions have been asked about this, among others by Mr Van Raak. I am, of course, trying to stay away from party politics on the ground. What happened is unusual. I thought it was an invigorating way of doing things. A motion of censure has been adopted against a government that was not present in the debate. I believe that at that time the Prime Minister represented the country at the United Nations. This would be unthinkable in the Dutch context. Three people have turned to the other side and suddenly a year after the elections, the majority have escaped from the government that sits there. Once again, without going into local politics, we have so far been able to find a good way of working with Prime Minister Gumbs, as well as with the incumbent Deputy Prime Minister. It rubs sometimes, but we've always come out. That's the way it should be. In general, it is of course good that there is some continuity at government level. That is the situation now. At Mr Van Raak's question, I say that it is not the case that I have advised the governor not to hold elections. I read that somewhere. I'm not gonna tell you what I'm gonna do with the governor. Two things are settled. Apparently, a motion of censure has been passed. Furthermore, Prime Minister Gumbs and his cabinet have said that they want elections. That request is now on the governor's desk. I have a lot of contact with him. Not every hour, but every day. I have every confidence in the governor's wisdom. That puts me at the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u76	Is it true that the governor can operate on his own? Or is it the case, from a constitutional point of view, that if a government decides to dissolve the parliament, the governor will have to agree to it, unless he receives a designation, an assignment or a suggestion from the Kingdom Government? The normal course of events is that the parliament is dissolved if the government so requests, unless the governor gets a suggestion from the Kingdom, an indication, not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u77	The latter is something else. In any case, land decrees require the governor to sign or refer the matter to the Crown. In practice, that's the National Council of Ministers. Can the governor move freely? Yeah, but it's within the constitutional framework that's been set for him. The Governor's Rules of Procedure are a state law. Furthermore, I refer to the Statute. I am fully convinced that the governor will move within those frameworks. On previous occasions, I have already noticed that he is keenly aware that his role and position depend entirely on him taking due account of the legal frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u78	I have the governor of Saint Martin very high. That's why I was a little surprised, because it looks like he decided that there wouldn't have to be elections, whereas it would have made more sense if he had forwarded that to the National Council of Ministers. Another question is whether the governor is advised by the Vice-President of the Council of State, the same Council of State that may be asked for an opinion on that whole process in the future. I would find it particularly impure if, at the same time, the Council of State, or members of it, were to act or act as advisor to the governor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u79	On the last point: there is no ban on the use of state councils for people who advise them. That applies to the governor, but it also applies to the Chamber. The Chamber has also recently requested an opinion from the Council of State. It also applies to the cabinet. I'm not aware of anything else, and if I was, I wouldn't be sharing with you who's been talking to who. It is not the case that state councils should not have talks with others in the Kingdom of the Netherlands. As for the first question, no decision has yet been taken by the governor. He's still having conversations. It turns out to me. You could indeed say that there is a stalemate. It was created on the one hand by the fact that three people have moved to the other side of the political spectrum, and on the other hand by the decision taken by the cabinet of Prime Minister Gumbs. He is now speaking to the various parties and will then, I presume, take a decision within the natural framework of state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u80	There's been some confusion right now. It is not clear whether the ministers are still in office. Is it a real country decision or is it not a country decision? If there is no clarity about the position of ministers, so is the Minister responsible. What is the result of that for the National Council of Ministers? Is she going there or not? Is she part of the National Council of Ministers? It is, of course, a matter of concern with regard to decision-making for the future if someone is sitting who is not a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u81	No other ministers have yet been sworn in and there is always a government, so the government that is now there is currently the government of Saint Martin. Article 33 of the State rules states the principle of trust. That is different from that of the Dutch constitution, because it does not know that, but it is laid down in the Sint-Maarten State Order. Indeed, it states that a minister who loses the confidence of the States must resign. However, there is no time limit. In fact, we can see that no new government has yet been set up. At present, ministers, including the Minister with special responsibility, are still in office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u82	There is no doubt about that, and that means that the country decision is a valid country decision. It automatically follows: or sign or forward it to the National Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u83	Then you're just asking me a little too much, namely to step into what the governor is now discussing. I don't want to get in his way, so I'm gonna leave the inferences to the governor of Saint Martin for now. I'm moving on to a complicated and difficult subject, the Isla refinery. That is complicated and difficult, because that refinery causes pollution that can and may have affected residents, possibly with health consequences. There's research that points to that. However, it is also true that the refinery accounts for 5% to 10% of Curaçao's gross national product and that it directly and indirectly involves some 2,000 jobs. So it's not a matter of closing that tent, but rather. No one here is arguing that either. It's a country matter. Public health and the environment are both areas of country-specific concern, but this does not relieve us of the obligation to provide assistance, as provided for in Article 36 of the Statute. We have provided and continue to provide that assistance. I'll mention a few things. With Dutch means, measuring stations have been placed that measure air pollution. An improvement path for the environmental service has been launched. A vision of the future has been drawn up about the refinery, the Ecorys report. TNO has carried out research into the composition of the green substance found. I sent a letter to the Chamber about that. The GGD will carry out measurements by January, which will be made available to the Government of Curaçao. Meanwhile, the government and the entire machinery on Curaçao are not standing still. There is a revised nuisance law permit in draft, which must be offered to the States. Curaçao must decide on the future of the refinery before 2019. The multidisciplinary team led by Werner Wiels is investigating the possibilities for modernising that refinery and is also tasked to see whether a gas terminal can be switched to instead of an oil terminal for energy supply. That would care a lot about the pollution. It is not so important to say that, with a simple intervention, Isla can be brought to the standards that, for example, the refineries in Pernis meet. The information I have previously shared with the Chamber is that if you wanted to bring the refinery all the way to the standard in force in the Netherlands, it would cost between 2 and 3 billion. That is about the gross national product of the country of Curaçao, so that has far-reaching consequences. I have often expressed my concerns about this, inspired by the Chamber. I have constantly offered the government that I would like to do so again in order to provide support and assistance in all ways and to provide expertise to address this problem. My conclusion, however, is that this item is also on the agenda. It's being demonstrated. Recently there was the Stop Isla Now demonstration, with a few hundred people. There have been and are being tried. Action groups are active and debated in the States. It's really a tricky subject, even in the politics of Curaçao, and that's where it belongs. Again, for our part, we will provide all the support that is humanly and reasonably possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u84	There are casualties. There really are casualties from this pollution. He's deadly. That has actually been the case for 12 years. Something happens occasionally, but it is far from enough to prevent casualties. We have been working on this for a long time. I think there can be two things going on: the government of Curaçao does not want to maintain, because the influence of the refinery is too great, or the government of Curaçao cannot maintain, because it simply does not have the capacity to do so. Of course, it is also possible that it is a combination of both. Is the Minister prepared to examine, within the framework of the Kingdom, whether Curaçao can and wants to see the problem become so big that it needs to be addressed within the framework of the Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u85	First of all, it is of course interesting that Mr Van Raak now insists on the use of the framework of the Kingdom, while we have just exchanged in the debate that he would like to move towards a looser link. But it is indeed the framework in which we are now sitting. That's right. Mr Van Raak says there are casualties. There's research that suggests that there could be casualties. However, I must also say that I have reported to the Court that a number of carcinogenic substances are not known to come from the refinery. There are other companies where they could also come from. Of course, it does listen closely. We should not be misunderstandings about this. I told you, it's a tough subject. It's extremely annoying for everyone. However, as a Dutch government, I am not going to say, in view of the consequences, financial and staffing, and in the context of state law, that the Netherlands is going to fix this or that the Netherlands is going to intervene and resolve it. That would not be justified and the government of Curaçao is not asking for that at all. On request, however, we are always prepared to provide assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u86	We have that responsibility within the Kingdom. Of course, it is not for nothing that the DOD withdraws the soldiers from the neighborhoods where the poison strikes. Go explain that to the people of Curaçao. I believe that after all these years we can conclude that whether the will or knowledge is not with the government of Curaçao, or possibly both. Does the Minister agree with me that, within the Kingdom, if there is such a violation of good governance, of people's health and perhaps human rights, there will also come a time when the Kingdom will be given a responsibility here?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr Van Raak is right in saying that the Defence Department has examined the situation and that the nuisance and potential health risks are such that their people are better placed to live a little further away. The other people who live there could follow that example. I realize they can't just do that, because not everyone has the money to move. It is another country and it is a free country, where people have freedom of movement. From here we cannot urge people to move to another place in Curaçao. This also applies to the intervention in the Kingdom relations which Mr Van Raak is now advocating. It would mean that I would give a clue to do something drastic there, with budgetary consequences that, according to my assessment, will run into the billions. We should therefore wear them, because you cannot impose them unilaterally and say that people should wear them themselves. I think there is no reason for this, not because I do not think the situation is serious, but because the situation is full on the political agenda. We were just discussing the assessment by the Council of State, which will never get the agreement that there is no redress, because it is fully on the political agenda there. I also think that the Netherlands should not do so, because this can have consequences that are not for the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u88	When I hear the Minister, I feel the temptation to say that there are several measures to be measured in intervention with a clue. I am not going to do that, because the interruption is too costly for that. If the Minister is talking about a thorny issue about the Isla refinery, that is the statement of the day. The problem of the Isla refinery for man and the environment has been a reality for decades. I didn't say in my input that I should always sigh when the Isla comes back on my retina. The Minister is talking about assistance, Article 36, and we are talking about people's health. I would not like to say that Article 43 is intervening, but I find it too easy for this Minister to take it off with: there is a lot of attention to it, Curaçao is working on it and they call if they need help or capacity. I believe that we, as the Kingdom, should be much more important in this regard. I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to look with Curaçao at the solution for this refinery; so not to wait until Curaçao comes up with something, but to participate actively himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u89	To be precise, human health, like caring for a good environment, is not a kingdom responsibility. A number of tasks have been allocated and this is the primary concern for the government of a country that can be monitored by the States of the country. If the people of the country think that this refinery should be closed down, they can vote for a political party that believes that action should be taken. It's full on the political agenda of Curaçao. I have just said that it is a difficult consideration. On the one hand, there are thousands of jobs in a non-rich country, and on the other hand there are serious environmental damage with possible health consequences. How do you deal with it then? I have just painted that this is on the political agenda in all kinds of ways. It's not like we're making an easy contribution. I am fully prepared to discuss this on any occasion. I recently met the new Prime Minister of Curaçao, who is also Minister of Health, and discussed this with him immediately. We're doing everything we can. However, we are not going to intervene in a country that does not ask for it. They are prepared to accept this assistance, and we are giving it to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u90	The Minister has used many words for it, but this problem is too big for Curaçao alone. This has to do with employment and the economy and its dependence. From that point of view, knowing what the damage is and knowing that this discussion has been going on for decades, I appeal once again to this Minister. He made a concession six months ago by saying that he is prepared to talk about this, but that is not enough. It is time for the Netherlands to think proactively in the direction of solutions that Curaçao is currently working on. I do not want the Netherlands to wait any longer, but now it is going to interfere in these solutions, because that is what we are all responsible for. We are one Kingdom, and I think the Minister can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u91	I admit it or have already promised it, but we must listen carefully. "Proactive" is fine with me, but "getting involved" sounds like we're saying: get out of the way, we're gonna do it. However, I am constantly prepared to provide all the assistance and assistance that is needed, and I am fully prepared to think about this and raise this point. I pledge to continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u92	Sometimes it helps enormously when the Minister answers questions that have not been asked or approach the problem in a different way, but sometimes it does not. No one has asked the Minister to apply the standards of Pernis and the Netherlands to Curaçao. At least I didn't ask the Minister to do that. No one has asked the Minister to go and buy the filters and to screw them into the installations on Curaçao so as to solve the problem. How are emission standards maintained? I think that's what happens by measuring. If the standards are exceeded, the drivers of these emissions will then be identified. They are informed that they are violating environmental standards and are then asked to adapt their behaviour. If they don't, the company will shut down. In the end, that's the conclusion. We ask the Curaçao government to do exactly that. However, that government does not seem to be prepared to do so. We asked the Minister to check that with the Curaçao government and to discuss it. Why is it not maintained and the company is not registered? If it proves that this is not happening, the question is whether it is not strange that we can intervene in failing to meet the financial standards, but not in failing to meet other standards. If Curaçao does not meet the financial standards, the Kingdom can intervene, but if Curaçao does not meet its own environmental standards, we do not think that will affect the credibility of the administration. These environmental standards are then suddenly an autonomous matter in which the Curaçao administration can proceed. I think that is unjustified and ambiguous.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u93	If I hear correctly, Mr Van Laar asks me to check. That's what I'm telling you. So I'll check with the Curaçao government. As far as I've been informed, there are legal proceedings on whether people comply with the law on nuisances. I believe that this case is in its entirety where it belongs, namely with the judiciary in Curaçao. However, let us not argue about this; I will check this and I will send a letter to the Chamber within two months. In that I will show the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u94	I was also talking about the difference between Curaçao and Curaçao that does not meet its own environmental standards. Why is the first one subject of sound administration and not the other? If financial standards are not met, it will affect people, but if environmental standards are not met, it may have even greater consequences for people. Why doesn't this touch on the merits of governance? Dignity of governance doesn't mean that you maintain your own standards in such a way that you don't let your own people suffer from certain activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u95	Not everything that affects people has become a matter of the Kingdom. I made a commitment. I will ask the government of Curaçao whether it is true that there is not written down where it should be. I will reflect this in a letter to the Chamber and give my own opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u96	I would like to continue on the last point. If one of the islands does indeed sink through the bottom and if that could have consequences for us, then that affects the guarantee function. Then that's an argument that could possibly lead to a clue. This has no direct impact on our health and our finances. Would it not be a very strong signal if we were as committed on this point as, for example, corruption, crime or inadequate financial management?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr Segers is actually asking the same question. I would like to point out, however, that the guarantee function does not mean that we can intervene in any situation in which the Netherlands feels that another country is doing something that is not sensible or not safe. Suppose there are unprotected rail crossings somewhere and there are consequences that could also endanger human lives. There are no trains there, by the way. If such a decision has been taken with conviction, if it has been supported by the States and elections over it and if it has been reviewed in a court of law if necessary, it could be a decision on which we say: we would do so differently. But in such a case, we cannot decide from the Binnenhof that we are going to do it differently. I can say, however, that I am fully committed to supporting this issue in a variety of ways. I already promised. I have just added that I will also examine the assessment of the current situation and I will write a letter to the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u98	Here too, we are getting different signals. On the one hand, we would be open to a discussion about this, but on the other hand, we hear that there are hesitations if we really offer assistance and say that we really want to come alongside. Wouldn't it help if the signal was sent here that this is too big for Curaçao? I quote Mrs. Hachchi. This is such a millstone and this has such an impact on health that we want to work with our full weight for this, to really take care of the health of the people there. That signal would be very helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u99	These hesitations in Curaçao naturally stem from the fact that we do not wish to interfere in national affairs. They're paying close attention to that. This applies to all countries in the Kingdom. I agree that this is a very big case. That's exactly why it can't be solved. For my part, I will do what I can without bringing that millstone to the Netherlands. That would not fit in with the division of responsibility either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u100	I suggest that the Minister finish his story now, so he handles the last blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u101	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief about the block "Venezuela." Mrs Van Toorenburg asked for that. I've been checking up on you. I am aware of the politically unstable situation in the largest neighbouring country in the Kingdom. Potentially, these could lead to large flows of refugees. The current information is that this is not yet the case. There are no long droops of refugees now. That doesn't change the fact that we're keeping a close eye on it. We have contacts with the authorities on Aruba, Curaçao and Bonaire. There are also emergency roadmaps. They can also be used if large flows were to come towards Bonaire. Finally, scenarios have been promised by my colleague Bert Koenders. I should like to refer to that. It's all over the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u102	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u103	I really suggest that the Minister finish his story, because there are still a lot of debates on the agenda tonight. How many pages does the Minister have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u104	This was the block "Venezuela." On the Caribbean Netherlands, I have discussed most of the issues in the recent review. I might be right to get to the debate by speaker under pressure from you. If I skip subjects, maybe you can pull my vest afterwards. Shall we do it like this? I see a nod in agreement. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosman asked about the roads: does the cabinet consider whether the investments made by I and M come to the right place? He added that there is no need to build four-lane roads. I agree that as much as possible should be done locally. I have brought this signal to the attention of Mr Schultz once again. I believe that this is clearly in the eyes of I and M. Mr Bosman asked whether we know whether the loans for Curaçao and Saint Martin are being used for the right purpose. It is the task of the CFT to look at the exhaustion of the money loans and the progress of investments in the quarterly reporting and financial statements. For example, the Cft can properly monitor what expenses are incurred with the loans and thus check whether they are used for what they are intended to be. That's part of the Cft. The Cft may be listening, but I will remind you once again that we attach great importance to the fact that this is happening properly. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the state of play at the school community in Bonaire. The first responsibility lies, of course, with the Secretary of State, but we are certainly talking about this in a coordinating sense. A partly new board has taken office. The advisory committee consists of Mrs Kete Kervezee, who is well known to us, and Mr Glenn Thodé. The committee visited the school community quite soon after the new board took office and had talks with the new board members and the board as a whole. The Committee also advised the Minister and the Secretary of State of OCW on whether the board is fit for this important and complex task. A number of follow-up steps have been taken: to put an end to the conflicts of interest between a number of board members, to fill out the vacant seat on the board, to improve the participation of the board in the Learning Programme. The Secretary of State for OCW will keep the Chamber informed of the progress made in this regard. Mr Van Laar asked for an inventory of the unjustified and unnecessary differences between the Caribbean part of the country Netherlands and the rest of the Netherlands. He was right to make all the connection with the evaluation. It can, of course, be discussed in this context. We'll see him soon. I would add that I think it is the responsibility of both the island authorities and the departments to keep a constant finger on the pulse to find out whether there is an unjustified difference. The typical moment of the year to put this kind of thing on the table in its entirety is the CN-week. In preparation for that week, I will bring this to the attention once again so that everyone makes a good inventory. I don't know how long that list is. I come to an example mentioned by Mr Van Laar. Maybe there's more. If they are unjustified, we must of course work on them. I'll admit I'll take stock of it. Then the ferry connection. A previous debate called for this, and I shall begin by addressing the Downwinds, between Curaçao, Aruba and Bonaire. A feasibility study was agreed at the Kingdom Conference. The Fondo Desaroyo Aruba has been asked to do the governance for this study and to outsource the assignment to the private entrepreneur ICASUS. So they're not gonna fly, they're gonna sail. They have undertaken to do so. The funds are available for this purpose: $120,000. Curaçao and Bonaire are in agreement with the assignment and waiting for the agreement of the Government of Aruba. I mentioned that at the last meeting with the Prime Minister of Aruba. He was not aware of the fact that there would be no agreement and would work on it. After the feasibility study, the islands will have to decide for themselves whether the project will become a "go" or a "no go." In the Upper Winds the situation is more complex, especially because there are many fewer people living there and so there is much less demand for boats. Of course, that makes it pranger, because you're stuck on a smaller island. I understand that, but most people take the plane. To be honest, transport by sea in the Upper Winds is an unpleasant experience. The wave blows make a lot of people sick very quickly. It has been tried, but there was not enough support for it at the time. I would like to ask the island authorities whether they are interested in the fact that we are still paying attention to this and putting the emphasis on it. Let's see what the result of that is. If they are indeed interested in this, we could support the investigation as to whether it is possible to set something in motion there. Mr Van Laar has asked how it is possible that maternity leave in the Netherlands is 16 weeks, while in Bonaire it only lasts 12 weeks. He asked if women there have a different pregnancy than here. That's a very logical question. I didn't realize there was a difference. I have informed about it and as far as I can reconstruct it, it was twelve weeks instead of sixteen in the Netherlands Antilles. It has now moved on Curaçao to sixteen weeks. I also briefed my colleague in Social Affairs, because it is typically part of Mr Asscher's portfolio, and he did not immediately seem to reject the idea of doing something about it. Strictly speaking, it is up to him to respond to that suggestion. I have taken note of Mr Van Laar's views on Saint-Eustatius. We have also talked very extensively about St.Maarten. I began my reply with Mr Fritsma's fundamental views on a different constellation in the Kingdom. I would like to say to Mrs Hachchi that we have already discussed most of the issues in detail, including the assistance provided to Aruba, for example, in the fields of finance and taxation. With Dutch advice, people are now recruited to map all this. In support of customs, this requires coordination. For financial management, training courses will be provided this autumn by the National Academy of Finance, Economics and Business Management. In short, we are active on that point. There is no boycott of Saint Eustatius. However, we have said that the administration must first be put on track, including normal administrative relations. I also informed the Chamber in writing. I would not like to prevent people from doing so now by visiting all kinds of Dutch hotmen. This must not harm the people of Statia. So all business interactions continue for the benefit of the people there. I also hope that the crisis will be resolved as soon as possible. I wrote the Chamber about double taxation. We discussed this extensively, including from Saba and Statia. We do not need to explain the matter completely, but the small islands feel that they are paying tax again in the shop on something that has already been bought in the trade in St.Maarten. That is not the case in most cases. Here and there there is still the misunderstanding that it can be prevented. I have therefore brought this to the attention of the island authorities and hope that they bring this to the attention of their entrepreneurs once again. There won't be that many. If that is not enough, I would like to say that I will raise this with them on another occasion. Mrs Hachchi asked when there would be a cabinet position on free benefits. I want to link this with the response to the evaluation offered on Monday, because that seems to be a typical place to look at that kind of system properties. The same applies to the issue of combating poverty, which is one of the priorities. I see you nodding, Mr. Chairman, so I'm moving even faster. This also applies to the subsidy for renewable and clean energy: it is available. I shall be brief now, Mr President, because I see you looking so closely... Mr Segers asked about child benefit. The intended date of introduction is 2016, but this has yet to be done by both Chambers. One does what one can. We are therefore trying to introduce it before January 2016. I hope that everyone will cooperate. Let me give the short version of the answer to the question on children's rights. The final use of the amendment money will be with the Chamber before the end of this year. I'm just gonna leave all the other things we've done for what they are. Now to the state of play regarding the BES electoral college. The novelle has been rapidly accepted by the Council of Ministers and has been before the Council of State for its opinion since 18 September. Mr Segers also had a question about trafficking in human beings. There have been many activities in this area. In June of this year, four countries signed a new Memorandum of Understanding, covering topics that are in line with the Trafficking in Person's Report from the United States, such as training, identification, the referral of victims and the provision of information to vulnerable groups. Mr Bishop asked if the Aruba budget was in order. Mr Van Laar also said something about that in the event of interruption. We have the supervision in place now, but of course that does not solve the problem. As one says in English: 'you do not fatten a pig by weighing it'. So measuring alone is not enough; in the end the budget must also be adjusted. We're not quite there yet, so I share the concerns about this. Anyway, the responsibility to see to that is now up to the CAft. Mr. Bishop further asked about a master plan for law enforcement. With regard to integrity, with the integrity chamber, we have now made the first move for Saint Martin. Members of the Court of Justice are first discussing a plan and the responsibilities in the judicial quadruple dialogue, which I am present with you. I would like to point out that financial space must therefore be found. I too do not have this in my budget, but the willingness of the four countries to deal with it in this way is now paramount. I think I've had all the specific questions now, but maybe I skipped one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u105	One question remained: the call from the islands to place Kingdom relations with Foreign Affairs, that is to say, with Minister Koenders. What does that say about their relationship with Minister Plasterk and his ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u106	First of all, it says, fortunately, that we have been well treated by the Foreign Ministers on the subject with which we have dealt. Speaking of family relationships, this reminded me a bit of how children always prefer to be accompanied by their grandmother rather than their mother. Anyway, let me put it this way: the Board of Kingdom Relations sometimes has the ungrateful task of raising annoying subjects as well. I am fully convinced of the expertise in that board. There would be if this board went to another department. That's my answer to this. I'm glad the interaction with the State Department is going well where it needs to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u107	Maybe I was distracted at the wrong time, but I don't think the minister said anything about the houses on Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u108	That's right. Let me begin by saying that I share Mr Van Laar's sense of urgency. It is a piece of the Netherlands, but the homes are not in the state they should be in. I have said before that much has happened in the last five years in the field of education and care. As far as infrastructure is concerned, as far as I am concerned, there is clearly still a delay in housing there as well. I also discussed this with the minister responsible, my neighbour in the department, Mr Stef Blok. He's got this in mind, too. I imagine we're taking stock of the state of the housing. That is actually what Mr Van Laar has asked for. Let us see what this inventory entails and what action needs to be taken to ensure that it meets the standards that we believe should apply to the Netherlands. I say this on behalf of Mr Blok.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u109	That last point is something I want to abstract. We have addressed the question of how to translate the Millennium Development Goals into decade targets. The Minister spoke about children's rights, care and education. They could be part of that. Will the Minister consider whether good agreements can be reached jointly on decade targets?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u110	I apologize for not answering that question. I thought he was kind of inspiring. That also gives me a chance to name those targets again. Honestly, I don't think we should come up with a new one. We have agreed three: economic development, poverty reduction and children's rights. If we can hold on to these goals in this decade and actually get on with it, I think that would be good for the Kingdom. The targets are also linked. You can never fight poverty if the economy doesn't attract. Children's rights are strictly not automatically linked to poverty, but it does matter whether the father and the mother are too absent because they have to find income. So this trio is my suggestion for the decade goals for the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u111	This brings the Minister to the end of his first term. We'll continue with the second term. I give the floor to Mr Van Raak. I would ask Members to be as cautious as possible in interrupting each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u112	Mr. Chairman. I am tabling this motion on behalf of Mrs Hachchi. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Isla refinery in Curaçao is highly polluting, with harmful effects on human health and the environment;]] [[whereas this problem has been going on for decades and Curaçao cannot solve it alone;]] [[Whereas, in the context of the Kingdom, the Netherlands is jointly responsible for good governance in Curaçao;]] [[calls on the Government, in the Kingdom context, to ensure that, in the short term, Curaçao allows the Isla refinery to meet all the requirements in terms of human health and the environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to have all the expensive yachts on St.Maarten seized preventively and not returned until it is clear that they were not paid with false money,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Hachchi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-8]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u113	Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the future of the Kingdom and we have looked back at the last 200 years, in which much has happened. The VVD, together with the SP, looked at that future. We notice that many more parties, including across the street, are working on that future. It is important that we continue to talk about the options for the future. That places the responsibility for that future with the people themselves. The more you think about the options and the more you make conscious choices for your own future, the more responsible you become for your own future. That is why it is important that we do not put an end to this, but a comma behind it. We need to keep doing this and start talking every time. Every time we talk, we have to ask ourselves how we see our future, especially when it comes to our common future. I'm here on financial supervision. The Minister knows me as a constantly sharp questioner. As far as I'm concerned, there's not a lot of room. There is no grey area in the National Financial Supervision Act. There is a clear framework that finances must meet. I have no problem with questions being asked outside the framework, but these questions must then be addressed here in the Chamber. That space is not used by the Cft. As soon as the CFT uses the space and an opinion is given, the reasoning is always that the opinion is followed. I'm against that. It is one of two: either the advice is always followed, but the frameworks must be followed, or the advice gives room, but I want to talk about it. The dispute settlement the Minister is now proposing has my support. I think it is wise for us to look at options to see what steps can be taken. Better to take a small step than to wait with a big step. I think it would be wise to examine the possibilities with colleagues. I'll go into the briefing. A letter was sent by three Prime Ministers from the Kingdom. One piece of that letter is a reproach from Aruba to the Netherlands: the financial disorder on the island was caused by the clue. I would just like to make it clear that this can never be the case. That financial disorder had been there for a while. I think that Aruba, with the steps that are being taken now and certainly with the clue, is becoming more and more on the right track, although there is still a long way to go. Even now, there is still a great deal of concern. Finally, I come to Venezuela. I know that steps are being taken, but I do not think we have an understanding of the scale of the problem. We don't know how these people got here. They're small boats that cross 20, 30 kilometers and then there are. People are walking along the side of the road. They're being seen. Anyone who isn't in the car, but walks, isn't Aruba's. People will notice that, too. The concerns are great, also at the VVD. I'm glad the Cabinet is picking up this point, but I don't know if the sense of urgency is big enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr. Chairman. I think the Minister has addressed good points. As the colleague of the VVD said, the refugee problem has already been identified by both the United Nations and the Red Cross. The Minister says that it is not really on the agenda yet, but we have received these messages from the other side, so I wonder if he is right about that. We are pleased that the Minister wishes to continue to look constructively at the reduction of interest rates. That is very important, partly to send a signal. The States of Aruba are seriously considering how to take that responsibility. However, this is accompanied by intimidation and violence; there are coffins outside. That's very nasty. Then I think, "Just show me that the right path is the way to do it." We have co-signed a motion on the settlement of disputes. We will continue to follow constructively the cabinet's ten-year objectives, the three objectives which the Minister has rightly addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u115	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for all the commitments. That's okay. We can work on that together. I would like to stress that there are two types of differences between islands: social rights and practical issues. A marriage on Bonaire is not just valid in the Netherlands. We have to do something about this. Moving to Bonaire is the same as moving abroad. That should be fixed anyway. It is therefore a question of both practical and administrative matters and of social rights. I'd like to file a few motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that parents in the Caribbean Netherlands have as much right to leave as parents in the European Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider, in the short term, whether the equivalence of maternity and paternity leave can be arranged by 1 January 2017 at the latest, so that this is 16 weeks in both the European and Caribbean Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to send a letter to the Chamber on this subject prior to the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs and Employment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u116	We welcome the Minister's positive attitude towards the residences on Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius. I'm gonna file a motion that goes a little further. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a significant proportion of the houses on Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius are still in insufficient condition and that the improvement plans for them do not come off the ground;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up within six months an inventory of the state of all residences on these islands;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an action plan to ensure that all people living on the islands live in a liveable home and, if necessary, provide additional resources for it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u117	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I have one more motion on the dispute settlement. Then we'll just borrow a minute from the next budget debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the establishment of a dispute settlement system for the Netherlands and other countries of the Kingdom is crucial for fair and constitutionally pure relations within the Kingdom;]] [[calls on the Government to take the three principles set out in the latest Interparliamentary Kingdom Consultation on Dispute Settlement as a basis for the forthcoming talks between the countries of the Kingdom and to draw up a blueprint for dispute settlement this year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u118	I have tried, together with Mrs Hachchi, to summarize in a motion what Mr Van Laar said about the Isla refinery. He wanted the government to ensure, in the Kingdom context, that Curaçao ensures, in the short term, that the Isla refinery meets all the required requirements. Is it true that we've sort of summarized that well? So can we also count on the support of the Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u119	I spent a lot of time on this in the first term, but I didn't have time for it in the second. The Minister has promised what I wanted, namely to explore what the Curaçao government is doing now. He'll be here soon with a letter. Maybe I can ask the Minister from this place if he can come forward with that letter by the end of the year. Then we can just hold a debate on that and really look at it. To take that step now might go too far. We also prepared a motion. I think we should give the Minister some time to do that extra reconnaissance. It won't hang on those two months!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u120	This is the problem. For ten years or more people in Curaçao have been poisoned under the smoke of the Isla refinery. There's talk, talk and watch all the time. Yesterday Mr Van Laar said: we must do something. I have tried with Mrs Hachchi to sum it up as best I can. And then Mr Van Laar says, "No, I won't do it." Are we gonna do something now or aren't we gonna do something? Are we going to continue to talk or are we going to take responsibility in the framework of the Kingdom? What the people of Curaçao have no use at all is for a Labour Party that says it wants to do something, but then it doesn't do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u121	If you want to lose allies, you have to approach each other like this. We're talking about two months. Mr Van Raak is also not shaking a clue from his sleeve next week. He's not gonna get his act together. That's a careful process. I'm sure it's gonna take some time. We want preparations to be made for a lead. It'll take a while. The minister said he's gonna explore this, that he's gonna figure it out. I hope he's gonna say he's coming up with that letter by the end of the year. And then we're going to have a debate on that. As far as we are concerned, we are indeed going towards a clue like Curaçao itself not intervening. That lead can be given next year, but not next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u122	I really need to back up my colleague Van Raak. Mr Van Laar used a strong language in the first term. We have had this debate on the Isla refinery more often, but each time there is no majority to take steps. We therefore welcomed the PvdA Group's first term. But now it turns out that the PvdA is satisfied with exploring. I think we exchanged the necessary words about the Isla refinery. I find it really disappointing if this motion, which focuses on what we all agreed in the first term, cannot get the support of the PvdA. Perhaps Mr Van Laar will be able to think about this or at least comment on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u123	I think it would be bad for us to give Curaçao a clue next week to do this. We now have the Minister's promise. He's coming with a letter. It's decent in this house to wait for that, especially if it happens soon enough. Mrs. Hachchi should be the last to argue for a rushed lead. That seems to me to be the wrong argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u124	We've had a lot of letters about the Isla in the past year. So Mr Van Laar cannot keep the argument of waiting for a letter dry. There's plenty of letters on this file. The motion doesn't mention a clue either. In the motion, the government is asked to ensure, in the Kingdom context, that Curaçao meets these standards in the short term. That's more than just a clue. The latter would be the style of this coalition of the VVD and the Party of Labour. This motion has been carefully formulated and I conclude that the PvdA is doing a lot of talking in the first term and yesterday, but today it is doing the same thing again today as last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u125	It is a pity that Mrs Hachchi sees it that way. Mrs Hachchi now wants to put this motion to the vote, without knowing what the correspondence between the Curaçao government and the Isla refinery is and without knowing, for example, what has already been written on it. I didn't see that correspondence, and neither did Mrs. Hachchi. If she did see the correspondence, I'd like to receive her, too. However, this correspondence is not known and before we know whether the Curaçao government is not acting on its own, we really cannot adopt such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u126	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given. I shall begin by tabling the next motion, the content of which speaks for itself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the inhabitants of the Netherlands are free to decide independently whether they wish to maintain links with the former Antilles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u127	This is, of course, about the logical principle of getting our country's fate and future into its own hands. One more bump has to be taken to do this, and that is why, like last year, I have tabled the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that under Article 73 of the Charter of the United Nations as an ex-coloniser, the Netherlands cannot unilaterally take the decision to break ties with the former Netherlands Antilles, whereas these former colonies themselves have the right to break ties with the Netherlands if they so wish;]] [[Whereas, as a result, the Netherlands is dependent on the wishes of the inhabitants of the former Netherlands Antilles and also has a duty of care for these islands in various areas;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Netherlands is no longer bound by the UN provision which states that our country must not unilaterally break ties with the former Netherlands Antilles,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u128	If the latter is not arranged, the Dutchman will remain trapped in an unhealthy, forced marriage. It is well known that the PVV wants to get rid of the islands, but plans from other parties can only be realised if we are no longer bound by the UN provision. I can leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mr. Chairman. It was Prime Minister Rutte who made the following statement towards the islands: you only have to call and we will arrange for you to disappear from the Kingdom. Those were not just words, because since Prime Minister Rutte's work visit in the summer of 2013, we have also noticed this in relations and relations. This minister has distanced himself from those words. However, I also hope that we will see that in the attitude. There's nothing wrong with being hard on the content, but keep the relationships decent. For the sake of time, I shall now proceed to read out a motion. Of course, I'll file the motion on the Isla first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Isla refinery in Curaçao is highly polluting, with harmful effects on human health and the environment;]] [[whereas this problem has been going on for decades and Curaçao cannot solve it alone;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has been directly involved in the development of this problem in relation to Shell;]] [[calls on the Government, pro-actively with Curaçao, to develop scenarios on the basis of which a decision can be taken in the foreseeable future to resolve the problem of the Isla refinery sustainably,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hachchi and Mr Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u130	My second motion concerns the evaluation of 10-10-10. The Minister had not yet been able to make it clear whether he could send it to the Chamber in April. Once again, that is important because the Chamber will be able to deal with it before the summer. If the Minister just agreed to this, I might be able to withdraw the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to take one year to adopt a position on the 10-10-10 evaluation report;]] [[whereas this puts the debate very far forward;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a position by April 2016 so that the Chamber can deal with it before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hachchi and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u131	I now put to the vote a motion on renewable energy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Caribbean Netherlands is rich in sun, wind and water and therefore there is a great deal of perspective for developing renewable energy on the islands;]] [[Whereas different schemes exist in the European Netherlands for the promotion of renewable energy and the promotion of energy saving;]] [[calls on the Government to give Caribbean Netherlands access to the national schemes for renewable energy and energy saving, and to provide information on these schemes to the Caribbean Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hachchi. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u132	My last motion is about poverty. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas poverty in the Caribbean Netherlands is a major problem and much remains to be done;]] [[Whereas the poverty reduction funds of the Ministry of Social Affairs form part of an integral budget for socio-economic development in the Caribbean Netherlands, and that integrated projects are financed from there;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate these integrated projects and, on that basis, to consider whether the budget should be increased,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hachchi and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u133	I have a question about the final motion. We have received information on the fight against poverty: three pages of project titles alone. In addition, we have been given the children's rights plans and the multi-annual plans. There's a lot going on. Is Mrs Hachchi now asking to re-evaluate all this, while new plans have just been made? Or is this a specific request to evaluate only the integrated neighbourhood approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u134	This concerns integrated projects in the field of poverty. You're right. In 2014, a letter was sent by the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, listing by island what is going on in this area and what is covered by the term poverty. Those integral projects, I mean. I know that measures have been taken in the areas of benefits and the statutory minimum wage. However, this is separate from the integrated projects. It is those projects that I would like to see evaluated. That is why I ask the Minister, along with his colleague, to consider whether the budget in this area should be raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u135	My other question concerns the motion tabled by Mrs Hachchi together with Mr Van Raak. It calls on the Government to ensure, in the Kingdom context, that Curaçao meets all the requirements of the Isla refinery in terms of human health and the environment in the short term. What possibilities does the Kingdom have for this? Mrs Hachchi has just said that this cannot be done in the form of a clue. So that's my question. The second question is: what are the requirements? Do you see different instruments per requirement, or is the same tools available for all requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u136	The motion doesn't indicate that it would have to be immediately per clue. It is rather the style of Mr Van Laar and his colleague from the VVD to quickly turn to clues. That is not the intention of Mr Van Raak and me with this motion. As stated in the guarantee function, in many areas it is the intention to work together to tackle problems. In the case of the Isla refinery, it seems clear to me that the problem has now become a problem of the Kingdom and that it is time for the Netherlands to stop looking at Curaçao and say: ask us if you want advice or help. The Netherlands must stand alongside Curaçao to solve this problem together. I can't make it any brighter than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u137	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given and have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to Article 38 of the Staff Regulations,]] [[noting that such mutual arrangement has not been established so far;]] [[having regard to the fact that a dispute settlement has been discussed many times, but has not been settled so far;]] [[Considers that the absence of such a settlement has led to complex and protracted political conflicts which are putting the Kingdom's cooperation under strain;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to establish a dispute settlement in consultation with Aruba, St Maarten and Curaçao, with the guiding principles agreed during the IPKO (May 2015) and to submit any guidance to the Council of State until that time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that enforcement in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom will be strengthened next year;]] [[Considering that the "Trafficking in Persons Report" of the US Department of Foreign Affairs shows that trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution are still a major problem on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten;]] [[calls on the government, the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution to be one of the priorities in strengthening law enforcement and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Hachchi, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-19]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Van Laar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34300-IV-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u138	The problem is terrible, we saw it on Saint Martin. We have also adopted a motion in this Chamber asking for a large-scale investigation into the links between the underworld and the upper world, the illegal gammafia and politics. A lot of money has been made available for this and a lot of human power. I wouldn't be okay if those resources were spread out on a lot of subjects. I would like to interpret this motion in such a way that research is being carried out into the flows of money from the underworld, and then we look at what is attached to it. There are no doubt politicians attached to this, no doubt entrepreneurs attached to it, and there are no doubt also criminals involved in trafficking in women or in arms trafficking. I would like to interpret this motion in such a way that we are not going to divide that available money into small jars and small projects, because that would damage the investigation. I would like a large-scale investigation to be carried out which will undoubtedly also involve trafficking in women.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u139	I'm a little less interested in research at this stage. Last year we asked for an investigation. At that time, the Minister began to talk to the countries about whether they understood the usefulness and the necessity of this. The countries said they did not necessarily find it necessary, while the countries in the TIP report are for the umpteenth time designated as having problems with trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. We are now saying that we are investing extra in the criminal justice chain. There is no doubt that trafficking in human beings is also emerging. Crime is linked to human trafficking. Trafficking in human beings is an important part of that. We underline one request: make sure that this has the full attention, so that next time these countries do not appear as a care child in the TIP report, but as countries that do what is necessary to combat trafficking in human beings properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u140	Then we'll figure it out, because then we'll totally agree. So let us be clear that the money and resources that are now being invested are intended for one large-scale research, with which we hope to catch a lot of great criminals, including undoubtedly human traffickers. The resources should not be shattered and distributed over all kinds of small projects that will lead to nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u141	I didn't argue for cutting up the attention and the money. This is part of the very big problem. The motion states that, now that the problem is so great and the finger is put on the sore spot time and time again, we must not overlook it. We must devote all our energy to this. So not cutting up, but an integral approach. It does deserve special attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u142	Mr. Chairman. I have three points. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for the proper answer to the questions raised. I want to put a line under two concerns that have stuck with me. This is primarily the threat of asylum or the refugee problem in the Caribbean. I'm talking about refugees from Venezuela and Colombia. There is a need for more alertness and a less waiting attitude. Secondly, I am somewhat in agreement with the interrupting debate that has just been held on the delta plan for legal certainty. I very much appreciate the Minister's extremely pure state-of-the-art position in these relations, but it also takes trickery like snakes to actually tackle the problem. If we wait for the agreement and approval of these countries, I am afraid that for five years each year we express these concerns in the same way. I would like to encourage the Minister to take strong steps here with wisdom and also with guile.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u143	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I understand the Minister can answer directly. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u144	Mr. Chairman. I will take all the encouragements and not pass them separately. Apart from the motions for resolutions, I shall deal specifically with only one point, namely the widespread sense of urgency about refugees in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. I have given the state of play that has so far been achieved through the representation. That is no reason not to anticipate situations that may arise. This argument is put forward from various quarters. I would like to say that I will make that very clear there. In view of the time, I'll move on to the motions. In the first motion, the operative part uses the phrase "care for." I know that wording. This is stated in Article 43 (1) of the Statute of the Kingdom, namely "each of the countries shall ensure the fundamental human values, legal certainty and sound administration." Paragraph 2 states that this is then guaranteed by the Kingdom. That is, of course, only in the event that this concern is not addressed. That is exactly the point where I have just made a commitment. Let me inform you by letter of the state of play. I will do this before the end of the year, as requested by Mr Van Laar. This motion and that also applies to the motion in part No. 15, takes a decision on what happens in another country. That's always breaking a country's responsibility. Whether you do so through a designation, a General Measure of Government or otherwise, you always use instruments resulting from the guarantee function. We really need to conduct the conversation separately on the basis of the information available.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u145	The Minister immediately takes the motion in part No. 15 in his response. I have a different opinion on Mr Van Raak's motion, but that aside. In the motion in part No. 15 The Dutch Government is invited to cooperate proactively with Curaçao. That is not in the context of the guarantee function. That is, look at the consideration, nothing but taking responsibility that belongs to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u146	I read the operative part of the motion in part No. 15 for: "calls on the government to develop pro-actively with Curaçao scenarios on the basis of which a decision can be taken in the foreseeable future to resolve the problem of the Isla refinery sustainably'. It is the Dutch Government that is taking action to take a decision on something that is happening in another country. This can only be done by crossing the jurisdiction of the country. This can be the subject of a separate debate, but this cannot be dealt with by motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u147	Before we arrive at the "decision," the operative part says literally "pro-actively together with Curaçao."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u148	I've made a promise a long time ago. For my part, I have promised to do everything I can reasonably do to support and provide advice, but without compromising the responsibility of the country. At Mr Van Raak's motion to item No. Nine I had to chuckle. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber as to whether or not to confiscate all yachts. No, in all honesty, it seems better not to. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mrs Van Toorenburg, briefly, because it is not your own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u150	Let's keep looking ourselves in the eye. It's a little weird to file a motion that's not legal at all. I believe that the petitioner should take himself seriously, and I would ask the Minister to do the same. I get that he's laughing. I had to laugh too, but this doesn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u151	I agree. To be honest, my comment on the Court's judgment was to leave it to the House to iron out that this motion is before it. I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u152	Research is often carried out on the basis of general characteristics. This is happening in the Netherlands, which is happening on the islands, and I can mention a number of general characteristics that these people meet. I believe that such an action will generate enormous amounts of money and will also fight an enormous amount of crime. Maybe we should take it a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u153	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u154	I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 9. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 10 to the Room. We have talked about this. The same applies to the judgment on the motion in part No. 11, I would point out that if the action plan were to show that additional resources are needed, this would require a new assessment. We cannot bring budget implications to our attention at the moment. With this remark, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 12 we talked to each other. I regard this as a policy support, with the remark that the 'to arrive at a blueprint for a dispute settlement this year' is an effort obligation, because I do not know whether we can reach agreement with the other countries. Mr Fritsma's motion for a resolution 13 I do not recommend, with reference to the good debate we have had on this issue. There's no misunderstanding about the government's position. The same applies to the motion in part No. 14, to which I add that this is not only because the UN obliges us to assume that responsibility, but also because I believe that we, as a product of history, cannot simply step out of this context unilaterally. On the motion in part No. We have already spoken 15. I don't recommend this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u155	The motion in part No. We have already had 15, Mrs Hachchi; really very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u156	I want to make it "a decision can be made by Curaçao." Can the Minister respond to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u157	In that sense, she comes on the verge, because you are still working to develop proactive scenarios for other countries. This could be a way to show our great commitment to it. It must be done at the request of Curaçao, otherwise you will break the responsibility of the country. On the other hand, I do not have the impression that Curaçao finds it annoying when we think along with them. Let us assume that this is appreciated. If the operative part is thus amended, I can leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u158	The motion shall be amended and the judgment shall be left to the Chamber. The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u159	It will then support policies to be proactive on the point of supporting Curaçao. Then the motion to part No. 16. I said before the summer and in the operative part stands for April. That'll save you two months. If I may read it in such a way that it is all agreed, but that we are going to do it before the summer, that is before June, because then the summer starts, our friends in Box A will also have the opportunity to consult with the other islands. It seems unnecessary to me to bring that up for another two months. If the petitioners hold on to that, I would advise against the motion. My question is whether I can read her in such a way that we strive to do so by April if we can. However, I cannot promise that. We also really depend on contacts with others. I understand the desire to deal with it before the summer here very well, so we are going to try to make it possible to deal with it before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u160	Is the request to amend the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u161	If the Minister says that we can deal with this before the summer in the Chamber, I think that is a commitment and I can withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u162	Since the Hachchi/Segers motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u163	The motion in part No. 17 I am sympathetic, but I have been informed by my colleagues from EZ and who say that there are still some legal obstacles. For example, decentralised solar panels are currently banned in the Caribbean Netherlands. This situation will be brought to an end by the Act on Electricity and Drinking Water, which is pending before the House of Representatives. It wouldn't be appropriate for me to anticipate that. I suggest that we hold this motion until that legal procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u164	At the request of Mrs Hachchi, I propose her motion (34300-IV, No. 17). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u165	As regards the motion in part No. 18 I refer to the discussion that has just taken place. We are going to carry out an overall evaluation of the way in which we make the funds available to the Caribbean Netherlands and then come back to it. We have just spoken about a deadline. I would like this to be a part of it, otherwise we will focus on each policy chapter. I would advise against adopting this motion. Let me make that clear. With the motion in part No. I fully agree with 19 of Mr Segers, to the last part. I have to watch out for Mr Segers, smart as he is. Until then, I would like to make it subject to the question of whether we can reach an agreement on this matter and establish it as an arrangement in the National Council of Ministers. If that is the case, I am prepared to do so. I don't want to do that one-sidedly. If this were allowed to be done, I would leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I see that is not the case. Then, with regret, I'd advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u166	It was almost. Let me take a look at Mr Segers. He's holding the motion as she is. Then the advice is dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u167	The verdict on the last motion, the motion in part No. 20, I'll leave you to the room. I heard the discussion right. I think that this could be part of that and that it is an obvious priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u168	There are two motions on the settlement of disputes, one on Mr Van Laar's part. 12 and mine and others in part No. 19. Ours is moving on. My request on the voting list is whether the further motion can be put to the vote first. That would help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u169	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-08-tweedekamer-7.u170	I thank the Minister and all my colleagues. The fact that we are now ready will enable us to proceed with the treatment of the Media Act this evening. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. The votes on the amendments and the legislative proposal will take place later, as is usual in the case of budgets.
