ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Our pensions aren't going well. Dutch pension funds have lost 140 billion euros in the past six months due to poor investment results. For example, the ABP civil servant fund lost 28 billion. Care and Well-being saw pension assets shrink by over 16 billion. They're astronomical amounts. In six months' time, pension funds will be able to absorb as much as 10% of total pension assets: 140 billion. That's almost twice the entire healthcare budget. That is more than 14 times the complete budget for security and justice. It's a drama. There's gotta be another way. We've got to move the helm around. The current pension system is no longer of this age. Pensioners are now in monthly tension about any new reductions in their pension. It is their pension, for which many have worked hard and hard. The future generations have yet to see what they see at all from the inlays. Only 40% of the Dutch want to maintain the collective and compulsory system, and rightly so. Why should the State decide how to arrange any supplements to my pension? My group wants people to be free to decide for themselves what to do with the investment. After all, it's their money. Therefore, individualise the supplementary pension and give the employee back his compulsory income. Give the money back to the people. I have the following questions. Firstly, does the Secretary of State understand the great concern about the poor investment results of pension funds and thus the chance of new discounts? Secondly, does it share the view that greater freedom in our pension system is absolutely necessary? Finally, does it see the possibility of opt-out to the compulsory supplementary pension, so that workers who wish to do so can be given the freedom to spend their pension contributions at their own discretion, regardless of state intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Klaveren has asked me three questions, for which I would like to thank him. Do I understand the concerns of people who get pension benefits? Oh, yeah. That is why, in recent years, we have already had a number of laws adopted by the Chamber in which we recognise these concerns and also provide an answer. The second question is whether there is a great deal of reduction in pensions. Fortunately not, and that is because of the new financial review framework. It does make it easier for people to spread, so that's excellent. Mr Van Klaveren also asked whether it would be good to give people more freedom in building up their pension. We have started the pension dialogue, which addresses all these kinds of questions, but also shows that a lot of Dutch people still attach a great deal to the collectivity around our system. However, I have sent a letter to the Chamber before the summer, on which we will undoubtedly have a further exchange of views. The last question is if I'm in favour of an opt-out system. This is part of the context of the follow-up to the pension dialogue. Mr Van Klaveren will understand that I am not immediately and without delay in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	I thank the Secretary of State for the response. It's just a completely incomplete answer. As I have just said, millions of pensioners are rightly very concerned about their money. It's about their retirement. As far as we're concerned, we're giving that money back to the people. Release people to decide for themselves how to arrange their supplementary pension. If they want to pay off their mortgage, they should always be able to do so. If they want to put it on the couch and save it that way, they must always be able to do so. If they want to put the money in a pension fund, they should always be able to do so. Let people really be free to decide for themselves. It is time for less paternalism, less obligations and more freedom. Why does the Secretary of State not want workers who wish to do so themselves to be free to arrange their own supplementary pensions? After all, it's their money. Now we see people becoming victims of the dramatic results of pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	In all decades up to now there have been fluctuations in the results of pension funds. That goes without saying, because the money is being invested. If people were to invest their savings individually, the same would be true. I understand that Mr Van Klaveren advocates that people should be able to make all the decisions about their retirement provision. Edoch, again, this can be addressed in the follow-up to the pension dialogue. I wouldn't choose to do that myself immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	Again, it's people's money. I don't think it's more than normal for you to decide what to do with your own money. This cabinet is stuck in the 20th century with its paternalism and state mind. That is very bad for the people who have already retired. A 10% loss is huge, and that is also bad for future generations. It's just a question of whether these people are getting anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is not for nothing that we have started the pension dialogue in which we are discussing the system of the 21st century. I cast myself that this cabinet would only look at the 20th century in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	For the CDA, a collective pension system is important. If you look at the countries where the pension is individually regulated, think of the United States of America, you will see that the weakest remain completely out of it and that huge costs will be charged. All I have to do here is mention the word "usury policy" and most people know what it is about. Thinking that you solve the problems by individualizing is pretty easy. I have another question for the Secretary of State. Right now, Draghi's policy is pushing interest rates to 0%. If someone reports to the Minister of Finance to buy a state bond, they get 0.7% a year. Pension funds never come at 0.7% a year. The low interest rates cost pension funds tens of millions a year compared to normal policies. When is the Dutch Government going to press for a change in policy so that countries with debts, such as Greece, are no longer protected, but assets, such as pension funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Omtzigt is right to say that ultra-low interest rates are a point of attention in this debate. He is also right to say that this should be discussed in discussions with the Minister for Finance. That is what I would like to move this discussion to. Mr Omtzigt also knows that this is a much wider debate in the European context. For pension funds such a low interest rate is not to write about home, and then I say it very euphemistically. For other parts of the economy, this low interest rate will return. It is wise to discuss this in a different context.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you for the answers and for coming to the Chamber.
