ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u1	I welcome the Minister. He's already ready for the first-term answer from the government. If there are interruptions, then in two. We can start right away. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contribution in the first term. When drafting this bill, I looked for a good balance between introducing safeguards for the safety and well-being of children in youth homes on the one hand and the right of parents to make their own choices in the education of their children on the other. I see this search in the input of most members. I taste that we can agree on the purpose of this law, which does not regulate more than is necessary in order to achieve that objective. The debate was, and is now, about the right balance. I will deal with some of the main issues from the first period, then answer the specific questions and finally pre-advise the amendments. The reason for this bill was in the coverage in the NRC at the end of 2012 about abuses in mosque interiors. We then discussed the issue a number of times in the House of Representatives. During the general consultation in March 2013, I indicated that it is incredibly important for children to grow up safe and healthy. For the proper functioning of children it is important that they can integrate and participate. I have also indicated that it is not desirable for children to grow up in isolation from the rest of society. Mr Potters asked me this question also in the input of others whether I have abandoned these integration aspects with this law, or whether the government has abandoned that objective. The answer is clearly no. What I said at the time is clearly standing in front of me. An important part of integration policy is to ensure that everyone can participate fully, fit in, grow up and make their own choices. We do not want people to grow up with their backs to society. Mr Potters is right, however, that the law itself does not have an integration objective. The central point of view of the law is the safety and well-being of children. That is what we want to create guarantees for. Not only for Turkish-Dutch boarding schools, but for all places where groups of children stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u3	My interruption is precisely about this point. The Minister says that he did not abandon the integration objective and that everything began with it. It was also mentioned for the NRC article, but in a different form. Does the Minister recognise that the mosque interiors are obstructing integration through, among other things, the monocultural composition? Should this bill contribute to promoting integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u4	Those are two questions that are in themselves quite difficult to answer. The fact that children go to school monoethnically or stay in boarding school does not in itself contribute to their integration. You can't say right away that it's in conflict with that and that it's impossible to integrate. In the note on the report, I recognised that it is mono-ethnic and that this is a reason to consider it particularly important that children can participate fully. Just because you see them going to an ordinary school and sports club, you can't say that there is a parallel society. At first, it seemed to be reversed, as if I would have said that it is absolutely never a parallel society. The fact that boarding schools are mono-ethnic does not mean that children could not integrate properly or that there is a parallel society. The purpose of the law is to ensure the safety and well-being of children. This is indeed an element of integration. We see that in many of these boarding schools children may grow up who might be lagging behind in life and who might not be able to integrate as well. It is therefore particularly important that they go to school and that they also go to school and that we ensure that their safety and well-being are properly regulated. I'll be more specific about where you can find that in the law. It didn't disappear from the law, but the main goal is well-being and safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u5	I will come back to this later, but in order to make it clear, should this bill contribute to the integration objective? Yes or no, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u6	Promoting the safety and well-being of all children also contributes to their integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u7	This is an important point. The cause was the mosque interiors. We've had a discussion about integration. We also say that the municipal councils and the lectures now have the opportunity to see what is happening in, among other things, the mosque interiors. The minister himself was an alderman and I was an alderman myself. The aim is to look at whether it is promoting integration or whether children are really being taken out of society and they are dealing with only one culture, and there is a great risk of this, which means that they will really be lagging behind in terms of integration aspects? Surely this is not a sub-purpose of well-being, but one of the main objectives that I, as alderman, would look at if I were given this authority?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u8	Yes. I am pleased that Mr Potters is addressing me in the way it works in practice. I don't think he or I would want you to legally forbid people from taking their children to boarding school. That wouldn't be liberal. People make their own choices for raising their children. Regardless of whether you think that's wise, that's a fundamental right. So it's about purpose and means: where you use the law, it has to be proportional to the purpose. The goal we agree on is that children should grow up safe and healthy and have an undisturbed development. In my view, undisturbed development also means that there is a safe educational environment. Such a climate is already a protection wall against growing up children with their backs to society or in isolation from society. So yes, this also contributes to the integration of children who go to these kind of boarding schools. In many cases they will be dealt with finely there. I will respond to the case that Mr Kuzu put forward here, but if we do not, we have a huge interest in each other that we can exercise supervision through this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u9	The purpose of this law is indeed supervision and not to prohibit it. We would not support that either; let us be clear about that. The point is that you can see what's happening. Just like in preschool playrooms and after-school care, you want to know what's going on there. If that really stands in the way of integration and you as an alderman and college see that it is not going in the right direction and you have to do something about it, then surely the answer can't be "we only look at social security and when we see integration problems, we turn our backs on them"? Just then you really want to talk and say that it has to be different and that you want it to be different. That was the background to this bill, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u10	Sure. If there are such problems that you can indeed say that the undisturbed development of a child is threatened, this bill offers ingredients that you can do something with. Then a child does not grow up safely, then the welfare of a child is at stake. It is purely a question of a law as an instrument having to be proportionate to its purpose. This means that you have the general well-being and safety of children, all children, as an objective. We know that some of these are Turkish-Dutch boarding schools which are rather mono-ethnic. This means that it is particularly important for these children that their safety is guaranteed. This increases their chances of successfully participating in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u11	I am still looking for clarification of what the Minister writes and does not write in the note on the report. I get a bit of a "black swans/white swans" feeling when he explains it. He repeats what he writes about monoethnic. It says the phrase "this does not mean that there are black swans, but with that I do not say that they are white swans." That's what the Minister writes. But a little later in the note on the report, he writes that the government does not regard the youth residences as parallel communities. Three sentences later, that's what it says. This is the government's view that there is no parallel community. That's what it says here, isn't it? That's a different sentence than the one about monoethnicity. I don't think the room's turning around. I believe that this is in the note on the basis of the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u12	No, that sentence comes after that earlier piece and must also be interpreted in that light. I see from Mr Heerma's face that I am not yet clear enough. My point is that we know that many of these youth homes are monoethnic. You might wonder how kids grow up there. Are they growing up with their backs to society or not? Is this a parallel society? Moreover, we do not have a clear definition of the concept of "parallel society." The reasoning goes on. We have found that children go to regular education, participate in regular sport, in other words: there is not necessarily a parallel society. This means that you need a different perspective and a different reasoning. Precisely because it seems to be going well in many youth homes, we have an extra interest in ensuring that you have the means to monitor, as with boarding schools that do not want to participate in voluntary supervision in the future, or perhaps do not deal with children in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u13	I heard the Minister very well at first. He said he'd come back to the place of integration into the law later. I believe that this is a fairly relevant discussion, which has been brought forward by several parties. However, the two government parties were the most explicit in yesterday's debate. They said that there is a parallel society. The Minister now says 'not by definition', but the sentence contained in the proposal is not in a specific context. It says, "The government does not regard them as a parallel community." It doesn't say "... doesn't necessarily consider them a parallel community." It says explicitly "not." You can't read that in a different context, can you? This is simply a different view from that expressed by the coalition parties. They say it is, and it says here that it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u14	I cannot speak for the coalition parties and I am not responsible for their contribution in the first term. I have responded to the contribution of the Chamber. In response to the interruptions by Mrs Karabulut and Mr Potters, I am trying to explain how I see it. I think we should keep it clean. Even if one goes to school mono-ethnically or sits in a youth residence, this does not lead to the conclusion that there is a parallel society. Moreover, there is no clear definition of it, so you can still disagree on it. One might think it's more likely than the other. For me, the pure fact that it is a monoethnic youth residence is not enough for that. Does that rule it out? No, it doesn't rule it out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u15	The Minister has indicated the reasons for this bill. He started with the NRC article and then indicated that this bill aims to promote the safety and well-being of children staying in a youth residence. Has the Minister received any signs of insecurity? Are there aspects that do not promote the well-being of children in the youth quarters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u16	I shall come back to that in a moment, because it depends on the way in which Mr Kuzu points out the bill. I will devote a separate passage to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u17	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u18	First of all, I should like to go into a little more detail on the aspect of integration. A part of integration is also that children can develop, participate fully in society and develop into citizens. Citizenship is an often recurring concept. Citizens need to understand what society looks like, what opportunities they have in it and what laws and rules apply. This is very important for all children in the Netherlands, but it is precisely in a mono-ethnic environment that this concept is given extra relief. In the voluntary quality framework, citizenship is therefore an explicit part of the educational environment. I have often talked to the Chamber about the importance of citizenship, especially in order to promote integration. You'll see it coming back here. In the voluntary quality framework, citizenship is part of the educational environment. Mrs Karabulut even asks whether the bill does not lead to segregation. Not as far as I'm concerned. On the contrary, the legislative proposal means that you define a level of safety and well-being, including in the private-funded youth quarters, as a basis in the law and that you ensure that it is monitored. This does not mean that you solve all integration or segregation problems. I think that a law would be too strong a means to ban or prevent parents from entrusting their children to a youth residence. This is linked to your view of the freedom of parents to raise their children according to their own insights and the role of the government. The role of the government in relation to children has changed. We have become wise in this because of harm and shame. We have seen that, in today's society, the role and responsibility of the government to protect children, even if they are not in a government-funded environment or if they are in an already regulated environment, think of day-care facilities being filled in more widely than they used to be. I think that is quite right. That may be expected from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u19	I hope I'm wrong, but the Minister seems to suggest that I said that there should be a ban, or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u20	I'm not suggesting anything. I have indicated that precisely when you use the law as an instrument, you should be careful not to restrict the freedom of choice of parents. That means we don't either. If you accept parents' freedom of choice, you can regulate by law that a level of safety and well-being is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u21	Right, and we differ on whether that is adequately regulated. It is precisely because of this freedom of choice that we think it is extremely important that we get a look at what is happening in this kind of boarding school. Let me come back to this educational environment, this segregation and security. The whole speech of the Minister so far gives me the following impression. Once upon a time there was a newspaper article about girls illegally staying in an attic room, with potentially dangerous situations, but yes, that was just a newspaper article. At that time, MPs were very excited, so the Minister created a framework, but nothing really is going on. That is the impression given to the Minister, when I wonder why the Minister is bringing forward a bill at all, if nothing is wrong. Can he tell me what's going on in this type of boarding school? What is the educational climate there? What do kids get taught there? Why, then, should this contribute to integration if it is not segregation, as the Minister has said with caution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u22	This really is a ratatouille of theories, imaging and a whole mix of questions. I can't go into that in a normal way. I'm just gonna get back to my argument. So much is said and said. There is so much implicit attributed to me in the question, there is no beginning. That's some bullshit, the whole summary of the history of law. I have discussed it with the Chamber several times. I believe that Mrs Karabulut is making it a caricature that does not fit in with the nature of this subject. It's way too serious for that. Seriously, you also take due account of the fundamental rights of residents. That's why you have to reason very purely why a law is proportional or not. That is what I had started in my speech, not some kind of caricature of reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u23	Mr President, the Minister may think so, but these are very serious questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u24	Mrs. Karabulut, an interruption goes in two. The Minister didn't want to answer, but he did. I would ask you to reformulate your question into a clear question, which can then be answered clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u25	Of course, you may find a lot of things about my questions, but I will answer my own questions. It wasn't caricature. They're very serious questions. I would also like a serious answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u26	I shall certainly do so, because my speech is aimed at answering all the questions put by the Chamber. It is important that we realize that you cannot realize everything by law. It is precisely in the field of integration that the law is a means that is extremely limited. Many of the things we want to achieve in terms of integration must come from society or from standards. This must be done through education, and you cannot regulate it by law. I cannot and will not step into the freedom of choice of parents, even if that means that they do their children on a mono-ethnic youth residence. Nor can I enter into people's thoughts and opinions. I cannot oblige them to speak Dutch or by law determine who they are dealing with. I can talk to people to talk to them about that. The Chamber can count on my responsibility to continue to discuss integration issues and their responsibility with individual boarding schools, including segregation. However, the core of this law focuses on the safety and well-being of young people and on youth accommodation in a broad sense. In reply to Mr Potters, therefore, I say that the law would indeed go to the Secretary of State of VWS after treatment for that reason. However, Mr Potters has not yet given up on the issue of boarding schools and youth centres in terms of integration. I remain very active in this area. I'm gonna keep talking to the boarding schools about that. Supervision rests with the municipality. I think that Mr Potters, as a former alderman, also thinks that this is sensible. However, the supervision of safety and well-being in the second line is more part of VWS. This also fits better with the general youth policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u27	I'm gonna try something different, but I get Mrs. Karabulut. We started this discussion with the mosque interiors, because we were shocked by what we saw, especially in Rotterdam. We have said that this can really hinder integration and we really should not want it; we want everyone to be able to get in touch with each other and that these young people do not disappear from society for very long. That was very firm and very clear. The coalition has said: we must do something with that. I think there's a somewhat shaky minister standing in front of me right now. He started out firmly and he's committed to a safe environment for the kids. Of course, so do we. That's what we're gonna do with this law. However, the issue is integration. Would the Minister perhaps add to Article 3, also in order to draw a line, which should be explicitly tested for integration? Then I think we know exactly where we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u28	Then the question is, what do you mean by integration? I think that is important, precisely because it is about the legal duty that one has. Citizenship education can be provided in the educational curriculum. In youth centres you should take care of the undisturbed development of children. That means you don't restrict them in their integration. In that sense, it is part of the law. A safe educational environment also means that your children who grow up in the Netherlands are fully part of society, that they go to school, that they can exercise, that they can participate in culture and that they have knowledge of the norms and values of Dutch society. These are all elements of safe growing up in the Netherlands. If you'd like more, you'd like to change the monoethnic character, you'd like to prescribe what people believe and what they think, then the law isn't the means to do it. You then limit the freedom of parents, who are also part of the core values of Dutch society. That's exactly what we want people to think about. Is there a wavering? No. We come from a situation where a group of young children appeared to live in youth homes where we had no picture of the supervision. There was little transparency about that. It wasn't taken care of. A voluntary framework was then established. Those who have cooperated in this process deserve to be congratulated. Despite their initial scepticism, they realized that it was in the interests of the children and the parents to open the door and show that you want to work on quality and a pedagogical framework. Now we're doing the law on that. We've talked about the law before. There was a need for a law from the Chamber before. My fear at that time was that it would take too long. I said, let me try it voluntarily. I also said in the debate: let us both do it. Let us make sure that we start with the voluntary framework immediately and work on a legal basis in the meantime. I also warned at the time that it was not that simple. You need to see where you're looking for leads. We've found it now. So this isn't the only thing we do. We're doing a lot more. We have the voluntary framework. That is the normalization that comes with appealing to parties for their responsibility for the integration of the children entrusted to them. With this law you do have an instrument in your hands through the undisturbed development of the children. If you see that through the policies of the respective residence, its implementation and the climate that prevails there is a disruption of the development of the child, and a limitation of the opportunities to participate in society, you have a title. I think this is exactly what the Chamber asked for in the first term. It is important that we now explicitly share this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u29	I come to the conclusion that the Minister does consider integration to be a very important part of this law. It's not the only thing, but it's definitely an important part. Now Article 3 (g) (1) deals with improving the educational environment. That is quite abstract, but I think we all know what that means. If we put "integration" into this, I think we all know what we mean. We don't need to explain that. As far as I am concerned, we agree with the teaching material in the education on integration. If there is a final definition, it may also be included in this definition. The point is that I, as well as Mrs Karabulut and others, do want to see that integration aspects are part of this law. We're not mind police. As a liberal, I would also strongly oppose this. However, I do believe that it is a crucial part of this law that we should be able to test it. If I were alderman, I would also like to enter into the discussion on the basis of integration. It would be very helpful if we just put it into this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u30	I understand Mr Potters' plea, but the comparison with education is a lack of a curriculum prescribed by the government. Since the committee that has examined education, citizenship has been a key objective in education. That's also defined. That's problematic enough as it is. Improvements are still possible, but you can prescribe what an educational institution should at least do with students. It is not for the government to prescribe what is being taught in this kind of privately funded youth centers. In that sense, it is not possible. That is why we have opted for the reverse approach. We assume the well-being and safety of children. This includes a safe educational environment. In this context, it is the responsibility of the institution, of the youth residence, not to hinder integration and not to hinder undisturbed development. I feel that we are approaching each other on the content, but I find it fundamentalally vulnerable to add it as a prescribed objective, as if it were a curriculum, to Article 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u31	I think it is an interesting debate. I think it is an amendment that I tabled today, following yesterday's debate. I have the feeling that Mr Potters is approaching that side from the premise that there is a parallel society. However, I am not entirely satisfied with the Minister's reasoning. Citizenship is included in the voluntary quality framework. As Mr Potters said, there have been agreements in education on citizenship and social inclusion. Homework guidance for education is provided in these establishments. Yesterday, the ECN (Netherlands Education Centres) explicitly stated that they see citizenship as a task for young people. We have included everything in Article 3 of the quality framework, including a protocol for bullying et cetera. Those are all kinds of things that you can question constitutionally, as the Minister looks at it. Why can't we just include citizenship and integration, as has happened in education? Why is this so fundamentally different from the parts already contained in Article 3? Perhaps then the Minister could take his appreciation and assessment of the amendment equally into account. I think it's just about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u32	If I come to the amendment later, I can do it a little more precisely. I think this is wise. My reservations do not arise from a discussion of the objectives we are pursuing with each other. The point is that children can be fully part of society. However, I do feel the particular responsibility of making constitutional freedoms a major issue in the drafting of legislation. I will answer Mr Heerma's question in a structured manner on the basis of the pre-opinion on his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u33	I am told that this is the amendment to item No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u35	You'll come back to that later. I call Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u36	I can, of course, ask how the undisturbed development in a youth residence is being hampered, but the Minister is going to answer that later. We are now talking about integration. These are interesting interrupting debates, but can the Minister explain to me what he means by "integration" and "promoting integration" within the framework of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u37	Integration is for me: participation and belonging. This means that as a resident of this country you can participate fully in society. It takes a lot of things. It means that you know and understand the norms and values of society. It also means that you are accepted by the others in society. I have drawn up an Agenda for Integration for this purpose. This has been discussed with the Chamber many times. In addition, we want to promote undisturbed development for all children, including children living in youth homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u38	That's exactly the point. When we talk about this subject, we often look at the Turkish-Dutch youth residences. A number of colleagues base his opinion on those Turkish-Dutch youth residences, but the scope of the law will, in my opinion, include three youth residences with an expatriation. I wonder how the matters mentioned just now by the Minister are guaranteed at the youth centres with an expatriation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u39	The same applies, as far as I am concerned. There too, children must be able to grow up in safety and well-being. There too, the regulator must be able to do something if there is a deranged development. That's what we want for all the children in the country. It is perhaps appropriate to address immediately the mistrust which Mr Kuzu referred to in his first speech in his speech. He says this law is based on distrust. I regret that because it makes the intentions of me and many in this Chamber suspicious. In doing so, he himself shows a certain distrust. I assume immediately that the boarding school where Mr Kuzu himself stayed has brought him much good. I'll take that from him. Mr Kuzu is the ultimate example of someone who has succeeded in society, as he himself emphasizes. So there's no misunderstanding about that. However, the law is meant for the children with whom things are not going well and for the boarding schools that are not doing well. Nor do we say that there is distrust of daycare The Small World because there is a supervisory framework for daycare. Nor do we say that there is distrust of primary school the BOE because there are primary schools that are not doing well. The submission of the legislative proposal has to do with the view on the role of the government in protecting children. In this respect, society has experienced a change. The government and a large part of the Chamber consider it important to also organise a form of supervision for children staying in youth homes, even if they are privately funded, in the interests of the welfare of those children. So it is not a question of mistrust, but of caring about children in our society. That seems to me to be an important objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u40	Mr Kuzu, I am sure there will be many more moments to ring the bell. You have now placed two interruptions, so please...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u41	This is a new interruption. It is now about a new subject, about mistrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u42	Minister, you have included the subject of "mismarrying" in the answer to another question. Are you going to come back to this subject, or is this over? I agree with Mr Kuzu on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u43	I've given you my message of distrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u44	Then Mr Kuzu has one last opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u45	I thank the Minister for his reply. It would be good if he could back up on the basis of which he drew up the bill. We have talked about the NRC article and a number of debates here in the Chamber. The minister has been alderman in Amsterdam, where there are a number of youth residences. He's been there enough times to eat an eitar meal or cut a ribbon. What exactly was the reason or reason for drafting the bill? This question is not based on mistrust, but on signals I have received. Those signals do not come from the media or from MPs who would rather see the youth quarters go than come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u46	I cannot share all the signals I have given with Mr Kuzu. Well, I think he'll agree with me on this. It is precisely when you attach importance to that voluntary framework that Mr Kuzu said yesterday that he attaches importance to this and that he also agrees with it that you can see as positive that those who do not want to participate can still be subjected to forced supervision. That is a logical conclusion to the voluntary framework. And here's another thing. Even if all the existing youth centres are doing fantastic things, there may still be youth centres which do not apply in the future. Then the key question remains very important: do we, as a society, not think it is better that there is a form of supervision when children live in a youth home, that we create guarantees for their safety, for their development, for a pedagogical environment, for physical safety and for social security? It seems to me, in the interests of the children, to reassure their parents and also in the interests of the institutions that are doing well, that this should be regulated in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u47	Mr Kuzu, I will now refer you to your second term. You've already had the opportunity to make an additional interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u48	I thought we were doing interruptions in half. So this is the second part.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u49	No, this was exceptionally an interruption in threes, because the minister went into another point. I would now like to ask the Minister to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u50	Mr Bishop, Mrs Yücel and Mrs Karabulut asked a question about the choice of a reporting obligation rather than a licensing procedure. We want to realise the possibility of monitoring. To this end, the obligation to notify is sufficient in itself and no licence is required. A further authorisation purely for the function of the youth residence would entail a great deal of administrative burden, while the residence function is already subject to authorisation. That's the environmental permit. There is therefore already a permit requirement for the residential function. That's where the reporting obligation comes in. We use this function in the context of a youth residence, in the sense of the Law on Youth Accommodation. For that reason, for the reason that you should always look at what is proportional to achieving the goal, we considered that a reporting obligation here would suffice. Mr Van Weyenberg's question as to whether there should also be a notification requirement for closure is connected with this. In our view, there does not need to be that obligation to report. The intended effect is, of course, the achievement of transparency and supervision. This means that a formal notification at closure does not seem necessary, as it is expected that the municipality will be informed of such a situation by the youth residence anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u51	What does the Minister base that trust on? It is precisely from the municipalities that I get the signal that such an addition could be valuable. I am never in favour of rules where they are not necessary, but the municipalities are concerned that it will not automatically come to their attention and that they will send inspectors for nothing. They just want an accurate overview. I'd like to go along with the Minister's argument, but what does he base his trust on?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u52	It's not a black and white matter. But the way in which the supervision will be completed will mean that there is contact between the youth centre and the municipality. In that light, I find it very unlikely that a youth residence closes, but that this will not be announced to the municipality. The risk mentioned by the municipality quoted by Mr Van Weyenberg seems to me to be small. This is unlikely to occur in practice. Would it be disastrous if the notification obligation was in place at the time of closure? No, it is purely a consideration of whether it adds enough to what is regulated in the law. I would like to make a comment on the obligation to report on the question of relocation. In the case of a move, a youth residence will always have to apply again for a permit for the accommodation function. It is therefore not possible to move without a permit route around the residential function and thus without reporting that the youth residence in question has gone to another address.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u53	I see two members at the interrupting microphone. I think it would be useful if Mrs Yücel were the first to interrupt, because she had asked that question about the move.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u54	Very briefly. Secondly, the Minister has given a good answer to my question. I would like to point out that on behalf of the Labour Party I myself did not actively ask for a licence. However, the answer is clear. It also has a relationship with that reporting obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u55	Can the Minister explain to me why, in many cases, building a barn requires a permit and for this type of mosque-internate residence with several children a permit requirement is too much administration and hassle day and night?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u56	There is indeed a permit requirement, namely for the living function. On top of that, there is a notification requirement for its completion. The question is whether you would like to require a double permit: one for the living function and one because you use that living function for a youth residence. So you can't just start a youth center everywhere and just report it. You will always need a permit for the accommodation function in combination with a notification requirement. We have looked at what kind of municipalities and youth accommodation is a workable combination of permit and duty, hence this choice. So it's not like you need a permit for a renovation and you can start a boarding school anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u57	It's about the other job. The Minister has just built up his entire speech on social security and a safe educational environment. Then it is strange that there should only be a notification obligation, for example when applying for a user's permit. What happens if an official doesn't know about it at all, if they check off and then nothing happens to the quality framework? Why wouldn't you commit yourself to introducing a licensing obligation for this too? That is the most important point. Then there really must be a test. When that permit isn't there, it's illegal. This is precisely because of the importance of a safe educational environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u58	These are two elements. What happens if the official doesn't know what he's doing, so he just checks it out? You'd have that problem with a permit application. Then there is the failure to exercise the supervisory function of municipalities properly. If municipalities do not seem to have a proper oversight function, you have the usual tools for doing so. Then you have second-line surveillance possibilities and you can appeal to municipalities. Do you have sanctions? Can you do something if there's an observant civil servant, but it's not safe in a youth center like that? Those possibilities are there. There are sanctions in the law. You can also close the youth center, if there's a reason. The discussion here is about whether the supposed additional guarantee, not only for the residence permit but also for the youth residence, will add value to the safety of children in relation to the reporting obligation. In my opinion, that is not the case. In the final analysis, children's safety is about complying with the quality framework, and control shows that a sound plan has been drawn up for this. There is already a permit requirement before you can offer a residential function.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u59	From the point of view of spatial planning, you can indeed have a permit obligation, because it is about a living and accommodation function. But the grounds for this are not, of course, about a safe educational environment. In particular, it is a matter of physical safety. You're gonna have to check something out. There will be a serious look, but in the reporting obligation we go much further. As far as we are concerned, we should also look very strongly at integration, but it is certainly about the safe educational environment. But you don't have a licensing system for that. There is therefore an added value between reporting obligation and licensing system. There is no duplication of content. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u60	The aim we want to achieve is for the youth centres to be seen in the municipalities so that the quality framework can be monitored. This quality framework will then have to be established in practice by the supervisors. They have to test according to that plan, but they also have to test according to observations. For this, it is necessary that a youth residence is known to municipalities. For this, it is also necessary to have permits for the living function, otherwise it is by definition illegal. Both elements are provided for. The question raised by Mrs Karabulut and Mr Potters is whether you should install a separate permit on top of that for the fact that there is a youth residence. In our view, this is not necessary for achieving the goal we pursue with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u61	No, the point is that, if there is no safe educational environment, you cannot withdraw the residence and accommodation permit, as there is no basis for a review. Then it can basically just be safe. Then they'll have that permit and they'll be able to say, "We'll live up to it." A municipality can then say: there is not enough a safe educational environment; in fact we would like to withdraw the licence, but this cannot be because there is only a notification requirement on this part. If we want a youth residence closed because there is no safe educational environment, then a licensing system can be of added value. Then you can revoke that permit. In this case, you can close a mosque internate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u62	It may be closed with or without a licence, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u63	There may be cause for closure, but if it is only about a permit system based on spatial planning, then you do not have the testing ground educational environment. That's why you can't shut it down. If we want to close it on the basis of the educational environment, we need a different licensing system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u64	No, that is not true, because the law provides for sanctions for cases where there is no safe environment and therefore there is no good educational environment. With the law in hand, you'll be able to close with or without a licensing system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u65	That's something to come back to in the second term. Mr Van Weyenberg, you interrupted at the beginning of this block, but you did so very briefly. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u66	The Minister says that in the event of a move, another permit must be applied for for for the overnight function. Is that also true if you moved inside the city? If you go to another congregation, I can follow that. But what about moving within a municipality? Is it secure enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u67	It should also be, because such a permit is based on the address at which the permit for accommodation has been applied for. Mr Bishop asked what happens now when parents temporarily place their four children with a good friend. If at the same time all four children stay there for more than half of their time without their address, there is indeed a youth residence according to the definitions of the law. Is that a probable case? I don't think so. In any case, it is no reason for us to say: then you have to set the limit to ten. There has been a youth residence with less than ten young people, girls in that case. Yet that was some kind of youth residence that I would like the law to apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u68	The number of ten is arbitrary, which is clear, just as good as the number of four is arbitrary. What we want to avoid with this question is that when there is a normal or a special family situation, the host family, as a youth residence, is saddled with the requirement of a trusted person, with quality requirements and with the requirement of supervision. Then I think the law will pass its purpose at that point. Our question is to look for a way to safeguard those circumstances, which are clearly not the purpose of this law, from this law. That's the search. Whether it's ten or six or eight, that's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u69	I understand Mr Bishop's quest. It is clear that the law is not intended for what is likely to be a family emergency or a special circumstance. A solution to this cannot be sought in changing the number. That is arbitrary; Mr Bishop licked it. I'd rather not take it too far upstairs. There can also be a family with ten children, all of whom are housed with a family friend for more than six months. I wish that family much strength, but that is just as much a possibility as it is statistically more unlikely. I think that the solution should be much more appropriate in the way in which the municipality then deals with it and the way in which the supervisor deals with it. I would be very surprised if this leads to problems in practice. Theoretically, it could, but in practice, I don't think it's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u70	Thank you. I think this is an important marker, because this is part of the legal history. Can I formulate the position of the Minister in such a way that, if there is clearly a family situation or care in an emergency situation, there can be no application of this law by the supervisor? Is that a good summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u71	That's a little too much for me. There is indeed an emergency situation in the reception of victims of loverboys. However, it is important that the requirement of quality and safety should apply. What I meant in particular, along with Mr Bishop's speech, is that the circumstances of the case will naturally take into account the way in which the municipality looks at this. Mr Bishop outlined a very exceptional case. If I were to extend the rest of my reassurance, we would create a risk to each other that we do not want to, while Mr Bishop's reassurance was perhaps given in my reply. Mr Bishop also asked whether this law would not hinder the boatmen's internationaten. They are subsidised on the basis of the grant scheme for children of parents with migratory/faring existence. It is already subject to supervision. That means that the boatmasters' interns are indeed not covered by this law. Mr Bishop also asked about the statement on behaviour, which should not be older than three months. He asked if that is now necessary and feasible. How is this regulated in similar cases, for example in childcare? The dog shall not be more than three months old on taking up his duties. It is already mandatory for professionals who work with children, the so-called vulnerable groups. For example, it is already mandatory in childcare, where we have even introduced a system of continuous screening, unfortunately, because of the tragic incidents in childcare. A guarantee of children's safety is built in with the vog. I must point out that this is not seen as a problem by the boarding school I have spoken to, but rather as a very logical requirement. If you're going to work with children, you can ask for an explanation of the behavior. This applies to anyone who comes into contact with the children without incident, including those who do not happen to be staying at night. If that's voluntary, there's just as much of that explanation about the behavior. How do I look at parental authority? That is what Mr Van Weyenberg is asking, and Mr Kuzu is asking that question even more sharply: is that not being violated? In my view, this proposal fully respects parents' freedom of choice. Parents are primarily responsible for the education and well-being of their children. I also do not want to enter into their freedom of choice, even if they choose to entrust their child to third parties and place it on a monoethnic youth residence. That's their choice. However, there is a limit to the freedom of choice of parents, as regards the safety and well-being of children. So no, parental authority is fully respected, but yes, the government has a task and a responsibility that you see in many areas in our society, more than before, that is also true in protecting children in their undisturbed development. Mrs Yücel and Mr Kuzu asked about implementation time and transitional periods. I do not think it is necessary to add additional transitional periods or implementation time to the law. Most of the youth centres are already working on the voluntary monitoring process and are already working towards legal supervision. The law has been given in consultation, so the surprise is already finished. I do not think that a longer transitional period is necessary. Mr De Graaf asks how it is possible that there were municipalities that were not aware of the presence of these institutions. That can happen in theory. In the future, you can assume that municipalities know exactly what is going on through the permit and the reporting obligation. The law provides for a gap in this respect. Now there's no duty for a youth center to report it's a youth center. However, the municipality must be clear that there is a function of accommodation. In the future, there will be a link. Then the municipality will know that there is a youth residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u72	I have a question about the vogs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u73	A vog is an explanation of the behavior, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u74	Yeah, explanation of behavior. It took a while, because I had to get the letter from ECN today, to get very sharp for which volunteers or professionals within the youth residences the vog requirement applies and for which not. ECN writes that there are 150 volunteers working in different areas at the centres of this organisation. Of them, 20 are structurally in contact with the young people. For that 20, we now have a vog duty. There's support for that. For the remaining 130, I understand from the letter, they prefer not to have a vog-requisite, while they also come into contact with the children more than occasionally. How does the Minister see that? If there are indeed 150 volunteers who are in contact with the children in the supervision, I assume that this 130 will require a vog.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u75	I have not seen that letter, nor can I answer a letter through the debate in the Chamber, but the criterion in the law is clear: non-incidentally means 'vog'. It does not say "up to 20" or "up to 30," so if there are more volunteers who have to deal with those children in a non-incidental manner, who care for those who look after them in the night, then they need a vog upon accession, a statement about the behaviour, which is not older than three months. What that means explicitly for this organisation and its volunteers really depends on the circumstances of the case. I can't answer that question like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u76	The notification obligation provides for a gap. In my view, the Minister himself admits that there is still a chance that mosque interiors do not comply with the obligation to report. Is the Minister prepared to close the boarding schools that do not comply with the reporting obligation immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u77	That depends. If we do not comply with the obligation to notify because things are happening that are contrary to the quality framework, a sanction must be applied immediately. If reporting is too late, supervision must be carried out immediately. Then you should see what's going on. I cannot answer it in black and white, but I understand Mr De Graaf's concern that this must certainly have consequences. That is also what the law provides for. In this sense, that gap is foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u78	There's still a hole. We don't know. In a letter or in an explanatory statement from the minister, it says that there are estimated to be around 30 mosque interiors in the Netherlands. So we don't know how many there are. Now there will be a reporting obligation, but there is not really a sanction on non-compliance with the reporting obligation. At that point, we're stuck with a hole. I'd like to see the Minister fix that hole. What happens if the reporting obligation is not met and we are left with illegal boarding houses? What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u79	As far as I am concerned, it must not be without consequences if we do not comply with the obligation to notify. Whether this should lead to immediate closure depends on the reason for failure to comply with the notification requirement. If one deliberately and knowingly withdraws from supervision because one does not comply with the rules, then a penalty must be applied immediately. I fully agree with Mr De Graaf. If one is late because one has first come to the wrong point of contact, supervision must be exercised. It is therefore particularly important to make sure that is all right. I can imagine you're not going to close right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u80	I join with Mrs Yücel in the debate on the compulsory vog. In the first term, I have indicated that there are many places where children stay outside, such as in child care and with host parents, quality requirements and other requirements. The mandatory vog is for host parents. There was traditionally a vog obligation in child care. There is now a system of continuous screening, which also calls for a vog in the first instance. How does the Minister appreciate the size of the number of people in youth institutions who need to apply for a vog compared to the demands made on host parents and in childcare? Is that similar? Is the system wider or tighter? Can the Minister explain this further?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u81	They are other supervisory frameworks, but the reasoning is similar. Children are, by definition, vulnerable. When people deal with vulnerable groups, you want there to be an explanation of the behavior. That is an example of the purpose of this law. Of people who are going to work with children, it is reasonable to ask for an explanation of behavior, whether they are paid or not. Many of the parents consider that a reasonable requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u82	I agree. In my view, both the Vog obligation and the continuous screening exercise are not really under discussion in the Chamber. I understand that it's very difficult to go into numbers. I also understand the Minister's answer to Mrs Yücel's question just now. When there are 150 volunteers, 20 of whom have a vog, that is a relationship that cannot be avoided in childcare. Host parents are separate from this, but there is also a vog obligation. Those numbers suggest that there is a much less strict line with regard to the vog than with regard to childcare. Or is that a wrong appreciation of the numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u83	That would assume that this number is the outcome of the law, but it is not. The law hasn't come into force yet. This organization says that twenty vogs are enough to find. Mrs Yücel's question was: is that enough? I have said that I cannot judge that, but once one does not work with children, one is obliged to vote, even if they are more than twenty people. It may well be that the proportions change when the law comes into force. Then Mr Heerma will be more reassured. That could also be the reason for the letter. I don't know that letter, because I was in Luxembourg at the time. I didn't see that letter. It may be that people are against it. But even if it is, I think you'd better go through that. That's an investment you're asking for from the volunteers who don't accidentally deal with children. It is also a nice idea for the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u84	It might be good to come back to the next point, because it would be very nice to have clarity on that. Article 10 gives the College the opportunity to actually close a youth residence in certain cases. We've just had a discussion about that. One of the reasons for closing could be that the quality framework could not be maintained. Now suppose that the quality framework explicitly states that integration is part of it. However, suppose that the College should note that integration is anything but promoted, even more so, that there is genuine segregation. On the basis of Article 10, can that college say as a last resort: we are closing this youth residence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u85	If you explain integration as I did, where integration is part of the educational environment and the undisturbed development of children, then that is possible. If you're worried about the odds and the well-being of those children, that includes sanctions. This is the ultimate sanction, I'm sure. Mr Heerma and Mr De Graaf spoke about a case of a council member in Rotterdam claiming that there would be a much larger number of youth homes, which are underground. They asked me to respond to that. I have no knowledge of that. I have no knowledge that there would be boarding schools other than those currently inventoried. I do ask municipalities and the VNG: if you know more boarding schools, then you will get to work with them and ensure that they do not remain under the radar. I would like to say to the Council member concerned that if he has any indications for this, he can simply report it. Soon, when the law comes into force, there will also be a licence requirement and a notification requirement. It is not intended to be an illegal circuit. We want children staying in such boarding schools to be safe and able to grow up safely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u86	By the way, the councilman in question is a side, not a he.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u87	Okay, I didn't know that. The answer remains the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u88	Yes, that's very gender-neutral of the Minister. In the note on the report, the Minister did make a somewhat stronger statement than at present in the debate on the extent of probability that there are many hidden boarding schools. In that note following the report he writes that it is "unlikely" that there are more boarding schools, but the suggestion was not strongly substantiated. Does he still think so, or does he doubt it by now? Could there be a lot more of those boarding schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u89	It could be both true. Even if it's not likely, it could be. That has to do with the fact that you don't know what you don't know. I don't think it's likely, but I always consider the possibility that a councilman, man or woman, knows things I don't know yet. If one knows such things, the best solution is to report them, so that any illegal situation cannot continue. Mrs Yücel asks for the AMvB's support in which we want to lay down the detailed instructions, the requirements and the quality framework. It has now been agreed with the Chamber in the past that mandatory pre- or post-hang is used as little as possible. It has been agreed that such a procedure should be decided only in exceptional cases and if justified. In this case, I would add that this could delay the introduction of the law. But I understand very well the need of the Chamber to be able to look at this AMvB, given the substantive discussion we are having here with each other. That is why I would like to make a pragmatic proposal. Let us not opt for a formal suspension procedure, but let us agree that the government will send the AMvB to the Chamber before the law is adopted. In this way, the Court may decide on this and could possibly stop the AMvB if it is not satisfied. This will prevent delays, but I believe that we have met Mrs Yücel's wishes in a material way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u90	I see that Mr Van Weyenberg wishes to ask a question, but also to respond to Mrs Yücel. She has been asked by the Minister whether she can live with such a state of affairs. I therefore give her priority, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u91	I can live very well with this. I thank the Minister for this answer. This also gives the Chamber the opportunity to consider whether the frameworks are too vague or perhaps too tight at the time of their elaboration. My point is, if we adopt a law, we have to do it right. The rules must then be enforceable and there must be a good quality framework. However, this is not entirely worked out, but the procedure proposed by the Minister gives the Chamber an excellent opportunity to look at it. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u92	Yesterday I was standing here debating with the Secretary of State of SZW. He had a state-law novel. Every time SZW leaders come up with suggestions and call them "pragmatic," I jump up extra quickly. So can the Court always give a ruling on this, but do not the formal deadlines set out in a formal pending procedure work because they would put us in a tight spot with regard to the date of import? However, according to the Minister, this does not affect the role of Parliament? Let me get this straight. I'd like this to be sharp, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u93	There are a number of differences. One difference is the difference that Mr Van Weyenberg calls. The commitment remains the same. The Chamber can give a full opinion on this and so on. But that one difference is that you don't make the deadlines. The other difference is that you should not have to go to both chambers by default with every wiper, with every change in that arrangement. In a formal front, that should be the case. That makes it very hard. That is why it is only applied exceptionally. If I listen carefully to the Chamber, however, it is a matter of being able to talk about what will be stuck in the AMvB in what way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u94	That's clear. In my assessment it is a form to limit this in principle to a one-off exercise. Thank you for the explanation. Is the Minister going to go into more detail as to what he should be doing and how this AMvB relates to the current voluntary framework? I had some questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u95	Definitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u96	The Minister's approach is educational quality and safety. That's why you need those quality frameworks. Do I understand now that these frameworks are just not there yet? Has the Minister not yet completed any decision, no AMvB or any elaborate quality framework? Of course, that's what it was all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u97	No, Mrs. Karabulut doesn't understand. There's a lot down there already. I would also like to comment on what is going to be in that AMvB, as Mr Van Weyenberg said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u98	I think that is fine, but I would have liked it even better if we had. I myself have tabled an amendment in which I make a clear proposal for these quality frameworks. That's what the Minister's gonna come up with in a minute. If we had that information, we could have studied it by now. If that information is already there, why doesn't the Chamber have it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u99	Because we're handling the bill now. I am just offering to discuss this AMvB with the Chamber on the basis of the first-term debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u100	In any case, we have been able to take note of the preliminary quality framework. There are some things in there that we are wondering whether, if they are really so important, you should not include them in the law. I think the Minister will come back to that. That is a bit in line with an earlier interplay. These are matters such as citizenship, social development or social activities and the Dutch language. If we really think this is important for the youth quarters, should we not choose to legally anchor it in this way? Through an AMvB or through a quality framework, however, offers fewer guarantees than through legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u101	I think it is very common in itself for you to include a supervisory framework and the objectives of the law in the law, that this is also argued in the explanatory statement and that you then implement it through a quality framework in lower regulation. Then an AMvB is still the highest lower regulation you can find for that. Given the structure of the legal technique, it is not an unusual way in my view. They are the effects of the goals already in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u102	Only the law itself gives rise to this question, because Article 3 mentions a number of things of which you say: yes, you can also record them in an AMvB. I haven't quite figured out why these choices are now being made. What's the most important thing? What do you really have to anchor in the law and what can you do in the AMvB, or vice versa?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u103	Every time you make legislation, you have to make those choices. If you took too much to the level of formal law, it would become too static. Then you have the risk that it is more difficult to adapt and that you also have less room to apply improvements while the law is in force. If you didn't commit enough to the law, a law would be an empty shell. Then it is unclear what was the intention of the legislator and what purpose you wanted to achieve with it. In that balance sheet, we have chosen to include the purpose and definitions of the law. So we have included who is governed by the law and what its scope is. We have also included the supervisory instruments, who supervises them and what the sanctions are, and what objectives we are pursuing. This is then developed in lower regulation. You can always argue about it. Sometimes we believe that an element should be raised to higher regulation. Sometimes we do the opposite and say: leave that to work out in lower regulation. However, that is the choice that has been made. On the one hand, it has been made with a view to strong safeguards in the law, including for those involved, who need to know where they stand, and also for the supervisor, who needs to know which instruments are at his service. On the other hand, it was designed to establish a quality framework, codes of conduct and complaint elements in AMvBs. It is all those effects that we have in many more areas in lower regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u104	If you will allow me, Mr President, I am very grateful for that. I don't want to set a precedent. It would be about detailing what needs to be incorporated into the law. I refer in particular to Article 3. It would be nice to continue with the question of whether this can also be a good distribution, which could lead to a redeployment of perhaps also priorities. I think that this would also open up to some of my fellow Members. This should not delay the legislative process. If there's time, that'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u105	I did set a precedent. I forgot to count, so you snuck in one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u106	That is, of course, also a matter of taste. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to decide on this. If the Court considers that Article 3 in its present form is too abstract or too concrete, we must amend the law on that point. The list of subjects, which must be defined in the quality framework and in the quality rules at least, is quite obvious to me. They're elements that it's reasonable that you take care of them. You're not gonna put the quality framework itself in the law. That's not gonna be the case either. Because then you're gonna come up with a lot of technical regulations and there's a lot of work to be done. If the House feels otherwise, we will have to suspend the legislative process and look at how we deal with it. I think it is a logical method to lay down the subjects that should be included in the first paragraph of that article under (a) to (g). Perhaps, in the second term, it will appear that Mr Bishop's initial doubts have shifted to a certain rejection in the rest of the Chamber. I'll have to deal with that. That makes the second term extra exciting. It is certainly the case that in the AMvB the complaints regime, the parental board and domestic violence should be given a role. Mr Bishop asked how far the detailed rules could go. The detailed rules in the AMvB specify the quality requirements in the law. They must all relate to one of the cups that we have just discussed. That is also a guarantee of the legal subjects. They need to know that there is no sudden monitoring of an issue that is not mentioned there at all. The subjects themselves are open to further elaboration. Mrs Karabulut asked if I know similar youth quarters in other religions. I don't know him. She further asked to what extent the quality framework differs from the quality framework of the voluntary pathway. For the AMvB, we have used what we have developed in the voluntary framework, but also the experience of inspectors visiting those youth accommodations, through the zero measurement. All subjects from the voluntary framework are dealt with, with the exception of the process of registration and intake, as this is regulated by the law itself through the obligation to notify and the already existing permit requirement for accommodation. The implementation of the AMvB is less detailed than the voluntary framework. The AMvB gives just one level of abstraction higher, but again more precise than the law, filling in the topics in Article 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u107	In the list following my question about what comes back in an AMvB, for example the complaints scheme, the parent council and so on, the code for child abuse was missing. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that code of conduct will come back to child abuse and whether it will be made mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u108	No, the law on the child abuse code only applies to those who deal professionally with children. They are also designated by the law. Child abuse as a subject does come back. In doing so, the recommendation is made that the reporting code should be used. You can't force him on the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u109	I'm gonna keep going on this. I think it's really weird, though I get it. I've read back that law enforcement. That law was passed two or two and a half years ago. The youth quarters, the mosque interiors, I don't think were really on the retina when dealing with the children's abuse code. I am not suggesting that child abuse takes place in such places, but if there is a relationship of dependence and you are dealing with children, is it really strange that the code of conduct for child abuse is only used on a voluntary basis? I think that's really weird. It couldn't be legally arranged now, but this is a new situation. We've got some new kind of youth centers. I would like to see whether there is any possibility of making it compulsory.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u110	Mrs Yücel makes it perfectly understandable to me why this is not weird and yet strange, or words similar to that. It's not weird because the obligations are based solely on the law on child abuse reporting code. You will not then be able to add a category to the institutions designated therein which are obliged to use it by another law. At the same time, Mrs Yücel is quite right that the proper handling, prevention and reporting of child abuse are basic elements of child safety. This therefore comes back to all kinds of points in the law and the AMvB. Only, specific application of that law cannot be regulated by this law. That should be done through an amendment to that law. We are going as far as we can go on the basis of the legal framework at our disposal. This means that all kinds of measures are being taken, that the quality framework contains all the elements to ensure the safety of children. But this mandatory element is part of that law and you cannot regulate it through this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u111	I cannot escape the impression that the Minister, how do I put it a little sympathetically? Makes it a bit of a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u112	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u113	"A bit of a mess" isn't very bad, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u114	It's relatively sympathetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u115	The quality system for boatmasters' interns has been the basis for the voluntary quality framework. The Minister says that he considers the educational environment and all kinds of aspects associated with it to be extremely important. That's what it's been all about. We're gonna have to take care of that. Why do we not link this very clearly to the licensing requirements and take this as a starting point and anchor it in the law instead of doing so in such a complicated way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u116	Let me try to give you a relatively sympathetic answer. The honourable Member and I differ as to whether adding a licence obligation would add so much that it is also a proportionate means under this law. We had this discussion at the beginning of this period. Soon I will take it back to the pre-opinion on Mrs Karabulut's amendment to introduce a licence requirement. Now we were talking about the implementation of the quality framework in lower regulation. In the case of a licence obligation too, you will always have to fill in some form of regulation which you intend to achieve with that quality framework. This is in itself separate from the question of whether it is a licensed activity. So no, it's definitely complicated. We are working on a large number of objectives. I would like to address some of the detailed questions raised by the Court as to how these objectives will be achieved in the quality framework. In my view, that is separate from the question, on which we disagree, whether you should introduce a licensing obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u117	Of course, I was also talking about the quality framework. The quality framework still needs to be developed at AMvB. Municipalities can fill that out again. However, municipalities also need a uniform framework. This combined with the importance of that safe environment, of the safe educational environment. The quality framework for skippers' interns can almost be taken over one-on-one, can't it? It is indeed a little more extensive than perhaps the Minister is thinking about, but we can guarantee that, for example, the intentions and ambitions of the organisations become clear and that we know what the core values and targets are. We can also ensure that there is a coherent vision of educational policy and climate, how to translate that into the workplace. Surely all these must be elements that form part of the quality framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u118	The uniformity of the quality framework is precisely given by establishing it in a General Measure of Governance. This is also necessary so that supervisors know which parts of the quality framework they can actually monitor, whichever municipality they work at and whatever youth residence there is. Parts of the quality framework all refer to the elements of Article 3 (1) of the law. They get an effect in such a uniform AMvB. This is largely similar to existing rules for boatmasters' internates. It is also largely based on what has been developed in the voluntary framework and what inspectors have added from their experience in zero measurement. Mr Bishop also asked whether the holder could and could still determine the mission and vision. It's possible. The law doesn't prescribe it, but it does give direction. This is the direction that the quality framework, which includes the mission and vision, should promote the safety, undisturbed development and the educational environment of minors. So it is not voluntary, but within that direction you obviously have parts that determine the institution's own mission and identity. Mr Bishop also asks how to reward boarding schools. I think it is a good thing that he is aware of the efforts of the boarding schools. Yeah, I got it, too. Recently, we have provided support from my department based on knowledge and expertise. In addition, a number of boarding schools have worked very hard not only to create such a framework, but also to adhere to it and to show that they are motivated to introduce and apply the quality framework. Mr Heerma asked if there were any examples of social insecurity in youth homes. They are not in the sense that I have to follow up now or that they lead to sanctions or anything like that. We have received all kinds of signals of different form and nature. So you cannot say that I have never received a signal that has caused concern, but I have not received any signs of acute insecurity that would require intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u119	I just want to respond to the previous point, the reward. It is a fair question from Mr Bishop. The Minister's answer is only about knowledge and expertise. The Minister also knows very well that these are private initiatives which are often supported by volunteers. Now there will be a quality framework that creates all kinds of obligations. These obligations must be met, because it will most likely become a legal obligation. There are also MPs who want to add all kinds of things to it. This is already being discussed behind me. Is the Minister not afraid that too many laws and regulations will destroy these private initiatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u120	The main reward for a youth residence is the trust of parents and society. I also spoke to people from boarding schools who had tobacco from the discussion. They have a huge interest in creating a quality framework and legal supervision. They want it to turn out that they are doing well. This reward certainly outweighs the efforts that need to be made. If you have a youth center, you will have to make efforts to take good care of the children. You must ensure that there is safety and that there is a safe educational environment. Meeting the legal requirements is a small effort for the good youth stays. After all, you were already planning to promote the development of children from a pedagogical point of view and to ensure that they are safe. You only want employees with a statement about the behavior. The reward, as far as I'm concerned, is demystifying boarding schools. We'll make sure they're just under surveillance. I think it will give the boarding schools who are doing well a sigh of relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u121	The trust of the parents is of course a very nice reward. If the parents weren't there, they wouldn't send their children to the youth center. I think this is a very easy answer from the Minister. My question was very specific. We now come up with a number of issues in the law that call for obligations. There are a number of amendments which strengthen those obligations even further. There will be another General Measure of Governance. These are private initiatives where a lot of volunteers work. Is the Minister not afraid, was my question, but I repeat it, that there is now a danger of over-regulation, which will destroy those private initiatives, which, in my view, have been doing a good job for many years and which the Minister has no sign of doing bad work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u122	Apologies, indeed, I did not answer Mr Kuzu's question if I am not afraid that they will close as a result. The answer is no. After all, if boarding schools cannot meet the demands we make, such as a good educational environment, the safe and undisturbed development and the social security of these children, so that they grow up safely, and if they therefore close, then it is good that they close down. The boarding schools entrusted with the care of children, who enjoy the trust of parents, must be able to cope with the quality framework laid down here. They should welcome the fact that it is being monitored. We're not looking the other way, but we're looking at those kids, so no, I'm not afraid of that. If boarding schools were to close because of these perfectly reasonable demands, in the interests of the children, it would be better for those children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u123	Minister, can you, before you go on knowing that it is legislation, so that speaking time is not in principle limited, give an insight into how far you are with the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u124	I am quite an end, but the pace of treatment also has to do with the lively debate with the Chamber, so I dare not make predictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u125	Again, I certainly don't want to suggest that either,...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u126	It's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u127	Then we have a little insight into how long we are still working on the government's first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u128	I'm just gonna go through the signals as to whether things are wrong or worrying. I can imagine the Minister's answer, because we don't have a lot of hard facts. Part of the debate two years ago and one reason for this legislative proposal is that it was very closed and not transparent, so that we cannot determine whether it is doing well in all respects. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u129	I agree. That is why it is so important to lay down in a regular, neat, legal setting what one has to comply with and how supervision is regulated. We shouldn't be over-dimensioning either. It remains a private initiative, in which parents themselves have the freedom to send their children there. In the interests of the children, it is good to lay down what a boarding school has to do. The municipality can supervise that. If this were not to be done properly, it would be in the interests of those who are doing well and in the interests of the children that there should be a sanction. That's part of the reason. This is also part of society's changing view of the duty to protect children. I think that people used to be more reluctant about this, but that as a society, through damage and damage, we want more protection for children than before. That is what you see in the subsidised shelter, at the hostage shelter and now, and as far as I am concerned, quite rightly, at private-funded youth accommodations. Mr Heerma asks whether I can confirm that youth residences contribute to countering radicalisation. If the holder of a youth residence provides a healthy educational environment, that also means, as far as I am concerned, that you make young people resistant to all kinds of negative influences, such as the recruitment, the lure of IS or in other cases the lure of easy and fast money. In these cases, it can indeed contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u130	I think that's a good answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u132	I am in a generous mood, but do not applaud too quickly, because there is another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u133	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u134	The President of the ECN claims that these youth institutions contribute. The Minister states that if there is something going on, which leads to its contribution, but the question is whether the claim that is being made can be substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u135	I can't verify that. What I do see, and what I think is very positive, is that this is seen as an objective. It is a task and cares about the vulnerability of children. That is something we are concerned about in other debates. If you see it as a task to protect children from it, you've already taken a big step. Is it possible to determine whether this has been achieved in all cases? I can't establish that. Can you take care of people for that? Not in all cases. A healthy educational environment contributes to the resilience of children, but it is not a guarantee. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. You can see that children who grow up in perfectly harmonious situations fall prey to these jihad children, as I have often called them. However, I think it is positive that this objective is being pursued. I can't confirm the claim, but I can't deny it either. I believe that a healthy educational environment does indeed help to protect children from radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u136	The article states that we are making a positive contribution to citizenship, as well as to counter radicalisation. The Minister states here that he considers it very positive that institutions are aiming to achieve this goal. In the context of this debate on integration and citizenship, can we point this out in a way that the Minister agrees that it is good, and that it is even intended that this type of youth institution should aim to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u137	Certainly, because a healthy educational climate helps to make your children resistant to the lure of the fast money and the lure of the fast route to paradise. Those are two decoys that young people are sometimes prone to. In a healthy educational environment you can make children resistant to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u138	Does the Minister consider it healthy, or can he deny that the atmosphere in mosque interiors is focused on absolute surrender, there is no or little room for autonomous will and mainly work is being done on Turkish-Islamic identity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u139	These are not examples of healthy educational development. I think that when you grow up in the Netherlands you should know that you do not have a full surrender and do not say goodbye to the autonomous will. I think it's best to develop your identity, even if it's a Turkish-Islamic identity, or a reformed identity. It's part of freedom. However, children must be told that they must always think for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u140	After two years of expansion, a number of these organizations have become an ally of this minister, and the Minister has had a look at and a lot of contacts with these mosque interiors and organizations. Can the Minister tell me what kind of organizations these are and whether they are actually abandoning this? And if not, what are they working on? What is the objective? What's going on in those mosque interns? I think that is the essence of what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u141	No, I can't tell you what's going on in the mosque interns. I also answered Mr Heerma's question in that way. I think that all this contributes to a plea to adopt this law in particular and to say: if you have a youth residence, you must ensure a healthy educational environment in which children can develop undisturbed. Why am I not talking about mosque internates, but youth residences? We have chosen a neutral term, because in law you should not distinguish between a mosque internate and another boarding school. Finally, not all boarding schools and not all Turkish-Dutch mono-ethnic boarding schools are located in or next to a mosque. Do we know which organizations are behind these boarding schools? Many of the Turkish-Dutch youth residences are linked to the Süleymanci movement. These boarding schools have often arisen in consultation with the parents, finding religious education an important element in the education of their children. In practice, you can also see a great diversity in boarding schools. A common thread, however, is that the organisations are in the process of opening up more, including through the voluntary process. I think that's a good thing. I have indicated that the quality framework will also lead to more knowledge exchange and dialogue. What am I basing that on? That is already decided in the nature of the law. The fact that municipalities and youth centres are encouraged to get in touch with each other, by establishing a quality framework and by monitoring them by the GGD, creates different contact moments, specifically focused on the safety and well-being of minors. This is in addition to the administrative enforcement instruments that the municipality receives. Why wasn't exactly the same quality frameworks chosen? Mrs Karabulut has just asked this question as part of a previous interruption about the ship's crew. This legislative proposal is inspired by this, but it also recognises the private and private character of these boarding schools. This means that you can go as far as subsidised institutions, where as a government you also have more to say about the choices you make there. However, I have sought to connect with the quality framework of the boatmasters' internals and the quality framework developed over the last year and a half. Mr De Graaf asks if I am not satisfied with victim behavior, accusations of Islamophobia and so on. I have plenty of unfounded accusations, whether they be accusations of Islamophobia or accusations of any kind. I think we are having a very clear debate here. There are concerns that children are staying in boarding schools for which no quality framework is required and for which no supervision is provided. It is in the interests of those children and of society that we now regulate this. I assume that those who follow this debate have been able to take note of the intentions of the government and of the relevant parliamentary groups. If there was any suspicion or concern about those intentions, I hope they have now disappeared like snow before the sun. Mr De Graaf asks why I think it could lead to an improvement. Due to the openness resulting from the voluntary framework and later from the law, institutions will come to the conclusion that this openness is good and that it will lead to an improvement. Being addressed in the way you implement your vision can lead to improvement. I also expect this to happen. I think it is positive that there is already a development that is more visible. Writing letters to the Chamber is part of that, even if I may not be enthusiastic about the content in every respect. Mr De Graaf also asks whether the figure of a confidant is not a wash nose, given the closed community. I am concerned that we should build guarantees for the independence of that trusted person. Those guarantees are there. This is an added value compared to a situation where you do not have a trusted person or one without guarantees. This must then work in practice. I agree with Mr De Graaf. That applies to the law as a whole. That law will have to work. The institutions must work on it. It's gonna have to show up in surveillance. However, I think it is an added value compared to the current situation. Mrs Yücel asks whether there will be a central registration, as in the case of childcare. That's not true. In the case of childcare, this registration also serves a different purpose. It is linked to the way in which childcare is financed. Registration takes place at local level. That fits in with the structure chosen by this law. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the voluntary process would be under pressure or could be hampered by this law. I don't expect that. Voluntary monitoring is on schedule. Cooperation has been established or is being established between the youth centres, the municipalities and the Empire. There's been a healthy pressure from the bill. They are aware of this, but it is also intended to do so. I also notice that youth centres see the added value of improving the quality of their own services. Which municipalities and youth centres do not actually participate in the voluntary process, Mr Van Weyenberg asked. The municipalities of Breda and Venlo did not measure zero. They're free to do that. They have indicated that they have good contacts with the youth centres established there. They are aware of the developments surrounding the voluntary journey and have made a different assessment for the moment. It's possible. They're free to do that. At the boarding school of the international school in Ommen there was no zero measurement, because this boarding school, in its own words, meets international requirements which are already stricter than the voluntary arrangements. However, the municipality of Ommen has indicated that it is prepared to enter into discussions in advance of the law in order to allow the school to prepare itself properly for the law. Mr Van Weyenberg asks me to reflect on cooperation within the voluntary framework. I think it is a very intensive cooperation, sometimes with some tension and discussion, which is quite understandable, but indeed constructive. It was sometimes difficult for the boarding schools to convince their own supporters, volunteers and parents, of the importance of cooperating in monitoring. I therefore welcome the way in which the representatives have acted. They were constructive in the talks with the government, but also in making it clear to their own supporters that it is in the interests of the children to participate in the supervision. I spoke to the boarding schools several times, but I also attended a session with a large group of parents once. There I saw that it was important to make it clear to the parents that we are concerned about the welfare of their children, that this is also the intention of the government and that legal guarantees only contribute to that. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the implementation costs would not exceed the government's expectations. Right now, we don't have that image. If, in practice, implementation costs were to be much higher, we would have the usual channels between the state and the municipalities for dialogue. Mr Kuzu asks why there is a political spastic reaction when groups claim a place in society. That too is a slightly coloured question which I cannot relate to the legislative proposal we are discussing today. The bill is based on the duty of care that we all feel about children. The fact that groups claim their place in society is part of Dutch society. It's not like that. Mr Kuzu also asks whether I am not afraid that the law will lead to worse relationships. Why can't the voluntary journey be enough? I have said that we are reaching a great deal with the voluntary route, but that we are certainly not reaching those who do not want to participate in it or future boarding schools who would like to avoid it. A law is always made to protect those with whom things are not going well. This does not affect the importance of the voluntary journey, but the law is an important complementary element. Mr Kuzu also asks why we burden municipalities with burdens. The burden of the law is very limited. On the contrary, I have always looked at this issue in the first part of my term, and I have discussed the balance between the obligations we impose and the objectives we pursue. I have certainly kept that proportionality in mind. We see that there are differences of opinion in the Chamber. Mr Kuzu may think that the law imposes too much burdens, while other parties are concerned that the burden of licensing is too low. They also asked why unannounced visits of inspectors are needed. Municipalities must have the opportunity and the power to come by unannounced. This is a very common practice. Many inspections will be carried out at a regular time, but it is also important for the inspection to be carried out unannounced if the need is felt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u142	One of the Minister's aims is to ensure that children can experience undisturbed development. I'd like to outline a hypothetical situation. We are talking about a youth center with about 30 children sleeping there. Suddenly an inspector comes in and has to supervise and check how things are going. How does this contribute to the undisturbed development of the child?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u143	The situation outlined by Mr Kuzu is not only hypothetical, it does not do justice to the professionalism of the supervisors either. I've been in that kind of inspection on a regular basis. An inspector won't come in. He does his job in a professional way. The institution knows that an inspection can take place and the institution also knows what to do in that case. The children have absolutely no problem with that. Mr Kuzu's suggestion in his contribution in the first term was that it was even more colourful than the professionalism of the municipal supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u144	The Minister can therefore reassure me and guarantee that inspectors do not invade organisations in such a way that this will interfere with the undisturbed development of children. Can he guarantee me that? As soon as it occurs, the Minister knows that I am here to make a really big point of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u145	I know. Mr Kuzu told me that, so I take it that way. That surveillance is intended to protect those children. That means you sometimes have regular surveillance announced. Then it's time again. And sometimes supervision is unexpected. If there's cause, if there's signs, you're coming all the way unannounced. And if there's any acute danger, you're gonna come in here and save those kids if you have to. It's all at the service of those kids. It's not something new. We have professional supervisors at the GGD. Those are people who develop and love children. That's why they chose a job like this. They do that in a very professional way. Mr Kuzu really does not have to worry about that. I would even appreciate it if he would actively contribute to removing the concerns that might arise from the image he himself sketched.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u146	I'm trying to stay very constructive and clean on the law. It's the kids we care about. When I hear colleagues here saying that one inspector visits once a year and that this can harm children in their development, I wonder what the Minister's view is about the 20 people who constantly take care of such a group, and about the 130 people who apparently visit regularly. What does that do with the development of these children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u147	I have just answered Mr Kuzu's questions. I can see from his posture that I have reassured him and that he himself is now going to contribute to the removal of that image, which I did not think was appropriate. Well, that's safe to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u148	However, I am curious to hear the Minister's opinion on 150 people who seem to be in regular contact with these children. They do the counseling. Maybe some of them do it occasionally, but a large part really comes regularly on the group. Of them 20 people come to the group very regularly. How does the Minister view this in the context of a pedagogical environment and in the context of a healthy and safe development climate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u149	I can't do that. That really depends on whether the quality framework is adhered to. That also depends on the distribution of those 150 people across the boarding schools. That depends on the way people are involved. If children go to music lessons once a week, they might see three volunteers there. Then you can't deduce from that number whether it does anything with their undisturbed development. What I want to highlight very clearly is that it is really not appropriate to put supervisors on the spot that their work on behalf of the children would threaten the undisturbed development of those children. I cannot simply comment on the figure of 150 on its significance for those children. Mr Kuzu asks how I am just that municipalities should not be compensated. These costs are very limited for municipalities which have to do with the supervision and costs of municipalities. The municipalities in this country can do just fine. And if they don't, then there are all kinds of possibilities they can come to Reich with. I say this without any hope whatsoever on that point. I am going to discuss a number of amendments. That means there's gonna be an end to my term. In fact, I have already given an advance on my opinion on the amendment to item No. 8 by Mr Bishop. I would regret it if, by adopting that amendment, small-scale reception would fall outside the scope of the law. I find this undesirable, precisely because of the objectives of the law. There are also examples where fewer than ten children are in a youth residence. Mr Bishop has expressed his concerns about a particular case. We have just had a very precise exchange of views between the government. I hope he will withdraw the amendment. If not, I'd have to advise against it. The amendment in part No. 9 by Mr Bishop on the expiry of Article 8. I attach particular importance to the fact that, in the first years, a monitoring visit to the youth centres is carried out every year in the start-up of legal supervision. This does not affect the possibility of customisation, because annual monitoring is the minimum obligation. Municipalities hold great policy freedom in terms of the frequency of supervision they want to see on top of it and the details of their own role in supervision and enforcement. I would also like to propose a way in which we can respond to what is intended by the further amended Yücel/Potters amendment No. 20. The purpose of this amendment is to include an evaluation article in the legislative proposal. It is proposed to review the law three years after its entry into force. Such an evaluation could specifically consider whether or not, on the basis of the results of that evaluation, purely risk-driven monitoring can be carried out, as is the case in other sectors. At the end of that evaluation, the annual obligation could lapse. That's how we've got both ends. There is a new obligation, a new form of supervision. It is important, however, that at least once a year is taken into account. After all, we all have a picture of the importance of these children and their concerns. Indeed, you could very well imagine moving towards more risk-driven supervision in the long term, without the minimum frequency being necessary. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 9. My proposal is to involve it in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u150	Removing this article is perhaps too much. I am struggling with the Minister's statement that he has a great deal of confidence in the supervision of local authorities, which I also have, but that he does not seem to trust municipalities enough to allow them to weigh up when supervision is required. In many other areas, however, risk-oriented supervision is at the same time relied on. Then there are also areas where there are many abuses. The Minister and I talk about this in a different context. I refer, for example, to the Labour Inspectorate. Why does the Minister attach importance to annual risk-based supervision? If that supervisor does his job well, even if he still has to get started at the beginning, he will go on an annual basis. Why should that be explicitly stated in the law? In my view, the government is not doing this anywhere else on the current monitoring line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u151	Yeah, we sure do. At the nursery we have a multitude of demands, also at the level of the frequency. After all, this is a vulnerable group. I, like Mr Bishop and Mr Van Weyenberg, do not rule out the possibility of risk-driven supervision in the long term. We believe that once a year is not so much. But let's say that it's hypothetical that a municipality has indicated that it's not participating for the time being and that it doesn't think it's necessary for it to do so. That would be extremely regrettable, wouldn't it? For that municipality, it is not a very heavy obligation when I say: you must do so at least once a year. You can then conclude with each other that this obligation is no longer necessary. But I am committed to maintaining the obligation for the initial phase of this law. It's not like the Labour Inspectorate. You don't have to inspect every company every year. There is not every company's vulnerability and risk to children. Municipalities still have a lot of customization left when it comes to the frequency and nature of supervision. Mr. Chairman. I come to the Bishop's amendment to item No. 10. This is about replacing the term 'undisturbed development' with 'development' and 'threatened development'. The term "undisturbed development" was chosen because it could then be linked to the spirit of the provision in the Civil Code. The text of the amendment is in line with the literal text of the provision in the WFD. That text reads: 'It is seriously threatened in its development'. The ultimate obligation of the holder of the youth residence remains the same by its nature, since the provision in both forms aims to ensure that the development of minors in the youth residence is not disturbed. In my view, it was possible with the provision that I proposed, but I acknowledge that Mr Bishop's amendment is in line with the literal text of the provision in the EAEC. That is why I leave this amendment to the opinion of the Chamber, on the understanding that, even if the amendment is adopted, it does not, in my view, imply any other meaning for practice, but perhaps a closer connection with the WFD. I come to the Karabulut amendment on item No. 11 on the conversion of the reporting obligation into a licence obligation. I have said a few things about this, of course, but I think it is appropriate to pass on the arguments. The notification obligation imposes a more limited administrative burden on municipalities compared to a full and full licence obligation. The report of the Task Force Simplification Authorisations, shared with the Chamber, states that licensing is an effective means for the government to effectively protect public interests through prior review of risky social activities, but it is also a serious tool that does not need to be used if the situation is to be achieved by lighter means. The obligation to report is necessary to inform the College that a youth residence is located or is to be established within the municipal boundaries, thus enabling the College of B and W to supervise the youth residence. This means that the obligation to notify ensures that the desired situation is achieved, namely that it is possible to monitor. I therefore reject the amendment. The amendment in part No. 12 also belongs to Mrs Karabulut. That amendment concerns the alignment with existing rules for publicly funded boarding schools and youth centres. In the explanatory statement, Mrs Karabulut assumes that the Quality System also applies to family homes within the meaning of the Youth Act. It's not on its own. Family homes are not family homes under the Youth Act. This means that the reference to Article 2.3 (6) of the Youth Act is incorrect. Family homes covered by the Youth Act are concerned with the provision of youth assistance by professionals after removal. This is youth aid which is used by municipalities and to which all the quality requirements of the Youth Act are fully applicable. In the case of youth accommodation, it is not a question of youth aid but of a private initiative, in which the public authorities must act with some restraint. The law reflects this reluctance in both the rules and the method of supervision. We do not see a role for the Youth Services Inspectorate, since it is not youth aid within the meaning of that law, but monitoring by the Health Services at local level, which is in line with the local situation. That is why I would advise against the amendment. Let me now turn to the amendment to item No. 13 by Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u152	That's number 17 now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u153	It replaces the amendment printed under No. 13. That explains my mistake. It concerns the extension of the obligation to declare conduct. The proposed text includes a broader target group than the proposed legislative proposal aims to achieve. In the legislative proposal we are talking about the people who come into contact with minors without incident. This means that it is best to have a large group. The effect of the amendment could be that anyone who comes into contact with or may come into contact with the children should have an explanation of behaviour. This implies, for example, that someone who carries out technical work in boarding school once a year should have a statement of behaviour, because it is actually possible that such a person may come into contact with a minor. I think you'll impose a disproportionate burden that doesn't contribute to the intended safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u154	My question follows on from an earlier interruption of mine. I had the impression earlier that the demand for vog as laid down in the law is perhaps weaker than that for host parents and in child care. Again, child care is now subject to continuous screening. Is the Minister now saying that this amendment would make it much more difficult than what we are doing in child care and in host care? Is it true that my earlier impression, namely that it is weaker as it is now in the law, is not correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u155	I would like to answer that question in the second term. I do not have exactly the similarities and differences between those elements of the obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u156	If the Minister had read the explanatory statement correctly, he could have seen this is a serious point. It is not a technician who comes to work on the lamps, which is necessary in some cases, but that aside. I mention the example of volunteers who work with these children every two months at night. Should they or should they not have a vog and is it covered or not covered? That is what I want to do with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u157	In my view, it is not necessary to table this amendment because it is non-incidental.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u158	Is that sufficiently clear to the performers and the enforcers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u159	I assume so, but if we need to clarify that more clearly, we can make that even clearer in the quality framework and in the AMvB. The law doesn't need to be adapted for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u161	I also consider this to be a serious point. In the explanation of the amendment tabled, it could relate to the technician. That is not what Mrs Karabulut is trying to do. That's why I'm not in favour of putting it in the law that way. It is not that I do not understand the point made by Mrs Karabulut here. The point is, for people who are not involved in an incident with those children, you want an explanation of the behavior. In my view, that is adequately secured in the law. If there were any ambiguity, perhaps that would be an advance on Mr Heerma's question, apart from the agreements and the differences with those other sectors, then we can clarify this in the lower legislation, so that there can be no ambiguity about them. Then I come to the amendment to item No. 14 by Mr Potters and Mr Yücel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u162	That's no. 16 years old.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u163	Sorry, I see, the amendment to part No. 16, the prohibition of a trusted person carrying out work for the youth residence. I would advise against that amendment. That's too much for me. Also in my department you have confidants who work at the Ministry. It's pretty practical to do it that way, too. I agree with the part of the amendment relating to the blood relative up to the third degree. Members Potters and Yücel are concerned with further securing the independence of such a trusted person. If the amendment were limited to that part, I would support it. However, if it would involve the obligation that the trusted person should not work at the organisation offering the youth residence, I would advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u164	I hear the Minister making a comparison with how, for example, this is done in the Ministry. On the one hand, I understand that comparison, but on the other hand, of course, we are talking about a completely different situation. These are children whose parents are absent, who stay there at night, morning and night, for a longer period than six months. What we very much want is for strange eyes to be able to see from outside what is happening there. Those kids need to get in touch with the confidant. They can do that by e-mail, they can also agree that they come there regularly. If the confidant is part of the organization, I'm afraid that trust will not be established, because the children of course live, live and sleep with those people in one place. I think this is a unique situation and we should make that exception here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u165	Once again, I understand Mr Potters' plea very well. My consideration is purely: is this still a reasonable requirement you can make? On the one hand, I agree with him that you need guarantees to guarantee the independence of such a trusted person. On the other hand, I'm afraid you're actually introducing a completely different variant if you require someone to work at another organization and therefore not be connected to the institution. You have strange eyes with supervision. A trusted person is generally someone within the organisation who plays that role, who should also be fit for it, who should be able to operate in independence. I think that this requirement goes too far in relation to an objective which I wholeheartedly support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u166	The fact is, of course, that this is not "in general," but a special situation. That is why I would like to have a different rule applied. If I understand correctly, you are actually saying that there are no legal objections to this. You think it's a step too far, but if we did it, it wouldn't make the law impossible. In fact, you can, but you have a different preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u167	That's right. I'm not basing my pre-advisation on a legal argument. I'm not saying that would make the law impossible. My argument to discourage the amendment in this form is based purely on whether it is still proportionate to the objective that Mr Potters wants to achieve. I am inclined to move with him for the reason that the amendment makes the requirement to exclude blood relatives up to the third degree. I can imagine. On substantive grounds, I think this goes too far. I would suggest to the Members of Parliament to amend the amendment, otherwise I would advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u168	Can the Minister go along with me in saying that the trusted person cannot work within the institution itself? For example, someone can be appointed to the GGD or to the municipality. I don't think that brings with it much organizational pressure. That is very easy to arrange and that guarantees independence better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u169	This makes the trusted person a completely different figure. It should always be possible to report to the supervisor, to the GGD. We also know this at the daycare centers. There someone within the organisation has been designated as a trusted person, while there too children could come into contact with that person all the time. There must be unobstructed access to the competent authorities to report a problem. The figure of the confidant is generally well invested within the organization. A person is expressly entrusted with the role of a trusted person and that person can exercise that role independently. I understand your concern and intent very well. I just think that this choice can also limit the effectiveness of the trusted person. A trusted outside the organisation may be less easily trusted than someone within the organisation who is independent. Again, I'm considering it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u170	I heard the minister right. I have a question separate from the opinion on the amendment, but it builds on the possibility for children to be able to go to independent people to give signals there. It may be that the youth residences designate a person of trust in their own organisation in whom the children have no confidence. Is the Minister prepared to take into account in the quality framework that youth accommodation arranges that it is clear to children that, if they have concerns and want to talk about something, they can go to the GGD or to the municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u171	I'm quite willing to work that out. The positioning of the trusted person and the rights of children must be clear and transparent for all concerned. I imagine that has added value. I come to the amendments to the Nos. 15, 18, 19 and 20, replaced, modified et cetera. I'm not trying to hit the same rock for the fourth time. I agree with the proposed evaluation. I have already indicated this in response to a question from Mr Bishop. Normally, the deadline is five years, but the amendment states three years. I can live well with that, also in the context of the discussion on supervision. It could have a function that you've been looking at after three years. The only element I have difficulty with is that responsibility for implementation is transferred to the VWS colleague. I just had a debate with Mr Potters on that. I ask him whether he agrees that the evaluation should, in agreement with me, also be with the VWS colleague. I understand very well that he expects me to look into the elements of citizenship and integration, including in the evaluation. If Mr Potters can agree to this, the amendment is better suited to the way in which supervision has been hung up. In that case, I shall leave the amendment to the Court's judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u172	Do you want an amendment to the amendment or is it just the explanation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u173	Well, it's a change, because there's something really different now. It's a limited adjustment, but it would help.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u174	The amendment is indeed limited to three letters, but I think it is very important. This debate is also about how much the Minister really stands for the integration part in this dossier. In my view, it is crucial that integration is taken into account in an evaluation of this article. In fact, on this basis, the Minister responsible is debating with the Chamber whether it is moving in the right direction with this law. I do not think that this is a technical matter to put this at VWS because it is probably mainly about physical safety. This is important, but we cannot ask the VWS colleague how integration is going. It has become clear in this debate that this minister stands for integration and that he must also stand for the evaluation of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u175	I want to stand for that too, but then together with my colleague from VWS. After all, he still has, from VWS, the usual tools to evaluate the supervision of child safety by the GGD. I do not want to rob him now, through this amendment, of this attractive part of his portfolio. I'm looking for the compromise. I would like to accept the role that Mr Potters assigns to me, but together with my colleague from VWS. I hope that's possible. I am not saying that it is a purely technical adjustment, but I think it is a limited adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u176	So if we changed the amendment and called it SZW and VWS, would the Minister be able to live with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u177	Then I can live with it. In any case, I can live with what the Chamber is doing about this bill. So I can reassure everyone who has concerns about that. But also in the sense of the bill, I could live with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u178	Can you nod, Mrs. Yücel? You're the first petitioner. What do you think of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u179	Sorry, I was only pleased, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u180	We can also wait for an amended amendment. Well, we'll see about that. I thought a nod was enough, but it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u181	For my understanding, this is what I am asking. Mr Potters is now saying that this is about a bill on integration. That is interesting, given the Minister's previous speech. It wouldn't be my point. Here's what I'm asking the Minister. If Mr Potters is going through his argument, he should, above all, not start now about the evaluation, but should object to the fact that the Minister just said that the VWS Minister is adopting this bill in the implementation, after we have dealt with it here? That would be a much more consistent line of Mr Potters, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u182	Mr Van Weyenberg now asks me what Mr Potters should have done. I do not have the ambition to speak for Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u183	For the sake of clarity, I believe that the first author determines how an amendment should be amended, and therefore how it should be interpreted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u184	In any case, Mr Van Weyenberg does not decide that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u185	No, that's true. But I'm supposed to judge it later. I ask this because the Minister says: after this discussion, this law goes to the domain of the colleague of VWS. I think he's right to say that. However, I would find it very strange if the responsibility for evaluation was not primarily with the minister who is now responsible for the law. So I am not asking the Minister to interpret Mr Potters' words, but I am asking him whether my interpretation is logical given the choice of handing over this law to the Minister of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u186	Here's the bottom line. I indicated that I would certainly like to do that evaluation with my colleague. It also fits in with the logic of this debate that we are doing so. Given the system of supervision around GGDs, I do not think it is obvious that the department of SZW will assume responsibility for the implementation. I have also indicated that I naturally remain involved in this and wish to remain. There must be no misunderstanding about this. That's what I've just argued.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u187	The minister seems to be wandering a bit. In his speech, I thought he made it clear several times in the beginning that the legislative proposal does not have an integration objective. He said: that does not mean that I, as Minister of Integration, have no problem with the mosque interiors. However, the Minister said that the bill does not have an integration objective. Now he says, hearing the Chamber, that the bill has such an objective. Let me get this straight. If that is the case, I would say, Minister, keep the bill to yourself. I would like to make this clear, including for the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u188	I have discussed with the Chamber that the bill deals with the safety and undisturbed development of children. I have discussed that there is reason for that, because society feels a duty of care for those children. It is also part of the undisturbed development and a safe educational environment that children can participate in society. In this sense, the legislative proposal also contributes to integration. It is not the main objective of the law, but a derived objective, precisely because of this undisturbed development.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u189	Yes, chairman, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u190	The Minister has the floor, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u191	I heard the Chamber very well. I have also heard that several parties consider this element to be very important. I have also understood the amendment as the wish of a number of parties that I should be expressly involved in the evaluation of the legislative proposal, also in view of this. I have said that I am prepared to do so, but I am working with my colleague from VWS and in conjunction with VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u192	Now the Minister gives a certain explanation of the integration objective. Everything is integration. We're talking. That's integration, too. Food is also integration. It is, of course, about the Minister's integration agenda. I do not yet have it sharp: is this bill part of the Minister's integration agenda with which segregation and parallel communities and everything else that they need to be resolved, or not? If that is not the case and it belongs to VWS, where there is also something to say about all the Minister's documents, I would say: join the Youth Care Inspectorate and the existing quality frameworks. I think it's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u193	I'm handling this bill with the Chamber because we're worried about those kids. When we talked about how to do that in a law, we made a choice. The question at the time was: what is the point of reference? Where can we find a system in the law where you can logically accommodate the legal obligation and supervision? Because of the choice made for municipal supervision via the GGD, it is also obvious to look at the ministry of VWS for that responsibility. So no, it's not one thing or the other. It is as I have argued here in response to Mrs Karabulut's questions. The bill looks at the safety and undisturbed development of children, and yes, this also contributes to their integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u194	The House is indeed concerned with its own amendments, but we are always looking for support, so that we can pursue a common goal as much as possible. Let me get this straight. In the amendment to item No. Mr Potters and I have already said: 'Our Minister for Social Affairs and Employment will send in agreement with our Minister for Health within three years...' Does the Minister wish us to remove the word 'conformity' and replace it with 'the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment and the Minister for Health'?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u195	I would appreciate that very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u196	That's not a problem for us. We will table the amendment as amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u197	We await the amended submission. If the amendment has been amended, then it is up to the Chamber to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u198	I come to the amendment to item No. 21 from the CDA. This amendment envisages the addition of citizenship and integration to the quality requirements. I have a bit of a double feeling about that. Let me explain. What is not possible, as is the case with education legislation, because it is legally impossible, is to give a definition that brings with it an active obligation around that integration. I do not think that Mr Heerma is trying to do that either, but I see that as a risk from the amendment in its present form. Having heard the debate, I am now thinking out loud and looking for a way in which I can meet that wish. I think I might have found that way. If Mr Heerma were to amend the amendment in such a way that, at 2a in the explanatory statement to the word 'citizenship', he would point out that this is particularly important from the point of view of the social integration of children into society. I would also like to respond to Mr Bishop's wish. Then, perhaps more explicitly than I have done so far, we have included integration as an objective of citizenship, the social inclusion of children, without ending up in a complicated legal discussion about what an institution can expect in terms of integration if it were to be incorporated into the law as an independent objective. I therefore ask Mr Heerma to amend it in this way. Then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. We do not force the pure legal suspension, but we do meet the wishes of the Chamber. I've gone all the way out here looking for roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u199	But let me get this straight. It's 2a. It now says "citizenship and integration." And you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u200	I propose to move 'and integration' to the explanatory statement and to make it clear that the aim of the proposers is to promote the social inclusion of children, which is part of citizenship. Then we have a framework. You can indeed borrow it from the education system that is legally applicable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u201	I'm still puzzled about exactly what the minister means. I think I've got that figured out by now, but I don't understand why this is so important and why this is the extreme. Active citizenship and social inclusion are explicitly included in the key objectives of education and are subject to review. This is not an education, perhaps in my explanatory statement I seem a little too causal, but you can add both to that member as moving...? I don't see why that's the limit. Through the explanatory statement you could still suggest why one can and the other can't. I don't see why one is across the border and the other is within the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u202	It would have been much easier to discourage the amendment. Of course, if you hinder integration, there is no undisturbed development. Instead of walking that easy road, I went in my head looking for ways to meet Mr Heerma. Then why don't I say, of course, we're recording "one integration"? Because you have to use a legally acceptable definition that the institutions can use. We do not have anything available for this purpose. We do have citizenship, which has been further developed in the legislation. And yes, citizenship does indeed include promoting integration. It certainly makes a difference whether you use that in the explanatory statement as a colouring of the concept of citizenship or whether you include it as an independent goal. When Mr Heerma says that I am looking at this all the way, I hope he will assume from me that I am genuinely looking here for a way to keep it legally pure and feasible for those who have to work with it in practice, while also doing what I want to do in the first period of time from various parties, such as the SP, the PvdA, the CDA, the VVD, as a very clear wish: to give it a place more explicitly in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u203	With my interruption, I certainly do not want to suggest that the Minister's intention would be different from what his answer shows. I'm just trying to figure out if I agree. I haven't gotten there yet. I'm not trying to imply anything about the Minister's intention. In the previous part of the debate, the Minister even mentioned the fact that it would not be constitutionally possible. What exactly does he mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u204	When I said "constitutional," I meant "fundamental." I mean that, under Article 8 of the ECHR and all kinds of other provisions, any restriction of fundamental rights requires you to do so in a proportionate and subsidiary way when you intervene in the freedom of parents, however indirectly. You need to back up the legitimate purpose of doing so. This means that you have been held constitutionally, through Article 93 Constitution, too, to look at the proportionality of the use of the legal means. This goes back to the beginning of our discussion. In integration policy, the law is neither the first nor the only instrument. If the law is used, it must serve a legitimate purpose and be proportionate and subsidiary to that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u205	Mr Heerma, was this also your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u206	It was the first half of my question. I'm not convinced yet. I appreciate the fact that the Minister, more than has been the case so far in the note on the report, responds to a wish which has been widely expressed here in the Chamber, even more explicitly and emphatically by the two coalition parties than by my own group. I'm not quite convinced yet. The Minister states: if it is adjusted so that is the ultimate limit to which I am going, then judgment is up to the Chamber, and if I am not adjusted, I advise against it. I'm gonna think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u207	Fine. You'll get back to me. Mr. Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u208	I'm starting to have a problem with this anyway. We have a debate here in which it seems that the word 'integration' is a very complex and difficult word. We have objectives at school that are about integration. We talk about integration every day. If we were to include integration in this framework, I do not think there will be a battle, legally speaking, about the definition of integration. I believe that we want to send out a clear signal, and that is also the objective of this law. We must also look at integration. It would really be a good thing for the Minister to say that, in view of the discussion that has been taking place here, it is quite reasonable that we should include the word 'integration' and that we should make that part of this law. We can then conclude this debate with satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u209	I very much appreciate this suggestion, but I would like to say in turn that it would adorn Mr Potters if he, listening to what I just said, came to the conclusion that I did indeed look for a way to add that word and that legislation was not there to send a signal. Legislation is there to make a law and to regulate things. Signals are issued in the Chamber. We have an obligation with each other to take into account the requirements in the way in which we implement the legislative text. I do. Nevertheless, I would like to address the Chamber, having heard it. That's why I've been looking for a way to put this element in there as well. That is precisely in view of the fact that Mr Potters can leave the debate with satisfaction, but also in view of the fact that the law can apply with full force in its implementation. So yes, we're talking a lot about integration here. And no, we cannot avoid the obligation to look where, what and in what proportion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u210	Maybe we could make the next deal with each other. In three years, we're going to evaluate the law. I will give the Minister a bottle of wine if it turns out that a school or a mosque internationaat has got into trouble because integration has been included and tested as an objective, but is not legally sustainable. I think the discussion we are having is about hair-clubbing and not about the real subject. I think we can really include integration as an objective. If it turns out that a court ruling is needed and that the Minister is right, then I will give the Minister a bottle of wine. However, I believe that we will never have this discussion in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u211	Everyone's job and his responsibility. I very much appreciate this gesture by Mr Potters and I will be happy to drink his wine. But I do see it as my responsibility, from my role, to seek to meet the real wishes of the Chamber, but also to ensure that the law in my view meets the requirements that may be imposed on it. One time it might be a signal that we all agree with and the other time it's a different signal. I think I can meet Mr Potters' wish, even without me being promised wine, while keeping the legislation proportionate and pure. But once again, each one's trade and each one's role.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u212	I don't think this is a hair clover at all. This is about the essence of the purpose of this law and about the justification of the intervention by the government. I support this law. In the first term, I argued exuberantly that I felt that the balance was right now and that we needed to be clear about why we are making this law. I believe that the Minister has made a good assessment both in the documents and in his reply today. I understand that the Minister is trying to do a pragmatic hand-out and would also like to support him in the line he has taken so far. The Minister spoke in his explanatory statement about social inclusion. That, I think, is right to the purpose of this bill. I can assume that the Minister has deliberately added the word'social' and that he has not mentioned, for example, cultural integration. Can the Minister explain why he chose these words?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u213	Thank you very much for your support. That is all part of the debate. It is sometimes our aim to discuss small provisions together. There's nothing wrong with that either. The word "social" is there consciously, but by the way, not exclusively. That is probably a disappointing answer for Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u214	As far as I am concerned, the field of tension is that it is about private organisations and a law that we are putting in place for the undisturbed development of children, which I fully support. We should not then give the impression that we are ultimately focusing the law on groups that some people think are wrong with. You can find that, and we can have a very wide-ranging debate on that, but the Minister has argued abundantly that this law is not about that. I call once again on him to stick strictly to that. I realize this is not a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u215	That's true. The law is aimed at all children staying in a youth residence. You want to ensure safe development and a safe educational environment for all children. Part of a safe educational environment is citizenship, is participation in society. In this sense, the law does offer a handle that you do have, even with integration, a title when a boarding school would hinder the integration of children. The law is not meant to be disproportionate to interfere as an instrument in the choice of parents or to interfere directly with integration in this way. That is why the structure is as I chose it, and that is why I have built up the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u216	That is a point I should like to make. We regularly hold debates on citizenship in the Committee on Education, Culture, Education, the Media and Sport. The CDA has recently tabled a motion in this committee to the effect that teachers who are required to teach citizenship must meet certain qualifications. Citizenship is therefore a subject in itself. Does the Minister not have sufficient confidence in the formation of citizenship in education? Is the Minister prepared to develop the specific expertise needed for citizenship so that youth quarters know exactly what they need to work on? Otherwise, it's too abstract a concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u217	I have deliberately indicated in my first words that it is not about a curriculum to be prescribed by the government. That's the big difference from education. In education, we have been at the heart of citizenship for about ten years. Schools should develop lessons that meet the core objective and be monitored by the inspection. You can't do that in private youth homes. These are not educational institutions according to the law and we cannot impose a curriculum on them. In youth centres, citizenship is part of a safe educational environment. There is no obligation to complete a certain number of lessons or meet core objectives. However, there must be a healthy and safe educational environment. I think that's what makes me feel better. It cannot be explained as a lack of trust in education. Part of a normal, safe development of children is that you take into account a healthy educational environment and therefore citizenship. I shall now turn to Mr Kuzu's amendment to item No. 24, which proposes to delete the annual inspections. Mr Bishop also asked about the inspections. I have made a gesture by saying: let's do it at the outset and let's make an explicit assessment of whether it is still necessary afterwards, or whether you could go to risk-driven monitoring. I hope that Mr Kuzu will agree with that compromise. I do not recommend the amendment in this form. So far in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u218	Let me see if all of Mr Kuzu's amendments have been discussed. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u219	The Minister is still missing two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u220	You mentioned Amendment No 1 to the motion for a resolution. 23, but I suspect this no. 22 has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u221	Mr President, may I help you: No. 24 has been treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u222	I see it. The amendments to item No. 22 and item No. 23 skipped out on the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u223	I am the amendment to item No. 22 on unannounced investigation. In my term I have argued extensively that it is in the best interests of the children and I saw that Mr Kuzu was reassured at that time. He has promised me non-verbally that he will take away the concerns that may have arisen. The amendment could be withdrawn, otherwise I would advise against it. And then there is the amendment to item No. 23 on the transitional period. I have already said a few things about this. Given the broad preparation, involvement in the voluntary pathway and the internet consulation that has taken place, there is no need for a transitional period in the government's view. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u224	In the argument on another subject, the Minister said that some boarding schools are cooperating and others are not. Is it not reasonable to include a transitional period, as we do with almost all the legislation we deal with in the Chamber? Is that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u225	I don't think it's necessary. This discussion is well known to the boarding schools, they have all followed her and responded to it. They've all been by and used the internet consultation. They know exactly what's expected of them. This law is putting pressure on the kettle. Let that be an advantage for the boarding schools that have already done a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u226	The minister says he has good contact with ECN among others. However, organisations such as ECN have advocated a transitional regime and a transitional period precisely during the internet consultation and in their correspondence with the Chamber. The Minister's gonna turn it in himself. The Minister himself says it's pressure on the kettle. I still wonder whether this contrasts with what is said to be done, namely the safety and well-being of children. A transitional period or a transitional arrangement isn't too much to ask, is it, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u227	You can be in very good contact and still disagree. Mr Kuzu and I regularly prove that. I do not think that is necessary in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u228	I still miss an answer to the question about municipal arbitrariness. Can the Minister briefly comment on this? In my contribution I outlined the difference between the municipality of Amsterdam and the municipality of Rotterdam in the same complaint procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u229	Just when you're concerned about municipal arbitrariness, it's important to have a legal framework. That is an additional argument that advocates the adoption of the law. I assume that implicit support for the law has been decided in this question. It is precisely by making the quality framework, including the complaint procedure, which Mrs Yücel also asked for, part of lower regulation that there can no longer be any municipal arbitrariness in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u230	However, it is the municipal GGD that has to supervise what is happening. My example was precisely that the GGD, as supervisor in the municipality of Amsterdam, put a plus and in Rotterdam a minus in the same complaint procedure. That is what I mean by municipal arbitrariness in the supervision we are currently organising. I'd like another response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u231	We are now in the phase of zero measurement, voluntaryness and also exercise of supervisors. It is precisely in the interests of those supervisors, clear explanation of the law and legal certainty for the youth residences that it is important to lay down in the law what the objectives of the law are and in lower regulation when you have complied with them. Next, I am convinced that this will lead to a clear explanation by the supervisors. If that were not the case, there would always be legal remedies available to those concerned. If, in a hypothetical case after a law or AMvB has been established, there is unequal treatment, then we have legal remedies in this country. Then you can object by writing an objection. Then that will have to be judged. You can appeal that again. We have a wonderful system in case of unequal treatment. I don't expect that, because I think that the law gives uniformity. If that were to happen, the judge would be strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u232	Mr Kuzu, I refer you to the second term, because we are working on the first term long enough. To relieve the pressure on the boiler a little bit I suspend for a few minutes and then we can go on again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u233	The next item is the second term of office. As usual, speaking time is one third of that in the first term. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u234	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for answering the questions in a sound and open manner. I appreciate that very much. I would also like to confine myself to the three amendments I have tabled. However, I stand here as a substitute for Mr Dijkgraaf, who normally represents this portfolio. So I'm gonna have to talk to him. Let me put it this way: in view of the interplay that the Minister and I have had with regard to the amendment to item No. 8 I will advise Mr Dijkgraaf to withdraw that amendment. The Minister made it clear how far all the requirements set out in Articles 1 and 3 are. That avoids a number of misunderstandings. So I can't withdraw the amendment now, but I'm gonna let it go around for a while. You're gonna be fine. I would like to see the amendment tabled on the part of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 9 to be treated in the same way. The commitment to involve the visit and monitoring of the youth residences in the evaluation is sufficient to ensure that this amendment is not inserted for a moment. I would like to thank the Minister for his support and for his assessment of the amendment No. 10 to the room late. I hope that we will receive the support of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u235	Mr. Chairman. This debate may have taken a little longer both yesterday and today than planned. In my view, this is because, following the preliminary debates in the note on the report, a certain tone was placed, at least in the impression of my group, something different. On most of the issues raised in this debate, the Minister has found a middle ground between the previous tone and the tone in the note following the report. I believe that in most cases a good and enlightening answer has also been given to the question of why this law is or is not there, and what objectives the law has and does not have. My group welcomes the law. I have already indicated this in the first period. The answer given by the Minister of just now remains largely unclear to me. That is the precise explanation and his assessment of the amendment to item No. 21, on integration. I am not yet convinced of the absolute limit set by the Minister, why it is so determined, and why there can't just be 'citizenship and integration' as stated in the amendment. I have the clear impression that a majority of the Chamber does not yet have that conviction either. I am therefore curious whether the Minister will be able to go into this further in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u236	Mr. Chairman. It was an interesting debate in all respects. Unfortunately, the mosque interiors we are talking about are almost only Turkish-Dutch mosque interiors. They are associated with Turkish organisations that have close links with currents in Turkey. Having said that, it is of course true that we have fundamental rights here in the Netherlands. The Minister is absolutely right about that. It is indeed up to the parents how they raise younger children. People may have freedom of conscience and may think and express what they find. The point with these mosque interns and this type of closed settings is right that we don't know. There is no guarantee of free development of individuals and children. It is also difficult to incorporate that in laws and regulations. The Minister is right about that. One thing, however, is very clear for everyone, or at least for a large part of the Chamber, namely that you must at least achieve transparency so that social security for children is guaranteed. The Minister himself admitted that, after these two years of intensive contacts and alliances, he still cannot tell us what is going on, what is happening in those mosques, how the children are being treated and whether they are learning to live together or whether they are only focused on one's own group and on suppressing the individual will, as we examine and know from examples. My main question to the Minister in the second term is therefore: when will he give us that clarity? We can regulate the framework conditions, but we cannot get it clear, not even through such a legislative proposal. For this reason, the Minister may have found it difficult to link a very clear integration objective to this bill. The Chamber is clearer on that. I wonder why. Where did this hesitation come from? I'd like to get a second-term response to this. Why does it suddenly turn out to be possible? Is the choice clear now? Is there indeed an integration objective? Does the Minister dare to stand up for that? What consequences does that have for the follow-up? The Minister said that a large part of his integration agenda, which is related to these mosque interiors, will take place outside this bill. What more can we expect from the Minister? Then I'll get to the bill myself. I have tabled a number of amendments. The Minister's central principles are social security and the educational environment. If the mosque interiors also want to normalize, I would find it perfectly normal if they were to be in line with existing quality frameworks, which also really make it clear what this educational environment means and what methods are being used. How do they translate into the people who work with these children? That is why I have proposed that we should join the quality framework of the boatmasters' internationaties and that we should regulate this right away. We will get an answer from the Minister. The Minister has been working on it since 2013. He says that the institutions are very cooperative. I therefore find it strange that we have not yet received this quality framework. I have also tabled an amendment on licensing rather than reporting. The Minister wiped it off the table. That obligation of notification is simply too non-binding, at least if you say that quality standards must also be checked. That is what we do in day care, for example. We must have an environmental permit, but we must also have a permit which is linked to the quality requirements and the substantive requirements that we impose on childcare. The argument is that these are private interns. Then you can also use this argument as the opponents rightly do, and you can say that we should not set any frameworks at all. If the central issue is social security, I wonder why we don't take care of it properly. Maybe the Minister can respond to that. My final point is the explanation of behavior. The Minister said that the proposal of the SP, the amendment, to ask for a vog for anyone who works or who comes into contact with the children or who does voluntary work in boarding schools, means that the technicians must also have a vog. In my opinion, the present proposal only requires a vog if there is structural work with the children. Does this mean that someone who happens to be with the children at night doesn't have a vog requirement? That's what I'm really worried about. I told you, the handling of this bill doesn't deserve a beauty prize. I would like the Minister to make a clear statement about the mosque interiors, as he has done in previous debates, and to clarify them quickly. Given his good ties and alliances with the mosque internates, I assume that he will give the Chamber a quick insight into what these movements actually do and what the children are taught there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u237	Mr. Chairman. From debate to struggle. That's actually what I've been watching from my blue chair. It's become a struggle of the Chamber. First of all, I note that the PVV will most likely support the bill. I think that is a 99.9% opportunity, but of course we always discuss everything in the group. I'd like to make a few observations. This law would not have been necessary without Islamic mass immigration. There lies the cause of all the costs, effort and time put into the bill by the Ministry, the Cabinet and the Chamber. This law repairs a little bit of something that is thoroughly wrong. That is why we support the bill. The reporting obligation, the inspection and the civil service resulting from the law cause a lot of hassle. Those things are also imposed on the boarding schools that are non-Islamic. I think we should draw attention to this. The good must suffer the evil. In fact, Mr Kuzu's'sweep under the carpet' amendments confirm that Islam adds nothing extra to the good we already had in the Netherlands. In fact, thanks to Islam, we have to reason from the negative. That is why this bill has been tabled. The bill is a good example of reasoning from the negative. This also leads to a struggle on how we could possibly close such boarding houses. We await the additional amendment announced by VVD and CDA on this point. It's a real struggle. I therefore have serious doubts about this amendment, because I believe that the public authorities should not get involved in education too much. We must stick to this liberal principle. I would also like to make it clear that where Islam is allowed, Sharia is facilitated. Islam is always Sharia; let us not forget this. Everyone who cooperates in this process ultimately bears the blame for the introduction of any part of the Sharia. This bill too is actually giving in to a lot of compulsion from that angle. We think Islam is bad for children. It's bad for integration. It is a segregating force in the Netherlands, because Islam is inherently exclusive and intolerant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u238	I'm just confused for a second. Mr De Graaf began by saying that he could say with 99.9% certainty that his group will support the bill. Then he said that with the bill we bow to Islam. Then I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u239	I have added that the good must suffer from evil.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u240	That's a random proverb. Mr De Graaf first said that he could say with 99.9% certainty that his group will support the bill. Apparently, he's okay with the bill. After that, however, he said that the bill was made under Islam's compulsion. That's when I couldn't figure it out. Perhaps Mr de Graaf can explain that to me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u241	It is seen that the PVV is a model of tolerance, which we are prepared to repair a very small thing of something that is very bad. Again, by this law the good must suffer the evil. Sometimes you have to get along with something you don't actually agree with. I shall therefore put forward a motion because we think that these boarding schools should be closed down as quickly as possible. You can say at most: this bill is a second, third, fourth or perhaps eleveth best. I hope this is a good answer for Mr Van Weyenberg. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Islamic mass immigration is the cause of this legislative process;]] [[noting that Islam, which is inherently exclusive and intolerant, is the strongest segregating force in Dutch society;]] [[Whereas those who sow Islam will reap Sharia;]] [[calls on the government to close all boarding houses on an Islamic basis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34053-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u242	Mr. Chairman. One and a half or two years ago, there was a newspaper article with a response from the minister. We visited the mosque interiors with colleague Malik Azmani of the VVD. We have seen it with our own eyes, we have had impressions and we have had an extensive debate on it. A motion has also been tabled which has been widely supported by the Chamber. There was the feeling that we do not know enough what is happening in youth homes and mosque interiors, because it is not transparent. What we can see from the outside and learn from the visits that is true for me at least is that it is hindering integration, because they are being trained there in isolation. They get an orthodox, conservative-religious doctrine. Of course, we're not going in there. That's everyone's freedom. Nor do we enter the freedom of parents to make a choice in the way they want to raise their children. But we have drawn a number of conclusions. We have said that we do not want to facilitate it. That is why, together with Mr Azmani, we have abolished the double child benefit. We have also said that it is not sufficiently transparent. If, at least in our view, there is an integration barrier, when children do not have enough contact with Dutch society, it is a good thing that we are trying, on the one hand, to create a quality framework and a healthy and safe educational environment for these children, which is also legally enforceable. On the other hand, we can ensure that it becomes more transparent, that we can intervene when hard facts emerge as a result of the quality framework and enforcement. I note that we have moved a lot further in those one and a half to two years. I'm happy about that. The PvdA Group considers that the Minister acted in the spirit of the motion when implementing the motion. Once again, the children are at the centre of our work. We stand for the freedom of parents to shape the education of the children themselves. We are also in favour of freedom of unification. However, we do not close our eyes to segregating, integrative developments within these youth centres. That's why it's a good thing this law comes into being. Then, today and yesterday, we discussed in detail the purpose and the question of whether we are achieving this objective by means of this law and enforcement. Undoubtedly, we will not achieve everything. We, as Chambers, as politicians, in all these years of integration debates, have still not been able to create an integration law that solves all the problems at once. I don't have that illusion with this law either. However, I note that we have a quality framework that aims at educational quality, safety and a healthy living and development environment for these children. And that's important, because we want to look back at these kids, not look away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u243	Your time is up. I'd like to ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u244	I'm gonna finish up. I also note that there will be more transparency and citizenship is an important part of that quality framework. I note that the Minister for Integration also makes it clear that he will continue to monitor all integration issues, all integration developments, including in these youth centres, and will take action on them where necessary. And we are satisfied with that. We are taking an important step with this law. That is why I am pleased that we will probably be able to adopt this law with broad support next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u245	First of all, I would like to express my deep appreciation for the openness, sincerity and determination of Mrs Yücel on this dossier. It's a difficult file. Mrs. Yücel shows a great deal of commitment. She has also seen very closely that we have to do something with that. The debate also deals with the question of whether integration is part of the framework and whether it should be looked at. When I hear Mrs. Yücel like that, she says yes. It is indeed also segregation-promoting. The CDA and the VVD have tabled an amendment on this subject, namely the amendment on item No. 26. Could Mrs Yücel support that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u246	The amendment I have seen says that it must have integration objectives. I myself believe right now that citizenship gives us the best testable, enforceable handles in order to be able to monitor this integration properly. When we talk about integration goals, it is too broad for me too. There is also a risk of arbitrary enforcement. I don't want to. As a result of all the integration debates, citizenship in education has also been made compulsory. I think it makes perfect sense to join in. In fact, the Minister has promised that he will be on top of it when it comes to all the integration issues that can be raised at youth centres and which can cause problems. If necessary, he will also take action on this issue. That's what makes it happen for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u247	The amendment concerns citizenship and integration. So the broader context that Mrs Yücel is talking about is also included. It is not specifically about integration objectives, but also about citizenship. That broad context is in it. In view of Mrs Yücel's warm words about integration but also about citizenship, it would be nice if she could say here whether or not she is in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u248	If we support an amendment, we also want to know what we support. Mr Potters says 'one integration'. What's that supposed to mean? That is not sufficiently clear to me. I cannot therefore support this at this time either. I would like to emphasise that integration is an important place for me, and I have also listened to the Minister within the citizenship part of the quality framework. I am confident that when the AMvB can be worked out, it will be given to us. I'd like to wait and see. Integration alone is too broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u249	That's crazy, too. Mrs Yücel often talks about integration, but suddenly she does not know what "integration" means in this debate. However, that is not what my question is about. I am convinced that there are a lot of PvdA people in the country who put the best interests of children first. I am also somewhat convinced of the Minister's good intentions, but I am not convinced of the good intentions of the PvdA spokesperson in this context. Mrs Yücel, once again I would like to ask you very openly and honestly: are you concerned about the importance of the children?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u250	Mr Kuzu, you must speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u251	Or are you, through the chairman, talking about other things? Are you talking about tackling segregation or bashing Sunni Muslims in the Netherlands and organisations like this? Speak frankly about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u252	Mr Kuzu, I would ask you to speak through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u253	These are allegations I really don't want to go into. I do not think that these allegations should take place in this Chamber in this form. So I'm gonna stand back from that. In the first part of his interruption, Mr Kuzu said: Mrs Yücel suddenly does not know what integration is. I've got a visual on that. Everyone has a different picture. For me, it is to participate, to master the Dutch language, but also to internalize the essential values. But can we enforce the internalization of essential values by law? No, we can't. We cannot regulate everything by law, but it is something we must strive for. Suppose children in a youth center, in a mosque internate, get a very orthodox-conservative religious education. Suppose it's a very closed community where it's just visible, you don't have to be a psychic kids growing up with very limited self-determination and limited freedom of conscience. Then you cannot say that integration is going to be complete. What we can do is to ensure, legally and legally enforceable, that these children grow up in a healthy development and living environment. That's what we're trying to do here, out of taking care of those kids, because we want to look back at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u254	I can understand very well that Mrs Yücel does not dare to answer the second part of my question, because she would fall into the basket here. However, I would like to comment on a number of aspects of Mrs Yücel's reply. Two and a half years ago, Mrs Yücel and Malik Azmani of the VVD tabled a motion asking for a legislative process. Now they say, two and a half years later, that by means of a law we cannot really solve it all. Congratulations, you have a law and I compliment you on that, but you haven't solved the problem. You've only made it worse. You're exposing yourself. We don't even have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u255	This is again a whole argument with accusations, at a level which I think we should avoid. Everything I deal with in this Chamber comes first: the freedom, equality and equal opportunities of all, of all children. I have a great deal of difficulty with it if the freedom, equality and equal opportunities of children or adults are limited by any group pressure or by any agenda. I take a stand against that, especially when parents choose to leave children to third-party care for a long time. They have that freedom. When I see that the educational environment is not verifiable and certainly not manageable, I think we should look at that. I think that is a task for all the politicians in the Chamber. Almost all of them take that responsibility seriously. Mr Kuzu's opposition, in my view, only feeds the mistrust. If you do not already have problems with youth centres where there is no supervision or a legally enforceable framework, then you would, on the basis of everything that Mr Kuzu has said, get distrust and think: gosh, what is going on there? Why do they not want to be transparent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u256	Mr President, I would like to make a personal statement. Firstly, it is not the case that the organisations do not participate in this. A voluntary journey has been agreed, but that is just outside of the personal fact. I'm not the one who's suspicious of this. Mrs Yücel was the one two years ago who looked at these organizations with distrust and wanted to make a law. Congratulations, you have your law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u257	Mrs Yücel, a brief final reaction and then we close.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u258	Thank you very much, because it is our duty to ensure that all children in Dutch society do not grow up with their backs to Dutch society but with their face to Dutch society, with the freedom, equality and equal opportunities that everyone else has. I give it to all children, regardless of origin, regardless of religion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u259	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I said that I am pleased that there is now, first of all, a voluntary framework for these youth centres and that my group had indicated earlier that it would be appropriate to include this in legislation. It was important for my group to consider why. I am pleased that we have been able to have a substantive debate here on how we are trying to maximise the development of children. How does this law fit in with the voluntary framework? How does this law relate to the role, responsibility and choices of parents in education? That authority does not enter into force, the Minister rightly confirms. Is this law now coming because we believe that there is a white stain in a good guarantee, or because there have been major abuses? The documents we had received for this debate were slightly different in these things than the debate, once it had burst. This applies up to and including the considerations in chamber motions. I'm certainly not just looking at the minister. I am pleased that we have exchanged this in this debate. I welcome the Minister's reply and thank him for that. He has clearly stated what this law does and what it does not mean. This law is a supplement for me and I will present it with a positive opinion to my group. I am doing this because, among other things, this bill makes it very clear that it fills out some sort of white spot and that the proposal allows supervisors to intervene in case something is going on. We have thus also separated facts from fiction, I say on some of the images in which my group does not recognize itself and which all the documents also show that there is no reason to do so. Of course, you should also be aware that children are not completely isolated. That wouldn't be in anyone's interest. I cannot imagine that parents who take their child to a youth home would choose to separate that child from Dutch society. I still feel some discomfort with Mr Heerma's amendment, which has now become the Heerma/Potters amendment. The Minister advised against that amendment in its original form. He made a suggestion, but it has been thrown aside by the proposer, who is now the proposer. The Minister advised against that amendment and used firm words. It affects a fundamental right. He mentioned the European Convention on Human Rights and the proportionality requirements. I share the concern that education is really something else. I also share the point of inclusion. Of course, we all think integration is important. That is not the issue at all, that is not the debate. The question is whether, with that addition, if you give it to the supervisors now, you do not run the risk that in a municipality whose alderman simply must have none of these residences, and there are, some of them are in this room, this alderman who uses that addition to close such a stay without any test. That is not what my group wants, and that is certainly not what this minister wants. I cannot imagine that is what the proposers want. Finally, I asked the Minister about the role of the municipalities, both in the financing of supervision and in dealing with relocation and closure. The Minister is convinced that this is not necessary. I would ask the Minister to make an explicit assessment of the law to see whether this move and the possible registration of closures have been properly arranged. I would also ask him to take explicitly what he suggested in the debate on an amendment on risk-based supervision, to see how he is going to translate an annual fasting obligation, which he clearly identified as a kind of starting point, into the subsequent evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u260	I hope to be able to make one thing clear to Mr Van Weyenberg, namely the authority of the college, or the mayor, to close a youth residence. That's a tough jurisdiction. I know the mayors in the country so that they wouldn't just do that without good reason, especially if their personal preference might be different. I also think there are a lot of lectures and mayors with a D66 signature. I think it is important to recognise the maturity of the lower level of government and to say: if integration is being tested and it really is being seen to promote segregation and hinder integration, if there really is an undesirable situation, then it may only be possible to close down at the end of the day, but certainly not haphazardly because someone has a different political preference. I would really like that suggestion to be removed here by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u261	It's not just a suggestion, but I just said this. I'm in favour of that, too. The Minister is right to say that this is not verifiable, that this is not enforceable and that this does not fit in with these institutions. You create something disproportionate. Because you cannot shape it properly, there is a risk that it will be handled very differently. Besides, it's a word that everyone interprets differently. This leads to conclusions that we do not want. I do not want us to include in a law texts that are so unclear that the mayor, or rather Mr Potters, I admit that the person who makes use of this power of supervision can take a decision on the basis of a political preference. Mr De Graaf has clearly mentioned his views on such youth centres. This text should not affect enforcement and monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u262	Now I hear nuance, a balance and a framework. That's Mr Van Weyenberg again. The somewhat tough statement that people would close because of their own preference institutions and that there would be arbitrariness is now, in my view, off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u263	I believe that the reason is that I am not enthusiastic about that amendment in Mr Potters' first answer and also in the second. If he is happy with the second answer, I am pleased, but otherwise it was not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u264	I would like to thank Mr Van Weyenberg for replying to a question from me in the second term. He has clearly explained where his trouble lies. I know that Mr Van Weyenberg is never disgusted with a bit of politics. The suggestion that the petitioner has put it aside is a falsification. In my second term, I indicated that I am not yet convinced, and that is why I asked for further clarification. Perhaps this will help to mitigate Mr Van Weyenberg's political assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u265	That's interesting, but Mr Heerma put me on the wrong track. Not long after the Minister gave him a suggestion, he retabled the amendment, now with an additional applicant. Mr Heerma cannot blame me for stating that he was not convinced by the Minister. He's still giving it a chance. I'd welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u266	In the first term, and also in the little debate with the Minister, I have always said that I appreciate the fact that he is looking for a middle course. I am still not convinced that what the Minister says is true. Mr van Weyenberg is convinced of it. He says it's settled and he makes suggestions for what aldermen can do. My second term was very clear. I'm not convinced yet. I asked the Minister to clarify that. Mr Van Weyenberg has now done so in his own way. I am very curious to see what the Minister will say about it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u267	I'm always curious about the Minister's answers. I repeat what I said. There was a debate between Mr Heerma and the Minister in which the Minister made a suggestion. Two minutes later, I find an amended amendment in my inbox which is the only change that Mr Potters has joined as a petitioner. In that case, Mr Heerma cannot really point out to me that I make the point that the Minister did not change his mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u268	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday and today we talked about a long-cherished wish of the VVD, namely the legal supervision of mosque interiors in the form of a law on youth residences. It's got to be over sedating kids. This is detrimental to the education and integration of these children and thus to society in the long term. Legally enforceable measures will improve the monitoring of these mosque interiors and other boarding houses. Integration must be at the forefront and not segregation. At first, the minister seemed hesitant. Both in the law and in the note on the report, the Minister made the integration aspect of this law unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u269	Maybe I misunderstood. Mr Potters started with: it must be done with harming children. I think that's a big deal. I read the pieces, but I didn't find them anywhere. Mr Potters may have an opinion on youth residences. That's his right, but he's talking about damage now. Those are tough words. Perhaps Mr Potters could explain them or, rather, nuance them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u270	I'll read to you again what I said. It's got to be over sedating kids. This is detrimental to the education and integration of these children. I still fully support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u271	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u272	This while the original motion of the VVD and the PvdA to achieve a quality framework, aims to prevent isolation of children visiting mosque interiors. I am happy, however. I am pleased that today the Minister acknowledges that integration is still part of this bill. Integration issues may also be a reason to close a mosque internate if there is reason to do so. However, we would like to see some extra locks on the door and also some extra guarantees. That is why the VVD will table a number of additional amendments, as will all the other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u273	We are getting curious, Mr Potters, but this can be done formally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u274	Mr Potters said he was going to table a number of amendments. I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u275	No, I'm sorry. I refer to the amendments we have tabled. Those are the extra locks on the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u276	Okay, the curiosity is immediately satisfied with that. I call Mr Kuzu. Where is he? Ah, he's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u277	Mr. Chairman. The debate on this bill has been smeared by the integration debate. We've seen that today. The way in which a number of parties have bombed integration to the top of the bill is a thorn in my group's eye. In our view, the legislative proposal is not based on concrete reasons. Nor has the Minister been able to give a single example, despite the fact that we have repeatedly asked for it. That is why I insist that the proposal is based on unfounded distrust of youth accommodation. Indeed, there is no evidence to support the assumptions about these youth accommodations. This also touches on the issue of what the considerations are in the proposal to move from voluntary supervision to legislation. I would like to stress once again that this voluntary model worked well. We have also asked the Minister about this. We have also asked questions about a number of substantive aspects of the legislative proposal. I would like to begin by addressing the Minister's answers on the approach and the need for this bill. The minister says that an article in the NRC and concerns about insecurity led to the bill. There would also be too little supervision. In addition, the idea of caring for children would have changed in our society. Even if there is a changing view of responsibilities for caring for children, legislation and regulation still need to be based on concrete signals. The Minister cannot give us these concrete signals today. He has said this on several occasions, despite the fact that we have called for these signals to be mentioned. Several colleagues have also said that there would be a parallel society. They have expressed their concerns about this. How would this be facilitated by the youth quarters? The government has not examined the integration of the youth residences. Then why are youth rooms always discussed in this light? Once again, these are unfounded statements, statements without any justification. I am looking in particular at Mr Potters, who is currently talking to Mrs Karabulut and may not find my contribution interesting enough. However, it is neither desirable nor advisable to act on the basis of suspicion. Efforts to achieve a good situation for young people are important, but there are no concrete signs that there is a parallel society in this context. That is why I spoke of distrust, and I repeat: distrust. The concrete signals we do have show that the voluntary journey worked well. It ensured greater transparency and quality assurance. It led to improved relationships between municipalities and youth centres. Most of the youth residences participated in this voluntary course, so most of the youth residences were monitored. There is therefore no lack of supervision. My group therefore continues to question the reasons for this law. We regret that this has been done on the basis of unfounded assumptions. I come to the question of whether youth accommodation has enough time to deal with the forthcoming introduction of the law. In this context, I asked the Minister whether he was prepared to provide for a transitional provision. The Minister didn't think that was necessary. He indicates that most of the youth accommodations already meet the requirements voluntarily. That will not come as a surprise for these institutions. This is without prejudice to the need to measure with two sizes. In other cases, there has been a transitional period, for example in the case of the quality framework for young people. This was a similar process in which youth workers who had to register also had time to insert a transitional provision after the industry organisation urged them to do so. However, if we are talking about youth quarters of a particular signature, then of course none of that is necessary! With youth quarters would have been communicated about the forthcoming bill. In this context, the question arises as to whether all youth accommodations have actually been reached. The Minister himself states that these are estimates. So we don't even know what the scope of the law is. I think that's an important part when you make a law. We have tabled an amendment on this, but the Minister has already indicated that he will not recommend it. Probably the PvdA and the VVD will go along with that. We have also asked questions about the financial compensation of municipalities for an additional task. The Minister states that the burden will be limited. The fact that charges will be low does not, of course, mean that municipalities should not be compensated for this task. After all, for nothing the sun rises. We therefore do not want to wait and see whether the costs will be higher and perhaps to compensate municipalities, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. In addition, the costs possibly associated with, inter alia, re-inspections and registrations are not included in the government's contribution. The Association of Dutch Municipalities also makes this a point. How do we know the costs will be limited? They're all expectations. Since municipalities have already had to deal with a decentralisation round combined with budgetary restraint, we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the bill of the Local Councils Act imposes an additional supervisory task;]] [[Whereas this will lead to additional costs for municipalities;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act, a municipality's legal function must be subject to a financial concession;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate additional funds to the Municipal Fund for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34053-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u278	We consider it unfair that juvenile residences should be subject to similar criteria as, for example, boatmasters' interns. That example is often used. Shippers' internets receive subsidies. Young people's homes do get the burden, but they don't get the pleasure. Especially since youth residences work mainly with volunteers and it is therefore difficult to comply with the provisions, we find this unfair. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the bill of the Youth Accommodation Act will impose different obligations on youth accommodations;]] [[noting that the obligations imposed on young people are comparable to those imposed on subsidised institutions;]] [[Whereas subsidised institutions have more financial scope to adapt their organisation to liabilities than non-subsidised ones;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a fund to support youth residences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34053-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u279	I also asked the Minister whether he was prepared to remove the possibility of unannounced visits. The Minister indicated that the supervisors operate professionally, but that does not alter the fact that the unannounced visit is perceived as disproportionate by the parties concerned. In addition, they experience this as an infringement of privacy and lead to feelings of insecurity among young people. That is exactly the point the Minister wanted to work on with this bill. I don't think that's right. Maybe there are other considerations. With the PvdA spokesperson, that was clear. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say some reassuring words about this. We continue to worry about the proportionality and effects of unannounced visits. We have therefore tabled an amendment which states that a visit by the supervisor is to be announced at least four weeks in advance, as is the case when visiting schools. We also consider the fact that municipalities are not obliged to visit youth accommodation once a year to be disproportionate. We consider it more reasonable to include visitors only if there are risks. The Education Inspectorate also works on the basis of risk selection. We have tabled an amendment on this subject which regulates supervision risk-oriented. It cannot be the case, when it comes to youth centres, that we make a compulsory visit and that the Minister in his reply states that we will come back to that in the evaluation and then look at whether it is risk-oriented. This is a double measure for me. Finally, the well-being of young people is our priority, let there be no misunderstanding. We're right in front of that. However, it should not be the case that laws are created on the basis of unfounded assumptions resulting from the gut feelings of a Member of Parliament who is now leaving the Chamber. The Minister has also proved unable in this debate to provide concrete examples of abuses in juvenile quarters. The concrete signal we have received is that the voluntary framework is working well. We continue to question the approach of this law. It should not be surprising that we tend to vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u280	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, after the first term, our day continued. Later in the evening I was in Luxembourg for a meeting with my colleagues from Social Affairs. Slightly tired I arrived in my hotel room. I looked out the window and saw a sign with an arrow to Echternach. It appears to be a place in Luxembourg; you know, of Echternach's procession. I was thinking back to the day and the integration debate. I also thought back to the struggle, as Mr De Graaf calls it, and to the balance sheet, as several Members of Parliament call it, sometimes two steps forward and sometimes one step backwards. That's part of the integration debate. We all feel, I think, an enormous impatience to accelerate integration and to ensure that it improves faster, that the innerisation of values goes faster, that people are more fully part of society and that they are better accepted in our society. However, when applying the instruments, you must always be cautious. This came out strongly in this debate. As far as I am concerned, integration must be determined by the values we defend here, by the fundamental rights and by the universal values of Dutch society. Part of this is that you are reluctant to interfere in the freedom that people have to set up their own lives, raise their own children and make choices in them. These may be choices that some in the Chamber may find unwise, but it is part of the Dutch core values that you allow people to make that assessment themselves. I have felt the tension and the search for that balance in this debate. We haven't been able to solve it either. Not because one party is more right than the other, but because that tension is there. That's a fact. During the integration debate and the integration policy in the Netherlands, we have no choice but to conduct the debate with each other in an open manner, without in advance constantly questioning each other's intentions and respecting those freedoms of all Dutch people, as different as they are. For me, it is important to recognise that the concerns about how children grow up in these boarding schools are sincere. We know that it is good for children if they are not just in their own group. We know that it is good if they come into contact with others, they get to know others and they can move into others. The prejudices, we have seen this week's research. In the end, we can only disappear if you move into the other. That's why you need to meet. The freedom of people to make their own choices, even if it means sending your children to a mono-ethnic school, a mono-ethnic boarding school or a mono-ethnic religiously tinted education, is a great asset. We must deal with this freedom with extreme precision: certainly on the values and reluctantly with the law. In integration, the law is not our main instrument. Once you force integration with the law and go beyond what is strictly necessary, you also remove something from the freedom that belongs to our core values. We know that most of the millions of Muslims in Dutch society are proud of these freedoms and those core values and want to benefit from them. We also know that they sometimes feel that double standards are being applied. They are looking at how we deal with their constitutional freedoms. The Muslims, who do not wear headscarfs, nikabs or burqa, also want to see that we also treat their fundamental rights purely. I think this has happened in this debate. I believe that this will lead to this law contributing to integration, like many of our laws that do not have the primary objective of integration, indeed contributing to integration. Think about the law on compulsory education. It makes a huge contribution to integration, but that is not the main objective of the law. At the same time, we are monitoring the balance so as not to go too far in relation to fundamental rights because of the genuine concerns about the integration of children into our society. That argument is the basis of my reservations. Mr Heerma asked me for a more detailed explanation. I shall not go further than this. Mr Heerma is actually asking for something else. He also asks for a technical exercise on feasibility et cetera. Let me do it this way. I would like to turn the pre-opinion into a letter so that I can get the arguments straight. In the meantime, I think we know each other in this house from a cooperation focused on the content. If I come to the conclusion that I have seen it all wrong, that those objections do not apply, I will add that. I'm counting on the room. If I point out, even after careful consideration with my people, that it is really not sensible, that it is not feasible or that it is an overreaction in the context of fundamental rights, then I know Mr Heerma as the first person to be sensitive to it. I'll send that letter to the Chamber for the votes. I respect the fact that there are also people who say: no, those boarding schools and youth homes should have been invented today if they weren't already there, because children get homework guidance and a lot of wonderful volunteering is being done. You can see that this brings kids a lot further. The respect I feel in this respect for Mr Kuzu's speech, who had just kept track of who had left the Chamber when he spoke, declined accordingly when I heard how he thought he could be very high on horseback about the intentions of others, while he and one after the other took on the personal intentions of colleagues. So you see how closely that listens, how important it is that you really listen to the other person in such a debate and listen to the other person's intentions. I find it difficult to take someone seriously who behaves that way against colleagues when his points are quite legitimate and worth listening to. Before Mr De Graaf mentioned the litany he knew and expected about Islam as the cause of all problems, he had a very reasonable input. He described the struggle and the dilemmas that play a role for his group in supporting or not supporting a bill. This bill codifies a practice that Mr De Graaf has difficulty with, yet he sees it as a step forward in the interests of those children. How big that step is, he'll make it smaller and smaller, and I forgive him. But I do appreciate that. I find the second part of his speech disgusting. He knows that about me, too. I think that's how he puts people away and makes suspects on the basis of a group. I think that by doing so, he associates people with violence through their individual beliefs, with all kinds of horrible things in our society. The first part of his speech is what I'm going to try to remember, because I've heard the second part before. Was this a difficult debate for me? I think so. This balance creates a quest in which you always try to take into account the importance of society in order to ensure that integration succeeds as quickly as possible and the importance of every individual in that society to be respected and accepted in its fundamental rights. However, I do not think that this is a reason not to have this kind of debate. These debates, as well as those following these debates, also contribute to the integration process as such. The De Graaf motion in part No. Twenty-seven, I'm not sure. Mr De Graaf is not even disappointed anymore, according to his body language; he knows that. The Kuzu motion in part No. 28, I also advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u281	I was listening with interest to the Minister and all his qualifications. Again, I am not waiting for an assessment of my input. The Minister continues to appreciate the motion, because I am certainly disappointed. The motion literally states that those who sow Islam will reap sharia. The Minister is partly guilty of this by dissuading this motion, but he is going to see it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u282	I choose to ignore the threatening undertone of that. The PVV is always looking for the means by which I defy the honourable Member most: by naming the discriminatory nature of the input or by giving a compliment. I have both done it and I have the impression that the compliment hurt Mr De Graaf the most. Mr Kuzu's motions have actually already been discussed in the first term. I dissuade them because I honestly don't think they're necessary. I have argued in detail why the unexpected inspections are taking place precisely in the interests of the children. I would like to thank Mr Bishop for the way in which we have been able to talk about his amendments. I promised a letter to the CDA, but I gave the more morally motivated and ground-based explanation here. At the SP I have tried not only to acknowledge that there may be uncertainty, but also to explain where this uncertainty arises. After all, there is a tension between the different goals that I see as soluble. This means that there is a distinction between subsidised and non-subsidised. If the government subsidises, it is much more likely that it will also make further demands on the way organisations behave. This applies not only to this subject but also to others. There are all kinds of rules for subsidised childcare. Those rules are not there or to a much lesser extent when someone comes to a private home to look after, while this babysitter takes care of a child. This has to do with the fact that the government is considering a more far-reaching interference with the grant, which may involve monitoring. This can go further than private institutions. Here, for very good reasons, we are choosing a legal framework for the protection of the child. The argument that the law should not provide protection if it is not first proven wrongdoing is a dangerous one. Even if no one's killed, I'd like to ban murder. It is precisely when it comes to the importance of children that there is the principle of protection. You have to look together to see how as a government you can fulfil your duty of care to protect all children in this country. I have already promised Mr Van Weyenberg or Mrs Yücel, in the first period of the debate, to clarify non-incidental or structural issues in the context of the AMvB. I am concerned that the amendment in the form in which it was tabled would go too far. I understand and appreciate the concern expressed by Mrs Karabulut about the provision in the law. I don't think that care is necessary, but the commitment stands. I will ensure that we provide as much clarity as possible in the lower regulation. Why did you have to wait so long? I gave you the voluntary quality framework as soon as it was there. That is the basis, in combination with the first supervisory experience. I'll give you the AMvB soon. We agreed on the procedure for this in the first period. D66 indicated that the evaluation should also include points on the role of the municipality and how to deal with the annual monitoring versus risk-driven monitoring. For the sake of clarity, I would like to mention the points raised by Mr Van Weyenberg in the evaluation. I still have the amendment to item No. 25 which has been amended in accordance with my request and of which I leave the judgment to the Chamber. My pre-opinion on the amendment to item No. 26 stays negative. The request to amend it shall remain valid. In addition, I will send a letter to the Chamber in which I give my arguments on the more technical answers requested by Mr Heerma. That brings me to the end of my speech. I would like to thank the Chamber and the President for this intensive but interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u283	We're not quite done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u284	I have one more question. When will we get the information from the Minister about the organisations concerned and the underlying vision of what is happening in these boarding schools, so a qualitative description of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u285	That is a question that belongs more to the debate that Mrs Karabulut and I have had recently on the alleged change of government policy towards these organisations. We agreed then that we would come back to that, that it is not over. The moments agreed there are the first moments when I can inform the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u286	Yeah, but I'm gonna ask you a very specific question about those mosque interns. Then what's the next time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u287	The next time for a qualitative judgment will be a certain period after the law has come into force. Then there are results of monitoring and inspection which I can provide to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u288	I understand where the minister is going with this, but this is just as much as a supplement to the law. The Minister said in first and second terms that much of the debate on integration issues is outside this law. I am concerned about the insight that the Minister has now received, after two years of voluntary engagement. There are now alliances. What are the organisations behind these boarding schools? What do they stand for? What tapes are there? What's going on in these boarding schools? For such a qualitative description you do not have to wait for an evaluation of the law. I would very much appreciate it if we could get it right after the summer, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u289	Mrs Karabulut herself states that this is actually outside the scope of the legal process. There are also all kinds of times when she has the opportunity to discuss this with me. That's what happened recently. Those moments are coming again, so I cannot accept this request in the context of this legal process. We talked yesterday and today about the merits of this law. Any requests for information and clarification from organisations, I am sorry to say, cannot be accepted in the light of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-18-tweedekamer-13.u290	I would like to thank the Minister, the Members and the other Members for their efforts. There will be another letter for the votes, which will be Tuesday.
