ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u1	I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The present Improved Authorisation, Monitoring and Enforcement Act, abbreviated VTH, has as its starting point the improvement of quality and cooperation in this VTH domain in the environment services. We in the PVV Group consider these principles to be very important. After all, it is a question of ensuring safety and health in our environment. It is precisely for this reason that this needs to be properly and efficiently regulated. Unfortunately, we have to note that this legislative proposal does not provide the most appropriate framework in a number of respects to achieve this. In the written round, our group asked the cabinet a number of questions about this bill. The answer gives rise to a reflection in this debate. With regard to enforcement priorities, we have noted that the explanatory memorandum states that these are established by all enforcement partners participating in the environmental service. On our question of how this relates to the democratic accountability of the competent authorities, the Secretary of State stated that agreements are made on this matter within the management of the common system of environmental services, or that it is decided by the majority. In doing so, the Secretary of State indicated that the aldermen and the delegates who form part of the administration of the environmental service are democratically accountable for their actions in the administration. It goes without saying that these directors are theoretically democratically accountable, but good public accountability also requires accountability and accountability. These elements are not covered by a common system for the environment service. Although the legislative proposal includes an obligation to investigate and report in the context of horizontal supervision, its results remain the result of collective agreements in the management of the environmental service. This makes public accountability very diffuse in practice: if directors are addressed by the city council or provincial states, they can hide behind these collective agreements or majorities within the common regime. Then how are these directors still democratically steerable and checkable? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. In the context of public accountability, I would like to point out that the bill on lifting the criminal immunity of political officials was recently voted down in this Chamber. The opponents of this bill stated in the debate that democratic control adequately provides for the checkability of directors. The VTH Act only makes the possibilities for democratic control and settlement more difficult. Is one afraid to be dealt with? I now come to our questions about efficiency gains in environmental services. In its reply, the Secretary of State states: "I have not received any signals that, in the context of that controlling task of the Councils and States, it has been established that the expected efficiency is not being achieved structurally by the environmental services set up. My expectations of efficiency gains are therefore still positive." Those signals are definitely there. In my own province of North Brabant, where I am active as a member of the State, there are even plenty of signals. We are constantly confronted with disappointing efficiency in environmental services. In the provincial government agreement, the three environmental services in Brabant are even appointed as a constant concern. Several times these environmental services have come into financial trouble and the province had to step in. In addition, directors are forced to replace and service agreements are suspended. Earlier this year, the deputy responsible for the VTH tasks stated that these "are not done better by the environmental services than when we were doing it ourselves." Are these signals unknown to the Secretary of State? I'd like to get a reaction to that. To our questions about the revenue effects, the Secretary of State stated: "The revenue effects will mainly occur because the contributions required by the participating authorities to the budget of the environmental services will be less high than if there were no participation in an environmental service." On what basis does the Secretary of State base the assumption that governments would lose less money in participating in an environmental service? In practice, as can be seen from the signals from the province, the costs for participating governments increase precisely, not only because of higher quality standards and a higher frequency of enforcement, but also because of efficient cases, but above all because of organisational problems. In the income models of the environmental services there is often a mismatch between work and staff. There is often a contraction in the number of assignments. Municipalities carry out less voluntary tasks than the organisation of an environmental service. At the same time, the necessary expertise among the staff is not present in the right proportions, due to the input of staff from the various authorities. In addition, it is often necessary to pay extra employees, often with continuous contracts or job guarantees. In addition, the missing knowledge has to be hired externally. In addition, the newly formed environmental services have rented expensive office locations and have sometimes grown for many tons to house their organisation. The Secretary of State indicated that he did not have an overview of these costs at national level. We would therefore like a clear answer from the Secretary of State to the question on which her assumption is based that the costs for participating authorities in an environmental service would be lower. The opposite seems to be the case. Finally, the most fundamental objection of the PVV Group. This bill should ensure quality in the environmental services. The Secretary of State chooses to allow only common regulations. This will make network environment services, as they now operate efficiently in some regions, impossible. As indicated, there are many disadvantages to the common arrangements: lack of democratic control and check-inability, undetectable efficiency and often an additional cost. For the time being, practice does not show that the intended quality of the VTH tasks improves through the environmental services. That is why we would like to hear from the Secretary of State what makes the straitjacket of the common rules so essential in this legislative proposal, whereas this is not evident from practice. I would like to hear a response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hattem. The Secretary of State has requested a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Hattem criticises the bill now before us on three points. He initially says that he has doubts about the controllability and checkability needed to enable the environmental services to function properly. The second discussion concerns the intended impact on efficiency to be achieved, and a third point is the question of why, in his words, the straitjacket of the Common Regulations Act is necessary. I would like to reply to all three points, but I would like to start with a statement. This bill has not only not come out of the sky, it has not come out for nothing either. This has to do with a stack of reports, starting with Mr Mans' report, which found that the quality of supervision and enforcement leaves much to be desired. In my view, Mr Van Hattem and I agree on the need for something to change. One of the central problems identified in Mr Mans' report is that there is fragmentation in combination with non-committal cooperation and implementation. I would say: hold those two terms for a moment, because they are quite relevant to the answer I am going to give to the three questions that have been asked. Following the Mans report, the opinion of the Oosting Committee and a number of motions from both the First and the Second Chamber followed. Unfortunately, I would add, there were also several large and sometimes also smaller incidents in chemical companies, for example. These have merely underlined the need to improve monitoring and enforcement. I'll start with the questions about the driverability and the checkability. These questions can be reduced to the core: is there sufficient democratic control of the environment service possible? As mentioned above: municipalities and provinces are competent authority for licensing, supervision and enforcement, the tasks of the General Environmental Law Provisions Act (Wabo). They may delegate that competence to the director of an environmental service, but they are and remain responsible for the decisions and they are also democratically accountable. In fact, the present bill doesn't change anything about that. The bill, as well as the AMvB, merely provides for a number of tasks to be carried out by the environmental services. That is the so-called basic task. That will also be included in the AMvB. An environmental service is an execution service of and also for municipalities and provinces. They own the environmental service and also the client. In the context of the award of the contract, the competent authority may issue a mandate. The practice is that the mandates vary in scope from one municipality to another. This may range from, for example, advising only the competent authority on taking a decision to actually take a decision. Whatever the scope of the mandate, it seems to me to be a good thing to say it out loud here. An alderman or deputy is always democratically responsible. This means that there is accountability for acting in, for example, one's own council or in the States. That, I say to Mr Van Hattem, is not possible to hide. Some people might want to, but it can't be, because in principle the negotiating mandate is something that, for example, is established for an alderman from the city council. If there is a change to that decision, because it has been decided in common, then of course the alderman has to answer for his or her actions in the same city council again. That process is there and remains there. This is my answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thanks for the answer. That's the theory. In practice it happens that the responsible alderman or deputy, whom I am dealing with as a member of the State, says: sorry, but we only own a limited part of that environmental service; we can do it differently but the majority of the board decides; we as one of many are not the majority. That's the practice, and that's what I mean by "hiding." This bill contains the enforcement priorities and they are quite essential. If there is less maintenance on a particular part and it goes wrong on that, then there is actually a case of which one can say: sorry, the majority has decided and I have no part in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u6	I will take you back to the origins of the legislative proposal, in which the identified fragmentation and non-committality were at the heart of the problem. We're gonna need a scaling-up. This has already been achieved in practice. In fact, the environmental services already function, but they do not yet have a legal framework. That's what we're offering now. The democratic process that was already there remains. In addition, the moment you take responsibility for each other, you might say "sorry, but the majority has decided," but you still remain responsible. The city council and the States factions can really find something of that. That debate is therefore still possible. Perhaps a majority of States will have to choose another priority. I assume that will then be a fact for all those involved. That's how it works, and that's how it keeps working. I come to the second point on which Mr Van Hattem is critical. He asks whether it is as efficient as it is intended and intended. What does that prove? Municipalities and provinces direct on the budget and on the achievement of their financial objectives. As I said, they are also co-owners of an environmental service. It has always been the case, also from the point of view of history, that efficiency was part of the considerations. One of my predecessors, Mr Atsma, indicated by letter to the House of Representatives of 26 June 2012 that an investigation has also taken place into the costs and benefits of setting up environmental services. That investigation was sent to the Chamber and the following picture emerged from it, which is also recognizable in the way Van Hattem talks about it. There are, of course, initial costs and residual costs. This includes project costs and ICT development. Everyone who has to do with organisations and ICT knows that this is always expensive, even though sometimes it doesn't seem to be. That was calculated in advance here. The temporary vacancy of offices and the cost of a social plan also played a role. At the same time, the investigation showed that in the long term benefits are achieved in terms of scaling up and lower overhead. This happens in the long term; it just takes time, probably six years anyway; the report states that this is the period after which initial and residual costs can be recovered. Sharing expertise is also an advantage. One of the problems was that for a good control of complex matter, for example on chemical companies, it was logical to scale up to have the expertise in order. It can be combined in this way. So there really is an advantage in that. The Empire, of course, saw that those initial and residual costs would have been there, which were also referred to by Mr Van Hattem and contributed 25 million to the recovery of the costs in the first phase. Mr Van Hattem mentioned the situation in Central and West Brabant. It is true that there is a discussion about this. I don't have a detailed overview of what's going on there, financially. I know, however, that the 2014 annual report stated that until 1 July 2014 there was a flawed view of revenue and expenditure. They are now working on improving financial security and control. You see sometimes when you're remodeling while the store stays open, things don't go well everywhere. That also commands honesty to say. The other way around, however, is not to say: n=1. Of course, we'll keep an eye on that. This will be reviewed and monitored in due course. It also seems important to me to keep a close eye on that. The last point concerns Mr Van Hattem's question: why do we have to work in this WGR? Why can't existing networks continue to operate in environmental services if they have already done so? This has to do with these two issues: fragmentation and non-committality in supervision. Municipalities could simply decide to stop participating in the system. Staff are not employed by a network organization. Moreover, Mr Van Hattem's form is not organised in such a way that he is a legal person who can participate independently in legal proceedings. This hampers the proper, independent performance of the tasks and the desired quality development. We didn't want any more commitment. In the case of the model we now choose, that is no longer possible. By the way, this has also been tried out in the Second Chamber debate. That's been a discussion. Motions have been tabled from both points of view. I have to say that a large majority in the House of Representatives has finally accepted that it is wise to work with the model that we are now prescribing, also for the reasons I have just mentioned. With this I wanted to conclude my input. I think that much is necessary in what needs to be changed. It's actually already started. What we are doing now is simply to give a legal framework to organisations that have already changed in advance. I sincerely hope that the Chamber will be prepared to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u7	In doing so, we shall have the second term of office. I call Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. We have a difference of opinion and conviction on a number of points about the degree of success this bill will have. One point I keep asking myself, having heard the statement of the Secretary of State. She says there's start-up costs. She says that during the renovation there are always costs to create a new organization. However, in answering our questions, she clearly indicated that she expects the costs to be reduced, that municipalities and provinces will be less lost by participating in the environmental service. Can the Secretary of State explicitly state what the assumption is based on that if we are a few years ahead, there will actually be lower costs? What we have seen so far in practice is that the costs are only increasing. This concerns not only initial costs but also structural problems that arise in the environmental service. How hard are the guarantees that these structural problems will really be resolved in a few years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hattem. Secretary of State, will you be able to answer directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u10	Mr. Chairman. Once again, at the start of this operation, we looked closely at what Mr Van Hattem is referring to. Some of the costs he is currently raising were also expected at the time. It is also for this reason that the Empire has made 25 million extra available. I have just said the other way around that, in the long term, we are thinking of a six-year period, the fact that you will have less overhead and that expertise can be shared at a higher level of added value for the system. At the same time, Mr Van Hattem has taken that into account in his own questions, of course, there may be reason to continue to enforce or monitor them. If this is necessary for social reasons, this should not be taken into account in the functioning of the environmental service, because even without the legislative proposal there would probably have been significant pressure on the finances of the various local authorities. I think Mr Van Hattem is right to ask whether there is an advantage in scaling up, because that is what this is really about. I say with him that these advantages do not occur as quickly as some hope. The latter was, by the way, foreseen. At the same time, my reasoning remains that, at the moment when you are doing more together in terms of overhead and expertise, economies of scale do occur. However, we may have to agree that, for example, more supervision and/or enforcement is needed. Then the costs will increase, which by the way has less to do with the organisation and more to do with the social environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-01-eerstekamer-7.u11	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on this bill next Tuesday.
