ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u2	Maybe you could explain to me what free rentals are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u3	I'll do my best. The Financieele Dagblad today reports what the VVD has been hearing from investors for a long time: they simply do not come to locations to develop free rental homes. Those are rentals that are outside the social sector. 650 million euros of pension funds earmarked for rentals remain unused, while some 40,000 rentals will be needed over the next five years. This coalition has taken serious steps to turn the housing market into a serious market; a market where supply and demand come together, a market where people get the house they want, just a nice place to live. We have calm and clarity, brought to the market and we have less rest, but we have made it clear in the social rental sector. Corporates are doing what they were once founded for. Nice homes for people with the smallest wallet, that's social rent. In this way we have not only shaken the corporate world and given the sector a new strategic direction, but we have also addressed tenants with a higher income. Those people must either buy a house or look for a home in the free rental sector, not today in the morning but preferably in a few years' time. Then the free rental sector must also be there. At the moment less than 9% of the houses in the Netherlands fall into that category. There is a strong need for houses with a rent between €700 and €1,100. I come to my questions. Does the Minister recognise these problems and the figures mentioned? What should municipalities do to encourage free rent within their borders? Does the Minister share the VNG's view that the land price has hardly any impact on these problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Linde rightly notes that in the coming years there will be a particular demand for rentals in the free sector. These are properties with a rent between €710, the liberalisation limit, and €900, in some places perhaps €1,000. This is the result of changes in the labour market. There are morezzp'ers and more people with a temporary contract of employment. It is also a result of changes in the housing market. The good news is that Mr Van der Linde rightly points out that there is a lot of money available from investors, for example Dutch but also foreign pension funds, who are very keen to meet that demand. The article in Het Financieele Dagblad this morning pointed out that these investors often encounter the problem that municipalities do not yet have the free rental sector on the retina. Mr Van der Linde's first question is whether I know that problem. Yeah, and that means we're doing something about it, too. The good news is that a lot of municipalities are actually working on it. I was together with the G-4 yesterday at a meeting where we talked to investors together to bring them to invest in rental homes in large cities. I notice in talks with medium-sized municipalities that the free rental sector is often new, but in the context of the introduction of the new Housing Act on 1 July, we are currently organising meetings in many places in the country with municipalities, with tenant associations, with housing corporations and therefore with investors to point out to them the opportunities that are now emerging. Especially in smaller places, it is not just about the big investors, the pension funds, but also about local entrepreneurs. For example, in the context of their pension provision, they set up a number of rental homes there. Do I agree with the VNG's statement that the land price is not the problem? Traditionally, many municipalities only do business with housing corporations or with property developers for the purchasing sector. The land for housing corporations is offered at a heavily subsidised price, and for residential properties at the highest possible price. Municipalities now have the emphasis on directing the housing market. So they will make living visions. A wise congregation will no longer apply a division of land but a three-part division of land. They will offer a third segment to investors in the free rental sector. The land is owned by municipalities but often also by construction companies that can make their own choices. A wise municipality will say: this part of the land I offer to investors in rental homes. The fact that they are seeking the highest price in there seems to me to be a matter of good merchantship. In any case, they ensure that there is also an offer for middle income in their municipality. For a healthy building of the municipality this is only good. The demand for housing is being met by an important group, actually the backbone of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u5	This composition of the housing stock is, of course, a long-term issue. It is good to hear that there is enough money, but of course I had already read that. It's also good that the G-4 take action, but what about all the other municipalities? I appreciate the Minister's efforts to convey the message on this, but what are we doing with municipalities which, despite everything, have very poor housing vision and which do not actually have a long-term view of the housing market? Do we have to arrange something for that or is that going to happen now that the corporations have a new rate? Should we, as a policy in The Hague, interfere with this, or does the Minister see this as a task for provinces and municipalities? As you could expect from a VVD, I hope that we do not have to make additional rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Van der Linde asks whether we should take additional action towards municipalities. In this Chamber, in the new House Act, we have widely agreed that the direction on the housing market, the provision of housing demand, goes to the municipalities because it is difficult to judge from The Hague exactly how the housing demand in Amsterdam, Roermond or Winsum is. There is, of course, local democratic control. Middle-income people are the largest group in the Netherlands, so in a healthy democracy, political parties will also realize that they have to meet the demand for middle-priced rentals. That does not mean that I think that we should throw everything over the fence. That is why we agreed with each other that we should keep our finger on the pulse every year by looking at the local arrangements nationwide and that we should also keep our finger on the pulse in terms of the size and accessibility of the housing stock. Around the introduction of the Housing Act, I also deliberately organise a meeting. In addition, I have regular meetings with aldermen and the VNG to make it clear that they have to make sure that the segment of middle-priced rentals is really addressed in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u7	I thank the Minister for his reply. I suspect that we will return to this subject in the context of the State of the housing market or in the context of the budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u8	Isn't the problem also in the Minister's own policy? The idea behind the housing agreement and significantly limiting the possibilities of housing corporations, which built a lot of houses, was that individuals would take the initiative more often and build more. This does not seem to be the case. Isn't that because they simply get too little return on that category of affordable housing? Shouldn't the Minister conclude that the current housing agreement in this area simply doesn't work, because people for the more expensive category simply have too little income, because the market doesn't fill that gap because they earn too little and because the minister himself makes it impossible to build more social housing? In short, should the Minister's policy not be different? Shouldn't it be reversed, for example by severely limiting the mortgage interest rate deduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u9	Before we talk about changing the policy, I think it would be a good idea to properly name the various parts of Mrs Karabulut's speech. Mrs Karabulut refers to the settlement agreement. In the housing agreement is the part that people who live on high incomes in a social housing unit can pay a high rent increase, on the assumption that these rental homes are needed for low-income people. The House Act, which, fortunately, was also adopted with the support of Mrs Karabulut's party, includes the part that housing corporations focus on social housing, after all the failed adventures in the commercial sector. We agreed on that, too. The demand for free sector housing by pension funds and other investors is therefore foreseen. The problem is not that they are not interested; that is the very essence of the article to which Mr Van der Linde refers. The interest is enormous. There is an enormous amount of Dutch and foreign pension money, which used to be often invested in rental homes, but which has been chased out, partly because of the role that housing corporations have played in the free sector, and now wants it back. The problem is not, therefore, that there is no money, but that problem often occurs in this Chamber. There is a lot of money available, but that money is only looking for land to build those homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u10	The cabinet first chases out the middle class of its social housing and then there's nowhere for those people to go. Buying is often not an option and renting is not possible, because the municipality often thinks of its own interest. We have had a debate on this. A lot of municipalities behave like land speculators. They speculate on the back of their own inhabitants with land to make some money from it, resulting in huge losses. I have therefore asked the Minister for a law to stop the speculation by municipalities, but the Minister is not in favour of that. Can the Minister explain again why he thinks that municipalities can continue to speculate with land, which is what is happening now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Madlener is right that in the recent past municipalities have suffered enormous losses on land they had purchased for housing, which then turned out to be neither a question nor at least at the price that the municipalities thought they would get. Mr Madlener asks if I want to ban it in the future. With all due respect, that's a bit of winning the last war. Municipalities don't buy land on a large scale anymore. The municipalities and the municipal councils, which control them, have learned their lesson in this respect. Most municipalities have a lot of land and are now faced with the task of providing them with a good place to live. In this respect, this morning's article is a bit harsh: a lot of municipalities with a lot of land. If pension funds want to build rental homes somewhere, they seem too often to stand in front of a closed door or at least too expensive a door. However, that is a different issue than the failed speculations in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u12	We naturally support the policy of making the social housing stock available to the people with the lowest incomes in particular. That's what you need flowing through. The people who are encouraged to flow need alternatives, but there is no alternative. Does the Minister really think that the private sector throughout the country will provide for this? Are there not also other parties such as the corporations in the shrinking areas needed to provide this offer? The Huizenprijs Committee has recommended that forms of scarcity in the housing market be avoided as far as possible. One of the recommendations she made was to oblige municipalities and perhaps other landowners to tender when they intend to issue land, so that parties have a fair chance to join that market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr De Vries asks whether there are any interested parties outside the major cities. My answer to that is a definite yes. I have also seen examples of entrepreneurs in small villages, and I gave the example of Mr Van der Linde who set up an office with one floor apartments above it, not only as a pension provision but also as a contribution to the community. Hence my message to municipalities: not only focus on the ABPs, the PGGMs and foreign pension funds, but also have a good conversation with business associations. As far as the role of housing corporations is concerned, we have quite deliberately said in the Housing Act: if the market does not want to do it demonstrably, for example in shrinking areas or in urban renewal areas, then a housing corporation can also build free-sector housing if it benefits the composition of the village or district.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u14	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-08-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr De Vries, your group has run out of questions, so I can no longer grant them. I thank the Minister for his answers and for coming to the Chamber. That concludes Question Time.
