ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs. Before Mr Koolmees starts his term, he has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u2	The Minister of Finance is already aware of my question. Yesterday, in response to factual questions, he wrote that a passage was added to the Stability Programme on the reform of the tax system and the relationship with the structural reform clause of the Stability and Growth Pact. My request to the Minister is whether he could send that passage to the Chamber prior to his first term. Then we can debate this in the first term of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u3	I'll see if I can find the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u4	In fact, that passage is in the answer to question 8, at the bottom of page 4, in the last paragraph. If Mr Koolmees wanted to use the word'system review' as a reference to 'tax reform', we would have the complete text.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u5	Can you do that in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u6	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u7	Mr Koolmees, would you still like to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u8	Oh, yeah. So you can see how quickly things can be solved. Mr. Chairman. It was a while ago: crisis in the coalition. After the crisis of care in December, the VVD and the Labour Party promised a long campaign of peace and stability. But no, right after the elections, the VVD wanted to close the borders and strengthen ties with dictators, and now the coalition has been negotiating for a week something that should be taken for granted in a civilized country. Of course, VVD and PvdA should provide bed-bath bread, but they should also talk about work, work, work. Indeed, 650,000 people are still unemployed, and that number is barely falling. People worry about their future, but the VVD and the Labour Party prefer to worry about themselves. I have two main questions for this debate. One. What's the Cabinet gonna do? Two. How's the Cabinet gonna do this? I'll start with the question of what the cabinet is going to do. A lot has happened in recent years. The AOW age, the WW, the dismissal right, the housing market, the care: in many areas, the cabinet, encouraged by D66, has thoroughly reformed. My compliments on that. But what now? What is the cabinet going to do in the second half of the cabinet period? It's going to take another two years. The Council of State says that there is more danger of delay than of too much urgency. There's so much to do. In our pension system we save a lot, but that power is stuck. At the same time, the Dutch have huge debts. One and a half million houses are underwater. That makes us vulnerable when things go a little less. The pension system is still entirely geared towards people who work for the same boss for 40 years. That's not like this anymore. That is why we also see that people are going to work around it and that the basis of support disappears under the system. With 650,000 unemployed there is an important task for the cabinet: more purchasing power, more jobs. Lower taxes on labour can lead to this. People get to spend more, work becomes more attractive and employers hire people faster. Since 2010, there has been talk of tax reform, but this cabinet has been in the refrigerator for two years, while lower taxes on labour, greening and an easier system should be the top priority. My first main question is: what is the cabinet going to do? In that context, I have a number of specific questions. The Minister wrote yesterday: new policies must be integrated into the existing spending frameworks. Does this also apply to additional expenditure on defence or to the solution to the problems in the area of security and justice, so that the cuts in registry rights and legal aid do not take place? And what does this mean for the gas benefits? These are technically excluded from the expenditure framework, but in the event of less gas extraction, the structural EMU balance will deteriorate. According to the Council of State, this does not fit in with the European agreements. The question is, how does the cabinet solve that? Finally, how much money is there for the tax review? The cabinet is negotiating with ministers on the expenditure side of the budget. In the meantime, he's got to have an image. My second main question is: how is the cabinet going to do that? To be honest, I have a déjà vu, because two years ago we also had this debate with this cabinet, without a majority, but with plans. Now there's a cabinet with no majority and no plans. Once again, there is no shortage of parties who wish to participate. Even the SP wants in this time. Only the PVV, Mr Van Dijck, is familiar with the sidelines. What are the plans? Everyone wants something else. The CDA wants to cut down and delevelise, the VVD wants to sneak up on that, but they can't do this from the PvdA and the PvdA can't compete in the leveling drive of the SP, because then the VVD says no again. Let me be clear: D66 wants lower taxation for people who work, an understandable tax system without pumping around all kinds of surcharges and really getting started with fiscal greening, so that we tax pollution and waste instead of work. As long as the VVD and the PvdA go on the street arguing, unfortunately, that is something that I explicitly say to the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u9	Mr. Chairman. The Stability Programme gives the impression that this Finance Minister is going to keep his hand on the cut. This means that the deficit will fall further to 1.2% of our GDP in 2016. The path to economic recovery is still fragile. Is it true that he doesn't use windfalls in the budget deficit for extra expenses? The CDA does not have a negative attitude towards reducing charges, but considers it important that burden relief is based on structural budgetary space and not on a cyclical downturn. Does the Minister agree with the CDA? When we look at the figures, we see that we have no windfalls at all within the 2016 expenditures. The 2015 Central Economic Plan even shows a deficit of 800 million euros. Of these, 2.6 billion are in the departments. One of the biggest windfalls is remarkably the concern. It's 2.1 billion. I would also like to say that, as a spokesman for health care, we know that we must treat them with great caution. However, it is becoming increasingly apparent that the cabinet has overestimated the basic path for care. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to this cautious assumption. Now I come to, probably, the biggest disappointment: the gas benefits. In the letter we received, the cabinet still assumed a gas extraction of 39.4 billion cubic metres for 2015 and 2016. This morning we received a new letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs, in which he says that it will be 36.4 billion cuub for 2015. What will the Minister say to Brussels? It is now, we must acknowledge, inevitable that for the safety of the people of Groningen gas extraction will go even further down. For 2016, the CDA is missing this second step in the reduction in communication to Brussels. I ask the two ministers why they are not clarifying this. This is what Mr Koolmees said, even though this has a significant impact on the budget. The government has already shown its willingness to review the tax system. Can the Minister confirm once again that the Chamber can look forward to a detailed plan for the summer? Indeed, in answer to question 8 the Minister gave more clarity on what he is going to say to Brussels about the tax review. This passage is extremely vague. The Minister doesn't say anything about the year 2016. Does the Minister expect to be able to report on this in 2016, or is the cabinet not going to reduce any burdens at all? I would like to stress this because you can see in the figures that the tax burden is rising again in 2016. On the contrary, the Netherlands does not need this. The growth in consumer spending, which is very important for economic recovery, remains rather hesitant. In this context, it is a pity that the successful low VAT rate for sustainability will disappear as of 1 July. Hopefully, the Minister for Economic Affairs will also have difficulty with this, especially in view of the difficulties he has in achieving the commitments of the Energy Agreement on Sustainability by 2020. How does the Minister view the low VAT rate? Does he expect that keeping the VAT rate lower for longer can further boost the recovery but also the sustainability? What is more striking in the figures for 2015 and 2016, is that imports of goods and services, 4,8%, are increasing by percentage more than exports of goods and services: 5,3%. Those are remarkable figures. What are the causes of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to welcome Mrs Bruins Slot to our committee. I am pleased to say that we have just talked about the fact that the christian part here delivers only the women. That's what I wanted to say. At a time when the cabinet is mainly concerned with itself, there must also be a letter to Brussels about how we stand as a country. Last June, the Netherlands was dismissed from the excessive deficit procedure and now the Netherlands is in the so-called preventive arm. I would have chosen a different name, but that's the way it is. The question is whether this is going well with the Netherlands. In recent years, the necessary measures have been taken in relation to the housing market, the labour market, pensions, social security and care. My group has also thought about this, and its commitment has always been to take responsible decisions that we do not pass on to future generations. We can now say that these measures have had an effect. In 2015, the budget deficit is expected to reach 1.8% and in 2016 it appears to be heading towards 1.2%. Can we just sit back now? Absolutely not when we see that unemployment in the Netherlands is falling slowly. Almost 650,000 people are still out of work. Unemployment in some regions has risen to 18%. The tax review is more urgent than ever; the burden on labour must be reduced. Last year, with the support of the Christian Union, 1 billion was released for this purpose. During the debate on the CPB figures, the cabinet and the coalition parties indicated that this year they wanted to use the space within the balance path to reduce charges. My group is in principle in favour of this, but there must be a plan. Should the cabinet not come up with an overall tax review, will the cabinet be prepared to give priority to reducing labour costs next year? Or can that only happen in a total deal? As far as my group is concerned, the Finance Minister is talking to Brussels about a structural reform clause that we can use to create more budgetary flexibility in the tax review. However, it is important that this is done so that we can take the first reform measures in 2016. Can the Minister indicate how much extra space this clause will provide? The cabinet's starting point is that new policies should be integrated into the existing expenditure framework. The starting point of the Christian Union and a large majority in the Chamber is that there should be no additional cuts in health care and social security. Can I assume that the cabinet is fully committed to the Voordewind motion, in which the government is asked not to make any further cuts? Is that the framework within which the cabinet operates? For the moment, the cabinet is stoic in the belief that this year and next year, 39.4 billion cubic metres of gas will be extracted in the Groningenveld, as we read in the letter to Brussels. This despite the Council of State's statement that gas must no longer be extracted in Loppersum, 3 billion cubic metres, and the clear conclusion that security has been subordinate to economic interests for many years. A letter has been received this morning from Minister Kamp................................................................................................................................................................................................... For the record, that is still too high for the Christian Union. I note, however, that the gas decision, which had so much been chiseled in stone, has burst. It's a perspective. However, the letter to Brussels still includes 39.4 billion cubs for the Groningengas field. Does the decision taken by the Minister for Economic Affairs for Groningen mean that 3 billion more will be won elsewhere in the country? Or do we already know that the budgetary frameworks we are sending to Brussels are not right and that there will be some 1.5 to 2 billion less gas benefits next year? My group believes that the cap on gas extraction should be lowered even further and that we should communicate fairly to Brussels, even now. Is the Minister prepared to do so? I conclude with a concern that I ask for annual attention and therefore again this year: the level of private debt. I don't think I'm the only one. The European Commission points out and DNB points out. The cabinet does not want to tie itself to the goal of reducing private debt. What is the responsibility of the Finance Minister in this respect? Indeed, the high debt and long-term balance sheets of households not only make households vulnerable to shocks, but also affect the position of banks, inhibit spending and make the economy more volatile. Where's the action plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u11	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you threaten to lose sight of the importance of European cooperation. At the same time, countless fires in the world show that relative prosperity on our continent is not self-evident. The European Union has brought us prosperity, stability and peace. Although this Europe is far from the Europe that we have in mind, our Europe is greener, more social and more democratic, GroenLinks does not deny that we need Europe very much. In fact, we embrace Europe. We need the European Union to tackle jointly cross-border problems, to stop climate change and to limit the power of multinationals. I spoke to myself in particular when I was preparing this debate, because I did get a lot of déjà vu's from previous debates we had on this issue. Although I think this debate will be a repeat of events, I think it is important to mention this. In addition to political stability, we also need economic stability. The European Semester contributes to this. That is why I think it is important that we debate this issue with each other today. The more stable economic and monetary community and coordination within the European Union are not yet sufficiently effective. The European Commission has indicated its desire to streamline and strengthen the European Semester. As a point of attention, my group calls for more democratic control. The European Commission sets out the priorities and recommendations, but the European Parliament has no role in this. Does the cabinet share the view that there is a democratic deficit here? If so, what is it going to do about this? My group believes that the National Reform Programme lacks an important point, namely the forthcoming reform of the tax system. I was surprised to hear yesterday's news that Minister Dijsselbloem will present his plans for dealing with the capital efficiency levy on Princess Day. In itself, we think it is a good idea to tackle the capital efficiency levy, but I wonder why this is not mentioned in the present programme. Are there any other plans to be expected with Princess Day that anticipate the revision of the tax system, for example on the heavier taxation of capital? If the Minister or the Cabinet intends to bring forward more measures from the system review and present them with Princess Day, could we get an overview of them? In the tone of the cabinet on its own policy, I note that the programmes presented by both ministers confirm standing policy and hardly respond to the European Commission's analysis. And that while there is still plenty to improve. We are still facing high unemployment and the recovery of the Dutch economy remains fragile. I will deal specifically with a number of points: public finances, the housing market, wage increases, poverty and, of course, tax avoidance. The European Commission has recommended that the Netherlands avoid public expenditure directly relevant to economic growth, such as education, innovation and research. However, it notes that investment in research and innovation in the Netherlands is lagging behind. When it comes to GroenLinks, research and innovation must not only be spared, but we must also provide additional investment if the economy is to attract and there will be more room for manoeuvre. How does the cabinet feel about this? It is also striking that nothing is said about the gas crane. It has to be closed further, and it costs money. Why is there no clarity in this Stability Programme? The government is beating itself up because of the reforms in the housing market. I think this is justified. It is the first time that very big steps have been taken. However, the European Commission notes year after year that the Dutch housing market is not yet functioning properly, despite these changes, and that the government is taking too little further action. The private debt there is the weather in the Netherlands, partly due to the mortgage interest relief far above the European average and therefore also have a disruptive effect: the supply of private rental homes is too low and the supply of social rental homes is too low for the low-income people, who are dependent on the social rental sector. Does the Minister recognize these problems? Can he also explain why no additional measures would be needed to resolve these problems? I come to the subject of poverty. The economic recession has caused many workers in the Netherlands to be on the zero line for years, have had to turn in their wages or have lost their jobs. The economy now seems to be recovering with caution. Nevertheless, the number of children growing up in poverty in the Netherlands remains far too high. My group is concerned about this. The economic conditions in which children grow up determine their chances in their future lives. What measures does the government take to further reduce child poverty? The President of the Netherlands Bank states that we can drive the Dutch economy forward by making room for wage increases. I'd like to get an analysis from the Minister on this analysis of DNB. Is the Cabinet prepared to pursue wage increases for the sectors in which this is already possible? I come to my last topic. In June, Commissioner Šemeta explained the country-specific recommendations that the Netherlands should step up its efforts to tackle tax avoidance by large multinationals through the Netherlands. My group raises this problem with great regularity. What measures is the government going to take to prevent tax avoidance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u12	Mr. Chairman. As Mr Klaver said, it is a bit of a repetition of moves. A month ago, to be exact, on 11 March, we also stood here and talked about the latest CPB figures, which have now been expressed in the Stability Programme. It's a little "old wine in new bags." Now that the economy seems to be recovering, we can take stock of two years of "Rutte/Samsom." Because of the sprint to the 3% that the PvdA was so against, we are now 150,000 unemployed and 26,000 bankruptcies richer. In two years' time, taxes were raised by 13 billion and the economy shrunk quarterly. What is the government going to do in the next two years to repair the damage and restore purchasing power? What will the Cabinet do about the 650,000 unemployed? We don't read back about that. Thanks to the low price of oil, low interest rates, low inflation and the low euro rate, the cabinet is in the wind. That's good. This reduces the deficit from 2.3% this year to 0.7% in 2017. In fact, the IMF expects the deficit to fall to 0.3% in 2017. This is a gift for the cabinet. But what if next year's oil price goes up again to over $100? What if inflation is back to 2%? What if the euro exchange rate normalizes again? What if the interest rate goes up again? What would our economy be like? Why was this not included in the sensitivity analysis in the Stability Programme? I don't read anything about that. Due to low inflation and low oil prices, consumption is finally picking up again: 1.5% to 1.7% in 2016. After years of shrinking, after years in which people have had to turn in, there is again a little bit of purchasing power. But what amazes me is that consumption stops again in 2017. It shall be 0,1% in 2017 and 0,1% in 2018. How is that possible? How can you explain that? Do we, as consumers, get a small plus of 1.5% for two years and then get back to zero? I'd like to get an explanation for this phenomenon. It is also striking that unemployment is barely falling: 650,000 people remain deprived of a job. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs: what has this 1.2 billion in sectoral plans actually produced? 1.2 billion, and I don't see any jobs. Yes, a job for Mrs. Strong, but that's the only job. The Council of State concludes that the Netherlands complies with the budgetary arrangements in the SGP. The structural government balance complies with the medium-term objective. At the same time, the Council of State does not see room for additional spending, while the Minister wanted to use the windfall of nearly 5 billion compared to the start note as a lubricant for the tax reduction. Surely the Minister will not go to Brussels with the hat in hand again to beg for an exception, for a structural reform clause, while France does not care about all the rules and just does what it wants and does what is good for its economy? Why then would the structural balance differ from the MTO? After all, we do not have to comply with the MTO in the preventive arm. The Council of State writes that an improvement in the structural balance towards MTO should be seen. So there's room. That is why I ask the Minister not to act as a good boy in the classroom. I understand that this is difficult if you are president of the eurogroup but simply to be rebellious and do what is right for the Netherlands. Finally, I will deal with the guarantees. This is subject to a "no, unless" policy. The Netherlands guarantees 153 billion for other countries. Three quarters of our total guarantees are for other countries, for problem countries. We guarantee EUR 85 billion for European emergency funds, EUR 47 billion for the IMF, EUR 10 billion for the European Investment Bank and EUR 4 billion for the World Bank. The Netherlands is therefore at the mercy of the whims and willingness of the countries concerned to redeem these guarantees. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to Greece. The chances of us getting the 18 billion back are getting smaller every day. For the PVV, it is therefore incomprehensible that the Netherlands should continue to do so and agree to a European investment fund of 16 billion. In China, our Prime Minister has promised to participate in an Asian investment fund to build the infrastructure in China. It's like China's lack of resources. I thought we had a "no, unless" policy. The Minister will have to explain that. How can the Netherlands guarantee these funds to such a large extent? How much risk and how much guarantee do we take on our shoulders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u13	Madam President. I will start with a quote: "The government deficit of the Netherlands will decline further in the coming years, while the government debt will fall below the agreed limit within Europe. (...) The IMF expects the deficit to fall to 0.5% of gross domestic product (GDP) next year, compared to 1.4% in 2015. A 0.3% budget gap is predicted for 2017 and the two years thereafter." This was a news item from last week, following the publication of the IMF Fiscal Monitor. These remarkably positive figures reminded me of the presentation of the Central Economic Plan of the Central Planning Bureau. Those figures were already moving in the right direction and they surprised us enormously; next year there would be a budget deficit of only 1.2%. We have been used to some good news over the last few months, but I also looked up to this IMF report. The IMF just thinks it could be even more rosy. I do not think we will be able to come up with these figures very quickly, but it is typical of where we are now. They are intermediates and we have seen every quarter that things can be adjusted to the right side. We'll all see. We are not in the realm. Princess Day is only in five months' time, so we will carefully await the two estimates of the Central Planning Bureau that will follow in June and August. One thing is clear by now: not only when you look outside today, but also when you look at the economy, it is sunnier. The economy is growing again, exports are increasing, people are spending more money and, for the first time since 2009, collective spending is declining as a percentage of GDP. These results didn't come up. For the VVD, these results are mainly due to the commitment of all Dutch, all entrepreneurs and employees, of whom we were forced to ask a great deal during the crisis. It is therefore a good thing that for many of these people there is a gradual rise in light at the end of the tunnel of the economic crisis. At the same time, the current situation does not mean that we do not have to do anything anymore. Both the Stability Programme and the Council of State letter address the sustainability of public finances. This has been dramatically improved: from a sustainability deficit of 4.5% five years ago to a sustainability surplus of 0.4% at the moment. For the future, however, it remains very important that we continue to work to control healthcare expenditure, for example. That is not a gloomy story at all, because in the scenario outlined, healthcare expenditure can simply grow with demographic development and prosperity. However, we must remain vigilant that the increase does not exceed it, because the lesson from recent years is that the Netherlands will not be able to sustain it financially. In addition, the Stability Programme deals with the 2016 budget. As far as the VVD is concerned, it still requires tight control, this time not because of the need to reduce the deficit, as in previous years, but to create room for tax cuts and money for security and defence. In order to be able to absorb both these wishes in the budget, it is always wise to go through the dust comb and see if there are any windfalls, even if it is only to catch some setbacks that you can see coming, such as the gas benefits and the exchange rate. Previously, the cabinet indicated that there would be room for manoeuvre if the deficit was at the level of the Start note next year. The CPB is now much lower: 1.9% versus 1.2%. In doing so, the Council of State rightly warns against narrow margins and in line with European rules on the structural balance. That too is a fair message, as the cabinet itself states in its response, but not so gloomy. Yesterday, the cabinet clarified this well in the answers, referring to the structural reform clause of the Pact. A smarter and less complex tax system, which is therefore less susceptible to fraud, with lower taxes on work and enterprise and a net tax reduction, will very well comply with that clause. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u14	There is an interruption by Mrs Bruins Slot, but if you are almost finished, I would suggest to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u15	Well, I have a whole paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u16	Okay. Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u17	I see Mr Harbers on two legs. He wants to be sunny, but he still sees it dark on a number of points. He's shaking and weighing a little. Let us look at the revision of the tax system. When does Mr Harbers expect the first plan to be? What's the deadline he set himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u18	That's the deadline we had last year with Princess Day in the Chamber: if we meet again this year on Princess Day, we need to have a look at what's happening from 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u19	Mrs. Bruins Slot, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u20	In this tax review, the CDA, of course, likes to see the middle income getting support. They're having a hard time right now. But the question is whether the VVD will support the CDA in this. Who is Mr Harbers going to stand up for in this tax system? Is he just going to move money back and forth or is he really going to make certain groups in society progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u21	If it's the VVD's fault, there's a lot more groups going forward than just middle incomes. The VVD is very clear in this. The VVD wants a new tax system that makes working and entrepreneurship more attractive. That's good for the economy. That system must be less complex at the same time. That is good, because it will be less susceptible to fraud and also less complex for the Tax Administration. To make that possible, we will have to do two things. We will have to consider whether we should replace one taxation with another, so that we work on the goals I just outlined. Since that will never happen without people in society going backwards on the left and right, at the same time we will have to introduce a substantial tax reduction. Finally, the message to everyone is that you may lose a deduction or suffer from a different rate of taxation, but because there is a tax cut next to it, everyone in the end is making progress, and workers the most.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u22	I agree with these last words by Mr Harbers. He rightly refers to the narrow margins mentioned by the Council of State in his comments. We can increase the budget deficit in order to finance a tax review, but this can only be done under European rules if there is real reform, if there is real structural improvement. Does Mr Harbers agree with me that we cannot therefore reduce tax rates a little and say that we have implemented a tax reform with this? Does he agree with me that there really needs to be reform to ensure that jobs are created, and that there should not be a small, undressed tax revision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u23	I know where Mr Koolmees is going with this: to the frame he himself put down that nothing is happening at all. For a VVD'er, any tax reduction is ultimately attractive. In reply to Mrs Bruins Slot for a reason, I indicated in my own text what my ultimate goal is for a tax review. It must really be a revision of the tax system along the lines I have just outlined. In any case, next year's deficit should not exceed the starting note. I also think that disappointments are no reason to make up for the deficit. That is why, I think, the cabinet maintains the spending frameworks. We are now talking about only one intermediate position; we have been standing here more often at the end of April. There will be two more estimates. The tax side is added, just like the purchasing power picture in August. Anything can happen. This year, of course, it is up to the Cabinet to keep an eye on all sides: the structural balance, the budget deficit and structural reforms. That's a little bit of puzzles for five months.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u24	Mr Harbers is taking this off a little too easily. I believe that the government is now deciding on the expenditure side of next year's budget. In other words, how much money will there be on the expenditure side of the budget to find that oil for the tax review? However, let me summarize it constructively and positively. I hear Mr Harbers say that as far as the VVD is concerned, there really needs to be an ambitious tax review, not a bit of a shift with tariffs, but really a big reform of the system to ensure that work is paid and more jobs are created in the Netherlands. Is that the right summary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u25	No, because in the future, I don't want to get into all kinds of possible words games. If I say yes now, we will meet again about what "large" means. I do not think it matters if the tax review does what it has to do, namely to make work and business more attractive. If we can do that with a few surgeries, we'll do it with a few surgeries. If we can only do that with a lot of interventions, then we will do it with a lot of interventions. I am not concerned with the number of measures, but with the impact on the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u26	In the latter, however, I can still see room for reducing the burden on labour, even if there is not a great deal of reform. The groups of Mr Harbers and Mr Nijboer have a majority in this Chamber. On the other hand, this is becoming more complicated; I think we can be quite open about that. There must therefore be broad support for tax reform, especially if it is a major tax reform. Then I would like to ask a question mirrored by Mr Koolmees. What is the first priority for the VVD Group? Is it about the reform being implemented and the bribes being used for it, or should the burden on labour first be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u27	That's a hypothetical question right now. I set two priorities in general. On the expenditure side, we want money for security and defense. On the revenue side, we want tax cuts. I think we've already agreed on two things here in the house. Firstly, there must be great support, even if only because a tax system has to last for 20 years or more. Secondly, if you have found money for a tax cut, it is good to use it as best you can to make that move happen. How this can be done is also dependent on space and on what will emerge in the coming months. So you can't answer that question in the end until it's Prince's Day. But I always like tax cuts as a VVD guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u28	I understand that, but I still want it to be more precise. I have heard Secretary of State Wiebes of Finance clearly say that he needs that money in order to be able to carry out the reform. At the VVD I still have room to relieve the burden on labour, even if this is not the case with a very large reform. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u29	No, this too is too absolute. I've already indicated twice what the VVD has been saying since Princess' Day last year. We want a tax reform aimed at making work and business more attractive. So if there is room for tax cuts, you have to do both at the same time. In the past, we've done things differently. In the 2015 budget, we have also released money for tax cuts, including towards workers through the labour cut. If you have such a sum of money again, you are very wise to let it go together, if you also have good ideas about how that fits in with the system review. That's my great preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u30	We are all in favour of tax reform, but probably all in favour of other tax reforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u31	I certainly hope we want something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u32	Mr Harbers likes to quote the Council of State and the European Commission. He says it should be, because then we still comply with the rules of the MTO. But it's about next year. Is he actually saying that tax reform should start next year? When does he call something a tax reform? I have just heard him say to Mr Koolmees that it is also enough to adjust a few rates. Is that a tax reform?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u33	A tax reform for me consists of a plan on how you're going to change the tax system. That plan has to be ready. Given its nature, such a system review will never be possible in a year. After all, you will undoubtedly encounter things that you need for a year or more, if only because you do not want steam to come out of the Tax Office's computers again. I think it is a good idea to keep the tax reduction you need in parallel with the years in which you are introducing such a measure, if only because of the answer I have just given to a question from Mrs Bruins Slot, I believe. To those who may be affected by a measure, I want to be able to say at the same time: this does not matter, because there is a tax cut against which you end up with a net plus in your wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u34	Finally, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u35	But the question was whether it would start next year. Now I hear Mr Harbers saying that there must be a plan. If you can do everything by 2017, so can you, as I understand. So if there is only one plan, you can always meet that condition, according to Mr Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u36	No, this is a game of words. I have already indicated at the beginning of this Interruption Round that we agreed on Princess Day 2014 that we would like to meet again on Princess Day 2015 and then get a detailed vision from the Cabinet on the revision of the tax system. That's what I call more than a plan. Then you know what you're going to do over the next few years, and then you can put it next to it, at what point you can enter it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u37	Mr Harbers says all kinds of sensible words, I think. He says you have to make work and business more attractive. In his letter, Secretary of State Wiebes writes that the cabinet's ambition is to create 100,000 jobs. EUR 3 to 5 billion is the lubricating oil to achieve this ambition, and there is a shift in costs of around EUR 10 billion. I want to make this whole thing complete, and that's why I'm gonna take out a block. In De Telegraaf of 25 March it was reported that the Labour Party wants a higher real estate tax on merchant houses. This is more a burden on the decentralised area, i.e. the municipalities, the local authorities. I think the VVD is a little reluctant about that, but that's in the letter. So I wonder whether Mr Harbers is now in favour of such an increase in the decentralised tax area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u38	In the cabinet's view last year on Princess Day, one of the eight action points will be explored to see if the local tax area can be enlarged. Fortunately, there is a sensible sense in this, namely that this should not lead to income policy and that it should also be carefully considered in what way this is spread over the residents. In my view, the way in which Mr Koolmees is putting it now, namely additional taxation on merchant houses, does not comply with that rule. So I am not in favour of that. I welcome the fact that there is an investigation into whether you can do more with the local tax area and whether this does justice to the fact that many additional tasks have been transferred from the Empire to the municipalities in recent years. I'd like to see the results of that investigation in due course before I'm presumptuous of what I like and what I don't like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u39	I think that's good news. D66 also thinks a shift is a good idea for a stronger democracy, for greater freedom of choice for the municipalities and for more robustness. I therefore interpret this as a kind of opening of Mr Harbers to give serious thought to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u40	Mr Koolmees himself says that he thinks it is a good idea. In doing so, he assumes that I think it is a good idea in advance. But I'm not ready yet. I just want to see what the cabinet comes back with and where this leads. I am open to that, as I indicated last year, that this investigation is now taking place. Then we can also answer the questions for more tax areas that often come from municipalities. Once again, I want to see results before I make any judgment on this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u41	I'm starting to get a little annoyed. The Netherlands simply craves tax cuts. Your cabinet, with the VVD first, has raised taxes by 13 billion in the last two years. It's bothering people. The consumer demand has disappeared. Now you have a five-billion-dollar windfall in your wallet, and now you're going to do research and talk about a review of the tax system. It's gonna take years. I'll let you negotiate and talk about bed, bath and bread. I'll let you do that for three years, but are you prepared to use Prince's Day at least that 5 billion-dollar lubrication oil, for example, to lower the first disc? Then it'll benefit everyone. Then we will at least stimulate purchasing power and the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u42	I want a tax review that does two things: that makes working and doing business more attractive and that is also less sensitive to fraud and less complex. You can just lower a disk. That's gonna work in the short term, but I'd rather have the other effect. Meanwhile, Mr Van Dijck gives a huge caricature here. He speaks on behalf of one of the few groups in this Chamber who have said from the outset that they do not want to talk about a new tax review. I am delighted that a lot of other people in this Chamber would like to talk about this, but do not blame us for having a conversation with all of us about how it can be much smarter in the future. On Prince's Day, you can only answer the question if that 5 billion is really available and what you do with it. If you have that, you have to use it as wisely as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u43	I am afraid that the 5 billion is there and that we are going to talk about tax reform for two years and leave that 5 billion on the shelf all along. The PVV says: you don't have to talk, you just have to lower the tax, in the first disc and in the VAT. That's what the people in their wallet notice, and that's how you stimulate the economy. That you and passerby are going to talk about fees and you name it, I believe all that, but what we need now is tax relief and you can take care of that with Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u44	If you can do both things: tax cuts and, at the same time, smarter decorating the whole system, in my view, you are doing just a little bit smarter than Mr Van Dijck and the PVV who are simply opting for a rugged measure, while perhaps it can be a lot smarter, with a much better impact on the economy, with more jobs and more economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u45	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u46	Oh, sorry, I wasn't finished at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u47	I was glad you said thank you. I think you have 59 seconds left, but you don't have to talk it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u48	I still have a heart cry. We must, of course, also challenge ourselves to achieve more growth. Additional growth is, of course, available at European level, i.e. if the European Commission is really serious about the mantra: jobs and growth. A Commission that believes this is drawing up an ambitious agenda for completing the internal market. It is working urgently on a good trade agreement with the United States, so that free trade from Helsinki to Hawaii is possible, without letting the scares that go left and right become reality, and will communicate well. Such a Commission clearly chooses for the many Member States which put their budgets in order and made their economies more competitive and thus not to compete as in France. The Netherlands and Europe have everything to be at the top. We don't have to be mediocre.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u49	Mr. Chairman. It is time again for the so-called note to Brussels. I am referring, of course, to the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme. This is all part of the European Semester, which, according to the new European Commission, needs to be streamlined and strengthened. Does the Minister have any idea what that means exactly? What is meant by the Commission's intention to improve coordination by placing a strong emphasis on the country-specific recommendations? Is there an undertone in this that the European Commission wants to impose more and more on them, or do I only read that in it? It seems that these country-specific recommendations are becoming less and less non-binding. And then the question is: when is recommended orders? If it is only advice, they are of course welcome. There are opinions on the remaining consumption, which is a problem in the Netherlands. I've talked about the remaining consumption before, but there's something else going on with that. Compared to other countries, consumption fluctuates much more here. This is also bad for prosperity, as a recent report by the Central Planning Bureau showed. Does the Minister recognize this problem? It also creates a lot of uncertainty. The Central Planning Office will also come forward with statements. It points, among other things, to house prices. For example, the mortgage interest rate deduction has caused far too high mortgage debt here. What is the willingness of the cabinet to take further steps in the area of mortgage interest relief? Is it true there's no taboo on this? After all, was there not a motion from my hand that says that it is undesirable to have taboos when discussing a revision of the tax system? The Central Planning Bureau mentioned another reason why consumption is so volatile, why it fluctuates so much, namely that a large proportion of Dutch households have little savings compared to their income. For households without a lot of savings, it is difficult to spread windfalls in income over time. This also results in a more volatile consumption pattern. According to research conducted by the European Central Bank, 33.1% of Dutch people can put money aside. That percentage is really much lower than the European average and certainly much lower than in Germany. There the percentage is 53.1, a difference of no less than 20 percentage points. How does the Minister explain this? How does the Minister explain that two out of three Dutch people cannot put money aside and that the percentage is significantly lower than in the countries around us? Is the cabinet prepared to carry out thorough research into how policy affects consumption? The CPB also calls for more research in this field. Should the impact of new policies on consumer spending not be taken much more seriously? Of course, it does not help that power inequality has again increased considerably. Last week we could read that the share of the richest 10% in terms of wealth has increased from 56% to 66% in four years' time. That's by far the highest level ever. On the other hand, this very large group of people who have no buffer and cannot take any blows. A large group of people are worried about his debt problems. Like Mrs Schouten, I am very concerned about this. I've mentioned that here before. I'm curious about the cabinet's plans. A lot of people are also worried about paying their rent. Can they still afford it? Will they still get the care they need? It would be good if the Council of State were to deal more with these matters, rather than with the new role it has been given, as another body to monitor whether we are complying with European budgetary rules. We do not need a Donner who, as a sort of out-of-the-box accountant, discourages burden relief and advises policy on the right. If the level and fluctuation of consumer spending are such worry children in the Netherlands, would it be wise to raise the VAT on everyday shopping? What is the point of saying to people: everything you pay less in the near future to income tax, you pay back twice and across the street through the prices in the shop; but you keep buying, even though you have no buffer and can't put anything aside? Does not the increase in the low VAT rate particularly affect the lowest incomes? Can the Minister say anything about that? Mrs Bruins Slot noted that up to the middle of this year there is a 6% rate for sustainability and for renovation and repair work. I wonder what the cabinet will do with that. That brings me to my final question: can the cabinet, can these ministers promise me that the low VAT rate will not be compromised?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u50	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is improving economically. The number of houses sold is increasing, construction is attracting, the temporary agency industry is one of the first indicators to indicate how the economy is going..... is growing by more than 10% on an annual basis, purchasing power is increasing, exports are increasing and the confidence of both consumers and producers is increasing. That is reflected in the budget and the deficit. That was different before. Mr Koolmees referred to this for a while. The Council of State concludes that the Netherlands adheres to the European agreements; in fact, the Netherlands performs even better than expected. That doesn't change the fact that there's still a lot to do. The PvdA would like the cabinet to put the year 2016 on the mark of work and income for everyone. This can be done in three ways: in the context of the General Financial Reviews, I have already drawn attention to this by raising wages, stimulating investment and creating a tax system that is more focused on jobs and jobs. I'll start with the higher wages. The economic forecasts of both the CPB and other institutes show that there is room for companies to increase wages. An ING spokesperson said the same this week. The employer's foreman in the Netherlands also felt that economic growth would be even higher than the computer people at the CPB had anticipated, he said. I'm gonna call again to raise wages. This should be done in sectors for which this is possible, as this helps SMEs. SMEs are doing better, but in some sectors they are even less affected. Raising wages helps to stimulate the economy and help the country get on top of it. That is also possible, as I said in the General Financial Reviews, because the government supplies butter to the fish. There's money. As of January 1st of this year, more than 500 million are available for the salaries of police officers, teachers, civil servants, the people who work hard for the public cause. The PvdA asks the cabinet to actually use the available money. That's 500 million for this year, over a billion for next year and over 1.5 billion for 2017. Together, this represents more than EUR 3 billion. That money must really end up on the pay slips of teachers, teachers, police officers, the people who are committed to the public cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u51	This is a clear and good speech by Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u53	A motion by my colleague, Mr Van Weyenberg, was adopted today, with the support of the Labour Party, for which I am grateful. In that motion, the Chamber stated that the pension premium should be returned to the employees of the public sector, i.e. to officials, to teachers, to teachers. That does not even require a collective agreement. Does Mr Nijboer agree with D66 that this money can go quickly to the officials, teachers and teachers and that it can be in their bank accounts before the summer, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u54	Yes. We supported the motion and I am in favour of it being implemented as soon as possible. My whole speech is aimed at stimulating economic recovery. Unemployment is still my main concern, and I think this applies to the whole Chamber. We have means to stimulate recovery. We have a budget for salaries and there is also room in the pay area for pension contributions, which we have lost. This can be used not only in the public sector but also in the market sector for purchasing power. This ultimately leads to more jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u55	Excellent. Then we ask the cabinet through Mr Nijboer to implement this and get it done quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u56	The motion has been supported today, so that is a clear signal. Actually, it's not even a signal, it's more of a mission to the government. My second point concerns the promotion of investment. Investment in the Netherlands is increasing. We can see that in the CPB figures. At the same time, there is still a huge credit demand from entrepreneurs who have plans, but who have difficulty getting credit. A whole arsenal of instruments has been deployed by the cabinet. These instruments are increasingly being used better and better. Last week it was announced that insurers and pension funds will invest between 1 and 2 billion in SMEs. That is a good thing. The national institute to promote investment is taking more direction. At the same time, the PvdA Group still sees that pension funds invest relatively little in the Netherlands, while they still have a large amount of money. That is the imbalance in the Dutch system which the European Commission points out: there are a lot of savings surpluses that are not used for the Dutch economy. It would be a good idea to speed up this process and achieve more results. We've been talking about this for years. What does the government intend to do to ensure that these pension funds also invest in the Netherlands? It is larger money than the guarantee schemes for SMEs, the investment that insurers are currently making. The third point to come to work and income for all: the tax system. The PvdA has three guiding principles: justice, work and income, and sustainability. We will examine the proposals of the cabinet in the light of these principles. For the sake of clarity, we are in favour of using the space within the European rules, the billions that can be released, to achieve this reform, to improve it, to create a simpler tax system that mainly leads to more work and income. That must be achieved for everyone. I believe that there is already a broad majority in the Chamber for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u57	Mr. Chairman. You just summoned me to do it quickly and quickly. I'll certainly try. That's why I'm skipping the introduction. "We're in good shape, and we're getting better." That was the introduction. Of course, we still have many ambitions, I say to Mr Koolmees. He always has a funny story, in the line of "there's so little happening" and "go do something," while the Netherlands gets mad about the reforms that are being rolled out across the country. Anyway, that's my perception. Apparently, his is a different one. Nevertheless, I commend and praise D66, because all the reforms and ambitions of this cabinet, which Mr Koolmees denies, can only be achieved thanks to D66. Apparently, Mr Koolmees denies his own legacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u58	This is baiting! I congratulated the cabinet in detail on all the good reforms that have been carried out in recent years, indeed encouraged by D66. I just said that the cabinet has two years left and that it should not let those two years run away from internal quarrels, but should use them to ensure that this tax review is carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u59	Thank you in advance for the support of D66 for the next two years. It's on the record. We are certainly going to use it well! I'll come back to the tax review later. I will be brief because this is an announced plan which is not included in this reform or stability programme. I would like to begin with a few comments from Mr Merkies. He raised a number of issues which are very important for how we got through the crisis and how we are now. He put the finger on the fact that our consumption fluctuates strongly in the Netherlands and fell sharply during the crisis. He's been wondering why. He himself implicitly gave the statement. In part, this has to do with our mortgage debt. Households have long balance sheets with large debts. If the housing market, which was quite pumped up, makes a blow backwards, it removes a large part of people's purchasing power. People are simply going to try to pay off their mortgages. There are still nearly 1 million households with underwater mortgages. The second structural problem in the Dutch economy has not been solved overnight either. It concerns the fact that many have little savings, as Mr Merkies pointed out. At the same time, Dutch people have saved a lot in their pension, but there too the money is locked. This is also reflected in a crisis. When a large part of your wealth is in a savings box for your pension and when you can't access it when you get into economic weather, you can't compensate from that savings box. You can't take some of your burdens out of that money. So there is little "free" savings; that is the exact wording. We have not yet tackled this issue either. This brings me back to Mr Koolmees' question: what does the cabinet intend to do in the next two years? I would like to mention three topics. The first issue is the tax review. I have also seen today that there is a great deal of support for this in advance along the lines of simplification, the tax burden on labour, i.e. employment, and the promotion of entrepreneurship. The second major issue that we are taking on and which we are also working on is the future of the pension system. Then you also come to talk about the general distribution and the pension premium, the average premium. Then you also come to the question of how much money people are obliged to put in that savings box under lock and key. There are all kinds of dilemmas in that discussion, but this is precisely the point that Mr Merkies addressed. We experience structural problems in the way our economy and our capabilities are built up. This is not only about the distribution of assets, but also about the availability of assets, the build-up of assets, the course of life and such things. The third theme is the complex question of the position ofzzp'ers. You have to look at their pensions, social security and protection as well as the tax burden. Those are three major themes that will be cut in the Cabinet anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u60	My follow-up question is what the cabinet is doing with this. I don't know if the Minister is going to go into that, but if you find that consumption is so fluctuating and lagging behind, and you find those reasons, then you also say: okay, apparently we all caused this ourselves; this is because of our system; how can we change that? One of the cases was the mortgages, the mortgage market. We get the European Commission's opinion time and time again: do something about it. Then the cabinet will only look at what it has done in recent years. So the question is, is it going to do something with that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u61	Mr Merkies seems to think that we have done nothing about the housing market. I have a very different experience of that. We are working on a fundamental austerity and adjustment of the mortgage interest rate deduction, which will be rolled out in the coming years. Much of this reform has yet to take place, but it has been launched. We have reduced the loan to value ratio. We have further reduced mortgage standards because of the risks for lower-income families. I don't know if the SP was before that. We have taken many measures in the way in which we have set up our housing market and mortgage policy. There are all kinds of risks for households, which have led them to put themselves heavily into debt. This turned out to be very risky once prices went down. On all these fronts we are adapting things. It's very gradual. We reduce the loan to value ratio one percentage point per year, so we are still working on that. The adjustment of the mortgage interest rate deduction is very gradual. It takes us years. If Mr Merkies says that we need to do so much more quickly, the cabinet says: no, we are doing this at this rate and so carefully because the housing market also needs to recover. If you do it too fast, many more people with their mortgage will soon be flooded. We are taking measures that are forward-looking, which stabilise the problem and remove those risks for the future. But doing things even faster does not seem to us to be responsible for restoring the housing market. This is also very much in the interest of the nearly million underwater mortgaged households. Mr Merkies must also be aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u62	Yeah, I do. You do need a certain phaser in that, but I'm not the only one who says this. The European Commission says this, knowing that these measures have already been taken. Then you can say: the loan to value goes down, eventually to 100%. This may be very low in the Netherlands, but it is still very high in the international context. All the measures that have been taken seem to be insufficient to restore a normal market, where we have low mortgage debts again, which are much healthier and have less impact on the enormous fluctuating consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u63	The problem is simply that we are dealing with problems from the past. It's gonna take time to get rid of that. It's gonna take a really long time to bring all those residual debts and all those mortgages under water back to a balanced and responsible level. At the same time, we are trying to prevent a repetition of this kind of problem for a new generation of homeowners. In that balance, we have chosen a certain pace. That's what the cabinet put in place for this period. We want to provide certainty about this, so that there is no new uncertainty in the housing market. This is how we are going to do it, at this rate, steadily moving towards far less risks in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u64	The Minister is right to point out that there are two major problems: the high household debt and the fact that we do save but that this is stuck in pensions. That's why a proposal has been made from this Chamber almost a year ago to combine these things and see if you can use part of your pension to pay off your own house debt. The Minister recognizes the problem, but the cabinet has been going on for a year now and it is not getting anywhere. Does the Minister think that this should be speeded up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u65	Mrs Schouten suggests that we have a simple issue here. Then I'd like to have a simple solution from her. For example, we have seen a proposal from the RMU, which the Christian Union and the SGP have drawn attention to. We have turned that inside out to see if it could happen within the current system and whatever legal hooks and eyes you encounter. That is extremely complex. That is why I fear that a truly fundamental approach to this can only be achieved if you address and change the pension system and the way in which our premium has been built up and created. This has been the subject of an ESC opinion and we are now working on it. I commend Mrs Schouten's impatience, but it's complex. It requires great care, because it is a matter of great interest to people, namely the pension system. We will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u66	I know it's complex. We have all broken our minds about this in the Chamber. But what is the government's ambition in this respect? Can the Minister tell us when he is going to have these plans in the Chamber? The debate on the revision of the pension system has been going on for so long. What is this minister's ambition to shape pensions in such a way that people not only build up enough, but also get more flexibility in spending?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u67	I don't know what the exact timeline is. I know that Secretary of State Klijnsma is working on proposals on the basis of the dialogue and the ESC opinion. If Mrs Schouten wants to know from me when Secretary of State Klijnsma will bring her letters, I will check and I can say that in the second term. However, I think Mrs Schouten knows very well, because she is a spokesperson in this area. So she's asking a little about the familiar road.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u68	Let me be clear: I know what has been agreed, but I want to know what this minister's ambition is. What should the pace be for him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u69	I have no private opinion of that. We have a cabinet view on this and we are working on proposals. I note that the Christian Union is very much in line with these proposals and believes that there should be more room for individual choices and possibly a fairer build-up of the premium in this respect. Those are the two main themes that we will address. Before I come to the revenue side, I would like to make a few comments on the expenditure side. Yeah, I'm actually doing the rounds around the departments. We always do that this time of year. This year, it is a major task to remain under the expenditure framework. This has to do with the problem of terms of trade. I have heard that there is a need for expenditure. There are some motions from the Chamber that may lead to additional expenditure. I would also like to say to Mrs Bruins Slot that any additional expenditure should be included in the expenditure framework. We are now working on this task. This also applies to the funds we have already made available. Coverage is not yet available, but funds should be made available for counter-terrorism, security, AIVD, etc. The Chamber had a letter about that. This brings me to space on the revenue side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u70	Then I have a question about the expenditure side of the budget. Perhaps Minister Kamp will answer the questions about gas, but I also have two questions for the Minister of Finance. In the answers yesterday, the Minister wrote that the spending frameworks are maintained. In the case of gas, it does not fall within the expenditure framework. Does this mean that there can be a setback under the budgetary rules? According to the CPB figures, the figures we have are an overrun of the expenditure framework of EUR 800 million. That is from the CEP and that is the only figure the Chamber has. Is the conclusion therefore justified that 800 million needs to be cut in order to maintain the expenditure framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u71	I don't have the complete picture yet. Mr Koolmees said that I was a long way away with my round and asked what the picture was. However, it seems to me more careful to map it completely. There will be a substantial overrun of the expenditure framework. It has to do with the trade-foot problem. We must ensure that the departments remain within their borders. That is what we are doing along the appropriate lines, that is to say, no room for new policies, windfalls on the big table and looking at underexhaustment and margins of caution that may no longer be necessary at the moment. Indeed, for gas, this does not fall within the framework. That's separate. If we have any setbacks in that, they'll be in the balance. That therefore depends on the balance that we would, of course, prefer to use for relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u72	If gas revenues are disappointing, then there is simply less room for a tax review. I find the first point striking. We have had a whole campaign on whether there would still be room in public spending to reserve for the tax review. I have also said a number of words about this in previous debates. At that time, the Minister was quite sure; the Labour Party was even indignant: it absolutely cannot do that. And now, in a sense, at least according to the Central Planning Bureau, there are just 800 million cuts to keep to the spending frameworks and thus to free up money for the tax review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u73	No, it's nice try from Mr Koolmees, but it's not like that. Frameworks must simply be respected and so we will see what space there is in the departments. What D66 advocated in the campaign, although the campaign gradually declined, was that there was a need for additional savings on care and social security to make room for additional burden relief. We have said: go keep the departments to the frameworks; that is a firm policy, that is the budgetary rules, that is what we do every year. Mr Koolmees knows that like no other. Additional cuts were the D66 argument. We are not in favour of opening up any more room for load relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u74	Mr Koolmees, I was afraid you might want to interrupt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u75	Mr President, I am very glad that you are so generous. This is a little bit of magic with numbers. In fact, the campaign has often said that we have a windfall of EUR 4.5 billion, but there are also all kinds of demands for defence, for security and perhaps we are faced with runaway gas. This is all due to the money we have as a windfall for the tax review. Now there is a setback on the expenditure side, and 800 million has to be cut. In fact, the Minister himself says that if additional money had to go to Defence or Security, it would have to be included in the expenditure framework. For that, the cabinet has to cut back. On the left or right, there are cuts to free up money for a tax review. Then you can dive into the technique very nicely, but this is at the heart of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u76	This is not at all at the heart of this debate. Mr Koolmees, who has a career in this field, knows better too. Maintaining spending frameworks is not a cut at all. I'm just saying to the departments that they have to stay within their framework. There are no additional cuts for this. That is quite different from what D66 advocated and what the Labour Party opposed, namely that additional savings should be made in order to allow for additional relief. We stick to the spending frameworks. On the revenue side we also stick to the frameworks. So it's all standard work. Mr Koolmees now has that as a cut, but first of all he does not know at all how to solve it and secondly it is not a cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u77	The Minister mustn't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u78	This calls for further clarification of what the Minister said earlier. Just out of my mind, we have an excess of 800 million in 2016: 2.6 billion comes from the departments, 300 million comes from social security and 2.1 billion is in the minus for care. The Minister says quite quickly: that is a problem of exchange rates. It calls for further justification as to why the Minister directly links the 2.1 billion from the departments to the exchange rate problem. Is it that huge right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u79	Yes, the trade-foot problem is very big. The CPB knows a lot, but there is always a subject on which Finance knows just more than the Central Planning Office, namely the real financial situation in the departments. That also makes sense, because the CPB won't be making rounds around the departments in May, and I will. Then I'll see where there's room, where there's windfalls and where there's still fat on the bones. Then we look at whether there is still a pressing problem under the framework. I don't have the final score yet. So the CPB knows only indicatively that something is going on. Yeah, there's a trading foot problem; yeah, it's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u80	What makes this trade-foot problem so big right now? What are the underlying factors that the Minister expects to continue in 2017 and 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u81	It is a structural problem anyway, but that does not mean that it will occur again next year. The situation may even be different later in the year than it is now. It now has to do with differences in price developments in government and in a broad sense. Interest rates are low, energy prices are low and inflation is low. In general terms, price developments are extremely limited. The expenditure frameworks are only being increased slightly. However, some government expenditure items, such as salaries, are rising faster. This is the pinching expenditure framework. It is a standard budget rule on which the cabinet has not had to take a separate decision. It is in the budgetary rules that the departments adhere to the frameworks. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked if the Minister can confirm that revenue falls are not used for additional expenses. I can confirm this. Mr Koolmees, Mrs Schouten and Mr Klaver have asked how much money is available for relief. They have asked whether burden relief can be applied independently or only as part of a system review. Mr Klaver asked about the plans for box 3, the capital efficiency levy. Mr Merkies added a question about the VAT rate. The cabinet has indicated that it wants to seek room for burden relief as a lubricating oil for the system review. The main advantage of this is that the system review can further increase the leverage factor, reducing the tax burden on labour. If you use the net relief for this, you can create a greater impact on the economy and on employment. It is important to link the scope for relief to a system review and to include targeted measures there. We'll come up with this. I believe that the wording in the letter from the Secretary of State was:... with proposals in the run-up to the 2016 budget. This situation is unchanged. So we are just on schedule for that. In August, when we look at purchasing power and burdens as always, we will assess how much reduction is possible. The reform clause has been asked for. The European Commission has clarified and defined the flexibility contained in the Growth and Stability Pact, with which there is flexibility, but this aside. One of the things that the Commission has pointed out is, when a country is genuinely committed to structural reforms, it also translates into improving sustainability. A country may then take more time on the preventive side of the Pact to move towards budgetary balance. If we decide in August that we are going to carry out a tax review and use part of the balance in the form of net relief, then we must show Brussels that this is a structural reform that contributes to a stronger economy and to a better long-term sustainability of public finances. If we do so, we will also formally call on the reform clause. Mr Koolmees asked if he could see the passage that is still being included in the Stability Programme. He'll be getting these in a letter. It is really the last paragraph in the answer to question eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u82	Of course, the CDA spelled out that last paragraph. Does the Minister keep it open with the wording he chooses whether he's going to come up with a real tax review or whether it's going to be a cosmetic operation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u83	I don't understand the question. Why would Mrs. Bruins Slot think that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u84	We know all the sensitivities surrounding this subject, but I will explain it further. The Minister writes that the announced tax review, depending on the design, will be able to meet the requirements of the clause. The clause is then called the structural reform clause. We can also conclude, if the cabinet describes this in such a way, that we will eventually not get a real reform, but a cosmetic operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u85	Mrs Bruins Slot doesn't have to worry about that. If it had been said that the tax review would meet the requirements of the clause, Mrs Bruins Slot could now ask me how I know and whether she can see the proposals. I believe that this is why this cautious wording has been chosen. These proposals are not yet available, certainly not in final form. Of course, we will come up with a substantial reform of the tax system. That's what this whole operation is about. We will only use this clause if we can show it. That's what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u86	The minister says if we can show it to him. But with every structural tax review operation, you have to be able to show that people end up getting lighter burdens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u87	I don't know if that's enough right now, because then you can just pour the net load relief into the old system. I don't know if that's a convincing story you can keep that's a review. We want a reform of the tax system which further supports the economy, which reduces the burden on labour and encourages entrepreneurship. In fact, we will also use the space that we want to provide for the reduction of charges in this context. Mrs Bruins Slot does not have to worry about it: it will be a structural reform. That's what we're preparing. Mrs Schouten asked what the maximum deviation for the structural balance could be used under the structural reform clause. That clause offers the opportunity to get more room in the preventive arm. The maximum deviation concerns 0.5% of GDP. Mr Van Dijck asked about the variations in uncertainty and said: now interest rates and oil prices are low, but why hasn't there been a scenario where they all go up? There are many uncertainties, which Mr Van Dijck also mentions, but which run for an open economy, which is the Netherlands, almost always through world trade. The scenario we have outlined is a deterioration in world trade and its impact on the economy, the balance and so on. It's a choice we made. There are always choices to make which types of risks are included in what scenario, but some of the risks mentioned by Mr Van Dijck are in our world trade scenario.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u88	Indeed, I saw that sensitivity analysis has taken place: what happens if world trade falls by 0.1%? However, we all know that the entire ECB policy is aimed at raising inflation. It also aims to ensure that interest rates are very low. If the ECB were not there and the Netherlands had a normal interest rate, a normal rate of our currency and a normal inflation rate and the money press would not have been turned on, as the ECB is doing now, then we would have a more normal situation. We can say that we depend on world trade, but China and America are world trade. It is precisely the ECB that determines that interest rates are so low and tries to raise inflation by all means.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u89	If we had no ECB, we would have another central bank, possibly the Netherlands Bank, which had taken measures to combat the threat of deflation. He would probably do that in close cooperation with the German central bank, as he used to do. Well, what do you want with this consideration? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u90	The point is that all these external factors are not based on world trade, but artificially based on Europe. If you do a sensitivity analysis in which you put the oil price back to 100 dollars and put the euro rate and interest rate back to normal, then you get a completely different picture of the Dutch economy? Now it is an artificially created image of the Dutch economy, inspired by measures taken by the ECB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u91	To name but one, the euro is now low. The reason why the euro was still relatively high was the central bank's policy in the United States. Do you have to think it away by pretending to have a normal policy there? That all seems a bit hypothetical to me. Secondly, if the euro is to increase, as in our world trade scenario, it will have an immediate impact on our competitiveness, on the competitiveness of the euro area, on other regions of the world and on our export position. A number of risks are in the scenarios we have shown. You could have made all kinds of other scenarios. That's a trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u92	I would like to know how far you are with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u93	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u94	I asked a question about VAT. I'm just gonna reset it. You can say they're going to pay less income tax, but if you raise that low VAT again, you'll just pay it back in the store. The question is what that means for the division between rich and poor. Isn't that a de-levelling measure? What does it mean for the jobs? Research agency NYFER has calculated that getting off the low VAT rate costs 55,000 jobs. Can the Minister confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u95	Mr Merkies now intends to conduct the tax debate and then takes one possible measure, which the cabinet has not communicated at all. I don't know why he insists on saying that we're going to do this sort of thing. Then he asks me how I feel about that and whether NYFER is right. We come up with plans for the tax system. That includes VAT. I refer to the Secretary of State's letter on this matter. What measures will be taken at a later date?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u96	So you couldn't talk about anything anymore. This is one of the variants mentioned. Of course, we have asked questions about this to the Secretary of State. We're not getting an answer. It's a perfectly normal question, isn't it? What impact does this measure have on the distribution between rich and poor and on jobs? Isn't that something the Cabinet can say?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u97	Yes, but Mr Merkies is coming up with a measure, not the cabinet. He stands here with a measure and claims that the cabinet is preparing it. I don't know where he gets it all from. He then asked me if the cabinet could say anything about that. There are a thousand variants that I can say something about, but the President is calling for me to be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u98	You can also say that the measure is not in preparation. I'm fine with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u99	We can list a thousand variations in the tax system and you can ask if they are in preparation. Mr President, excuse me, you would never do that, but Mr Merkies would. I'm not gonna walk by a thousand measures to tell you whether or not they're in our plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u100	I have a brief question for the Minister. Mr Nijboer had a good speech about wages in the public sector, officials, teachers and agents. Today, my colleague Mr Van Weyenberg's motion on pension contributions was adopted. Does the government indeed intend to pay, in line with that motion for the summer, that 0.8% pension premium, resulting from the reform of the White Covenant, which leads to more purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u101	I have not yet been able to take note of this motion, but there is no doubt that this 0.8% should benefit the purchasing power of those concerned. The only question is whether it should be part of the collective bargaining that is currently taking place. That seems logical and sensible to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u102	That was the heart of the motion. At the heart of the motion is that it should be paid separately from the collective bargaining to give all those teachers, officials and agents a little extra purchasing power already.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u103	That sounds like Mr Koolmees just invented a little extra for those people. It can only be made available once. I am sure Mr Blok will respond to that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u104	Mr Koolmees is a little excited today. He's still a bit in election mode, but the elections have been. I had asked if the cabinet would like to quickly show police officers, teachers, people working for the public cause, on their paychecks and make them feel like they're getting money in the wallet. That money's available. Is the Cabinet planning to do that soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u105	As far as we're concerned, we're doing it fast. As you know, there are now, as we speak, collective bargaining. It is very good for everyone to conclude new collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u106	In general, I agree with the Minister. I made a speech in the autumn in which I pointed out that it is important that this is done quickly. We're almost in May now. I therefore call on the cabinet to reach an agreement quickly with the trade unions. After all, only when there is an agreement can teachers, police officers and other civil servants, who have been on the zero line for years, feel it in the wallet. It's really high time this happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u107	I agree. However, the conclusion of an agreement requires several parties. I believe that all parties are constructive in this, so it should be done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u108	The Minister just told Mr Merkies that he does not want to speculate about all kinds of measures, about the 6% VAT and so on, but apparently the Minister wants to speculate about the capital efficiency tax, the savings tax. He said about it: on Prince's Day I come with it, and it becomes just, you know. The whole of the Netherlands says: 'Hey, finally, something's going to happen. What's gonna happen? The Minister himself looks up the press with the proposal that something will happen. Can he tell us what he's up to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u109	I got a question from the press about that. I have almost literally said I do not have the letter at hand, so it is dangerous to say only 'literally'...................................................................................................................................................... We have already announced this in the letter of principle from Secretary of State Wiebes. I was also surprised that this made De Telegraaf's front page, because it was not a new announcement. We are going to review the design of box 3 of the flat-rate rate of return because of this injustice. That's not news. I didn't indicate any precise design in the paper either. Like all other measures, this will become part of the system review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u110	But new was the remark: I came to introduce Princess Day. That's a...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u111	That's not new either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u112	... new phenomenon. The same letter from the Secretary of State also states that it is better to levy taxes on consumption than on labour and that it may be looked at. So there are a lot of directions in there that you could look at. However, this article specifically stated: on Princess Day, in September, the Minister of Finance presented proposals on the capital efficiency levy. But there is no consensus, there are no proposals and there has been no discussion. I am therefore curious to see what the Minister comes up with on Princess Day and why that is not in the Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u113	First of all, let me say something about the deadline. State Secretary Wiebes has already written in his letter: in the light of the 2016 budget. It appears on Prince's Day. So I was genuinely unaware that I would have reported something new. You should attack me if I had mentioned a later date. The cabinet has said before that it will come forward with proposals at the latest on Prinsjesdag. We want a tax review. We have indicated this before, and the Prime Minister has already said so in the General Reviews. A first substantial part of that tax review should already be included in the 2016 Tax Plan. So if we didn't come up with that on Prince's Day, you'd have to attack me and say, "Where is it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u114	Mr Merkies, you're back at the interrupting microphone. I did not want to limit the number of interruptions in the hope that you would all do it a little bit succinctly. Anyway, your last interruption, Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u115	I'll keep it brief. Indeed, there is that letter from Secretary of State Wiebes, but let us be clear, which came after a whole debate had been held. That was precisely the question: are there taboos or are there no taboos? There were no taboos, so we finally understood. That would therefore apply to the capital efficiency levy. In the last few days I have seen the Minister's variants pass by, but there is not the variant of the progressive load. The real return is taxed, but that is really something else. He specifically leaves out that progressive tax on capital. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u116	I didn't mention any variants at all. Take De Telegraaf with you. I have just said that we are going to take the flat-rate capital return tax which now exists in box 3. I refer to the letter from Secretary of State Wiebes announcing this. In De Telegraaf I haven't taken an advance on variants at all, so I don't understand what Mr Merkies is worried about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u117	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u118	I saw a list at RTLZ yesterday with four variants that the minister would have mentioned. This variant isn't one of them. Can the Minister say that the variant of a progressive tax on capital is still there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u119	Mr Merkies really needs to be more precise. Apparently, he's seen a list of four variants at RTL. He says back there I suspect on his own authority that they come from me. It helps the debate if we are all a little more precise. I have just said that we will come up with proposals on the flat-rate rate of return, because it is clearly unfair at the moment, especially for groups of savers. I didn't take an advance on variants. I didn't mention any variant in De Telegraaf. However, I have repeated that we will come forward with proposals on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u121	If Mr Merkies does not want proposals, he must say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u122	Mr President, that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u123	No, Mr. Merkies. You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u124	I'm being addressed, Mr. Chairman. Mr Koolmees was also addressed just now, and he was allowed to make a fairly long speech at that time. I'm being specifically addressed here. The point is that I am asking for clarity about this. If the Minister says that I am calling for clarity, let him clarify it and say that this variant, the variant of a progressive load, is still possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u126	It certainly belongs to the possibilities. We have always said to each other that we do not want taboos and that we are exploring all kinds of possibilities. We have had this debate with each other before. At this stage, I do not perform any variants, but also no variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u127	Madam President. Mr Harbers spoke about streamlining and strengthening the European Semester. The European economy and the financial systems of the 28 Member States of Europe are closely interlinked. This means that vulnerabilities in one country also affect the other countries. That is why it is important that there is a system within Europe to coordinate the economic policies and budgetary discipline of the Member States. This system, namely the European Semester, has an annual cycle under which country-specific recommendations are made. These recommendations are also intended to be followed up. This year, the first steps have been taken to streamline and strengthen the European Semester, as Mr Harbers said, a good system that we have set up with each other. The Commission's country reports were published earlier this time. The Commission has also called for more attention to be paid to the implementation of the recommendations "Those recommendations are there for a reason and to present that implementation to each other in a clear way. That is a step in the right direction. As the Netherlands, we believe that more can be done. The Commission was planning to come up with plans, but it postponed them for a while. At the moment we are expecting these plans in the course of May. However, we believe that earlier publication of the country-specific recommendations would be a good thing. This would allow more time for Parliament and other stakeholders to discuss and implement those recommendations. We very much agree with the European Commission on the implementation of the recommendations. After all, that is what it is all about. The preparation of analyses and recommendations is good, but they must be followed up to ensure that vulnerabilities are addressed and resolved in Europe. Vulnerabilities in one country can have a major impact on what is happening in the other countries. As the Netherlands, we also think it is possible to focus on the process. There are now a lot of reports, analyses and recommendations. If we could focus on this point, it would be easier to give them the attention they deserve, in particular to carry out what is recommended. The Netherlands plays an active role in this respect. We are making proposals on this point. We have already poured the documents that we have presented this year, the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme, into the new form, which we expect to be there in the near future. We are also the country that involves most of the social partners. The social partners have made a separate analysis and provided a separate piece. We discussed this with the social partners together with our documents in the ESC context. The European Commission has said of the way in which we deal with the social partners that this is the way in which it should actually be done in all the countries of Europe. A number of points, in particular, have been raised by the spokesmen, which I shall be passing briefly. Mr Nijboer spoke about the high wages, at least the higher wages he gives to others. As far as civil servants are concerned, my colleague from the finance department has already mentioned this. In general terms, high wages naturally mean higher consumption and increasing purchasing power. This is a contribution to economic recovery, but we also know, of course, that higher wages affect the competitiveness of business. That is why labour costs are important. This affects employment, and that means that the possibilities must be looked at by sector and perhaps also by company. So it is up to the employers and the workers in our country to negotiate that. Mr Nijboer stressed in particular the importance of public workers. He was right to do so, because we, as a cabinet, are inclined to do so. I will go straight into what Mr Nijboer said about institutional investors. We save a lot of money. This comes from insurers, where 500 billion is saved for pensions. It also comes with pension funds, where 1,000 billion is saved for pensions. The insurers invest 43% in the Netherlands and the pension funds 14%. We have the ambition to increase that last percentage in particular. The pension funds are certainly not unwilling to do so. I think it is very nice that they have set up the National Investment Institute together with the insurers. They also provide human resources to ensure that this National Investment Institution can do the things that can result in them getting better formulated and also better investment proposals from the Netherlands in terms of size, which makes it easier for them to say yes. The pension funds have recently taken a number of initiatives in the most difficult area, namely the financing of SMEs, together with insurers. They have set up two funds, in particular enabling them to strengthen the equity of SMEs, making it easier for banks to lend banking credit to SMEs. With these funds, insurers and pension funds have chosen a way of ensuring that they can make additional SME funding available for up to 2 billion. The financing of SMEs is most problematic at the moment. The fact that they took that most difficult problem directly to the head and came up with something constructive is very encouraging. The combination of this initiative and the creation of the NII make me optimistic about what is still possible from pension funds on this point. I believe that there is a great deal of space there and that there can be much more investment in our country in a responsible way. I also feel confirmed by other countries in the world, which like to invest in the Netherlands. They also invested more than 3 billion in the Netherlands last year and created more than 6,000 jobs. In the meantime, we have some million jobs in the Netherlands as a result of investments by foreign companies in our country. This means that there is also room for pension funds and insurers, and in particular for that first group, to invest more in our country. Mr Merkies also spoke about the European Semester. I've already gone to him about that. Mr Klaver also referred to the democratic deficit he had identified in relation to the European Semester. He was right to do that. The European Semester is important, as is the role of the European Commission and the role of Cabinets in Europe. It is, however, the art of involving the European Parliament and the national parliaments. That means putting things in the right shape and putting them in place in good time, so that the parliaments have enough time to go into this and discuss it with the cabinet in their country and the European Commission in Europe. On this point, as Mr Klaver suggested, the necessary improvements will have to be made. Mrs Bruins Slot has given me the signal that imports into the Netherlands are growing faster than exports. She wondered why that was the case. I hope she is not concerned about this, because in the Netherlands there is a very large surplus on the balance of payments. We're doing a lot more than we're entering. The difference is 10%. We are also constantly told by international bodies that this difference is very large. We think it is a sign of our strong competitiveness. Our industry is able to produce what is needed on the world market. It can also produce a lot for its own Dutch market, which means less imports are needed. I think it is positive that in our country with a huge port, which means that much goes to Germany and elsewhere in Europe, we still have a large surplus on the current account. It is getting half a percent less, Mrs Bruins Slot is right, but that 9.5% is still proof of our strong competitive position. Mrs Bruins Slot also spoke about gas extraction. Mrs Schouten and Mr Koolmees did the same. The Finance Member referred to me, so I would like to point out to Members that, as a cabinet, we assume that 39.4 billion cubic tons of gas will be won in Groningen this year. We take into account the possibility that it will become less. This will be decided on 1 July following an opinion received from State surveillance of the Mines. Then it will be on the agenda that it may go to 35 billion cub: that is the sum of 33 billion plus 2 billion, as we previously exchanged with the Chamber. Now there's a ruling from the Council of State. That's a provisional provision. The Council of State says to the cabinet: at least that 39.4 billion cuub should be reduced, because at Loppersum you have reduced production by 80%, but it needs to be further reduced. We've calculated what we're going to end up with this year when we implement that provisional provision. That's the 36 billion cube we're talking about. We have not yet drawn any consequences for the budget. That is because there is already the possibility of going to 35 billion cube on 1 July. So now we have the 35, the 36 and the 39.4 in view. We'll see what comes out of July 1st. Then we will take the consequences into account in our financial statements. To give an idea: if we go from 39.4 billion to 35 billion cub, this means that for 2015 there will be 850 million less gas revenues in the treasury.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u128	The Minister has just sent a letter to the Chamber in which he mentions the 36 billion cub for Groningen. Does this mean that there is a possibility that the 3 billion cub will not be pumped up in Groningen but elsewhere in the country? Is that still open? The Minister also says he doesn't know yet because he's going to look at it on 1 July. But he already knows he's gonna change it. Is he not prepared to bring that moment forward and clarify it earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u129	I don't know if I'm gonna change it. I'm getting an analysis from the NAM for that and an opinion from the State Department of Mines on that. I have exchanged with the Chamber that we will decide on this on 1 July. We will also decide again on 1 January, because we are also working on a different system. We exchanged those moments with the Chamber on July 1st and January 1st. We have that provisional provision, which is yet to lead to a final decision by the Council of State, which is expected at the end of this year or early next year. We are already getting ahead of that and we are following that preliminary ruling. I note that the 36 billion remains within the range between 35 billion and 39.4 billion cube. The decision will be taken on 1 July. We'll process the effects of that. Then we have also done justice to the ruling of the Council of State. Mrs Schouten also asked whether we could accept the restriction elsewhere in Groningen. The answer to that is no. Our small fields are already three quarters or more exhausted. There aren't many small fields. Here and there, but something's going off. With small fields collecting what is less won in Groningen is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u130	It was not so much the question of whether it could be done, because as far as we are concerned it is not happening, but I wanted to get that clarification. It's a good thing we have it now. But for the Groningen people, there is still no clarity. Two dates were mentioned: 1 January and 1 July. I note, however, that a crack in the gas extraction decision was struck halfway through the Council of State ruling. Give that clarity already! Why wait until 1 July if it turns out that it is being modified anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u131	I have been here for an entire afternoon and evening to have a discussion with the Chamber. Since then, I've been called upon four more times. I really say the same thing every time. We have taken a reasoned decision to draw our conclusions on 1 July and 1 January. I'm holding on to that now. There has been an interim interim provision from the Council of State to which I am entitled. This provisional provision will also be processed financially, depending on the decision-making process that will take place on 1 July. I am not going to make any new comments on this point. Mrs Schouten said in a subtitle that she no longer wants gas coming out of the small fields. I'm not ready yet. You have small fields on the North Sea and also inland. If gas can be extracted in a responsible way, it is in the interests of the inhabitants of our country. We must therefore consider it, but it must be possible in a responsible way. We have already talked a lot about this, and that has ultimately led everyone to believe that they should and how to do it. I have not yet answered all of Mrs Schouten's questions. It said, like Mr Koolmees, that unemployment is falling slowly. I don't understand that statement very well. In the last quarter of 2015, employment increased by 50 000 jobs, which is, of course, the most important condition for reducing unemployment. This year an increase of 90,000 jobs is expected and an increase of 90,000 jobs next year. In a two-year period and a quarter, 230,000 jobs will thus be created. I believe that the first condition for the reduction of unemployment is the increase in employment. Moreover, in our country there are still many vacancies in production, in the technical professions and in ICT. Let us face that. There are 34 000 jobs to be filled in ICT. So there are still many opportunities to fill vacancies. It is everyone's individual responsibility to ensure that they or they themselves have what employers need so that supply and demand in the labour market are brought closer together than is currently the case. Many people from other countries of Europe are working in the Netherlands. Businesses need to get more and more technical people and production people from abroad, but still many vacancies cannot be filled. We are faced with this challenge too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u132	Have you answered all the questions about the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u133	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u134	The Minister says that for the first time in years, employment is finally rising again. I fully agree with that, and we should indeed welcome it. At the same time, we see in all the sums that are now being made that the number of unemployed remains above 600,000, even in the years 2016 and 2017. So unemployment is slowly falling. Doesn't the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u135	That's right, but there's also a mechanism behind it. Often there are two people in a family who can and want to work. At times when there are few opportunities on the labour market, those of the two who are not working do not sign up. Because that is not necessary for a benefit and, moreover, there is little chance of a job. As soon as the labour market attracts and there are jobs, the person returns to the labour market. I'm happy about that. I'd like anyone who can work to sign up. I'd like these people to fill the vacancies that exist. It is a challenge for the cabinet to achieve the necessary job growth. I think we are on the right track for that. Mr Merkies spoke about poverty policy. I heard a number of critical remarks from him about this. Poverty policy is an important issue for the cabinet. This is constantly demonstrated by the actions of my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment in this dossier. For a number of years now, there has been a decline in the number of jobless households in the Netherlands. That is a good development. There are fewer households where no one works. Moreover, you can see that the European Commission concludes that the Netherlands is the second best country in terms of the risk of poverty and social exclusion. This risk is very low in the Netherlands, compared to almost all other countries of Europe, and that is encouraging. Poverty policy must continue to be addressed. Employment is rising. The risk of poverty and social exclusion is low. Let's keep going on that right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u136	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u137	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u138	The funny thing is that I didn't mention poverty policy, but I could have mentioned that. Apparently, the minister knew about that. What I did mention, and what the Minister might have meant, is the lack of capacity. Last week it came out that it went up again. The richest 10% had 56% four years earlier and 66% four years later, i.e. an increase of ten percentage points over four years. At least I thought that was huge. What is the Minister's statement and what can we do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u139	I wrote that Mr Merkies would have spoken about poverty policy. Of course, he knows that better than I know. I have responded as well as possible to the point he raised. He puts forward a certain aspect. That is important, but I would like to point out another aspect. That gives the balance in the imagery. I think we need to do more work. The Netherlands is one of the countries where rich and poor are closest to each other. We are a country that is very much levelled compared to all the other countries in the world. As a result, the risk of poverty and social exclusion in the Netherlands is also very low. We can be positive about it and say that there are still things that can be improved. We need to work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u140	I call that more often, for example when it comes to VAT. I was talking specifically about the capabilities. I call that particularly because it is said that there is no buffer. That was also the reason why consumption fluctuates so much, because the poorest groups have no buffer. Is the Cabinet prepared to do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u141	The poorest groups have one big buffer and that's our AOW. In almost all the countries of Europe there is not such a general provision for people who no longer work or who may not have worked their whole lives. Everyone's entitled to AOW. That basic provision is there, and that is where people have certainly contributed to the working people's contribution in the form of premiums. Then you also have the fact that, across the board, employees in the Netherlands are entitled to a supplementary pension. People with lower incomes often also have a supplementary pension. It may be that people have less wealth on paper than in other countries, but in that situation, if you include the rights that people have in AOW and on supplementary pensions, I think there will be a balanced picture. A balanced picture is what the cabinet is aiming for. It appears from the documents that are now being discussed in the Chamber and which have received the attention they deserve, that we have managed to do so fairly well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u142	I would like to talk about unemployment. 650,000 people are unemployed. This cabinet is talking about jobs. There will be 240,000 jobs, but those 650,000 people will still be on the sidelines in two or three years. These 240,000 jobs are filled by people who have withdrawn from the labour market. I don't believe that. I do not believe that 240,000 people are sitting at home, have withdrawn, because they are discouraged and think: no, I am not going to register at the UWV again. Those numbers are too large. I would like to know from the Minister how it is that 650,000 unemployed are still unemployed in two or three years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u143	Mr Van Dijck impresses me with someone who, in panic, is still looking for a bad message that he can do something with. We are in the situation of a rapid reduction in the budget deficit. Economic growth has doubled compared to last year. Employment is increasing. In terms of poverty and social exclusion, our situation is one of the best in Europe. The pension provisions we have built together offer perspective to the people. Then Mr Van Dijck says: employment is rising, but unemployment is not falling enough. He is right, of course, but he and I both know that two things must be done to reduce unemployment. First of all, we need to ensure that employment grows. So that's what happens. Secondly, you must also seize the opportunities that exist in the labour market. These opportunities exist: in production, technical professions and ICT. This is primarily the responsibility of the people without work themselves, but the cabinet also contributes to this with the sectoral plans. This means that sectorial people can be helped to take those opportunities where there are opportunities. I think we can be satisfied with the state of play I have just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u144	I can't imagine the Minister being satisfied if unemployment doesn't go down. Two years ago, we had 450,000 unemployed. We thought that was a lot back then. Now you are driving this cabinet and we have 200,000 more unemployed: there are now 650,000. What is the message of this cabinet to those 650,000 unemployed? Forget it. For the next two or three years, you won't get to work. We do have a lot of jobs, the economy is growing and things are going so well, but ultimately there is no extra job created for those 650,000 unemployed. The question to this minister is: what is he doing, with all his sector plans, for those 650,000 people who are on the sidelines?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u145	I do not know whether Mr Van Dijck will have time to read the Acts again. He says that the Cabinet is not doing anything to ensure that extra work is created, while we have just exchanged...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u146	For those 650,000 unemployed!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u147	So if you create jobs, you create opportunities, even for those 650,000 people. I have just exchanged with the Chamber that in the last quarter of 2014 50,000 jobs have been created. The assessment of the Central Planning Bureau, which is confirmed by the facts in the first quarter, is that 90,000 jobs will be created this year. The expectation for next year is that there will be another 90,000 jobs. Then why would you say there's no work to be done? Of course there's work to be done. Jobs that come with it are opportunities for people who are currently out of work. In order to tackle the problem of the 650,000 unemployed, we had to ensure that jobs were created. It is created and created. We must also ensure that people are able to pick up those jobs. That is what we have the sectoral plans for. We have done what needs to be done. That is of such quality that it also deserves the support of Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u148	That brings us to the end of the government's first term. I propose that the sitting be suspended for an hour until 8:25 p.m. I hear Members now saying that there is no need for this, but I would point out that this is not just about MPs and directors, but also about the people who serve us here. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments, for consultation with the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u149	Democratic consultation with everything and everyone has shown me that we can proceed with the debate right away. Everyone has promised that we will be able to finish the debate within ten minutes. In the second term I shall give the floor to Mr Koolmees, who is already ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u150	Mr President, thank you for the coulance. I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. We're halfway through the cabinet period. The cabinet still has two years left, and my advice is: use these two years for more jobs, more purchasing power and a modern and robust pension and tax system. The Minister of Finance indicated that the government is facing three major reforms: the tax reform, the future of the pension system and the future of thezzp'ers. I'd almost say forward now. It's ambitious, it's beautiful, I totally agree. But I'm worried too. There is nothing in the 2015 Stability Programme about the tax review. It doesn't even say how much space there is. Mrs Schouten pointed out in the first place that the pension vision would come in January. It's shifted to summer and it's probably after summer. The IBO on thezzp'ers would also appear in January, then it became just after the elections and now no one knows which drawer it is in. The point is: there will be no concrete plan. My appeal to the cabinet is: come up with concrete ideas! D66 is keen to encourage the cabinet to implement these ambitious reforms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u152	No, Mr. Chairman, just a few more seconds. The Minister of Finance spoke of sharp wording. That's what I'm gonna do. Mr Harbers spoke about extra money for defence and security. That must be done within the expenditure framework; that is what the Minister of Finance says. There are then two variants: either more money for Defence and Security will lose the PvdA, because then measures will have to be taken or no more money for Defence and Security, and then Mr Harbers will lose, because he will have nothing. At the bottom of the line, there is no room for new expenditure. That is the essence of the story, because the money must remain for the tax review. I want one more letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u153	It's being copied now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u154	No, I want a cabinet letter on the Van Weyenberg motion on the payment of pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u155	If everyone's going to elaborate, I'm really gonna suspend for an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u156	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands needs more jobs and confidence in the economy and therefore a growth in consumer spending. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that after 1 July 2015, the reduced VAT rate of 6%, applicable to labour costs in the case of renovation and recovery of dwellings over two years of age, is increased to 21%;]] [[Whereas the reduced VAT rate, like the SDE+ scheme, contributes to achieving the objectives of the energy agreement by providing homeowners with an incentive to make their home more sustainable and thereby save energy;]] [[Whereas the reduced VAT rate has an incentive effect on employment in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the reduced VAT rate of 6% can be continued for this year, to seek cover for this in the SDE+ scheme, for example, and to inform the Court of Justice of this in the Spring paper,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Merkies. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u157	One final comment. I wonder what kind of disclaimer there is in the e-mail with this letter going to the Commission. The conclusion of this debate is that it is not until the autumn that we will have any real clarity about gas spending, taxation and the round in the ministries. The Minister of Finance himself admitted that the current figures of the CPB are incorrect, because the ministries assume other things. I'd like a reflection on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u158	Mr. Chairman. Since you're in such a hurry, I'll be brief. It was indeed a debate which showed that there is still a great deal of uncertainty. It is unclear what form the tax revision takes. It is unclear what the expenditure requirements will look like. What surprised me most is the uncertainty that still exists for the Groningen people, even though the Minister sent a letter this morning on gas extraction. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has still not taken a final decision on the level of gas extraction from the Groningenveld in the second part of the calendar year 2015;]] [[whereas the cabinet has already released the official extraction decision on production from the Groningenveld for 2015;]] [[Whereas the Groningers are entitled to clarity and a responsible decision can contribute to the restoration of trust;]] [[urges the Government to take a final mining decision by 1 June at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schouten and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-21501-07-1253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u159	Exactly one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u160	Exactly. You can do it. Mr Klaver and Mr Van Dijck will refrain from speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u161	Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Schouten said, much has remained unclear. That goes for me, too. I have not really received any answers to a number of questions either. That way, two out of three people can't put anything aside. In that we are very different from Europe. I'm worried about that. I still do not see why this is the case in the Netherlands and not in other countries. Furthermore, in four years the power inequality has changed considerably. First, the richest 10% had 56% of the total, then 66%. That's a huge shift. I didn't agree to that. Minister Kamp dealt with income inequality, but not property inequality. Finally, my name is also under Mrs Bruins Slot's motion, because it is good to be clear about that 6% this year, because it is already coming to an end in the middle of the year. People who want to ensure more sustainability, who want to isolate their homes, paint and so on, can do so now until mid-year. What does the Cabinet have to offer them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u162	Mr Nijboer does not need a second term. I see the Minister of Finance can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u163	Mr. Chairman. Mr Koolmees did not ask any more questions, but asked for another letter. It was almost a matter for the organisation of work. Of course, if the House so requests, we will respond quickly to the Van Weyenberg motion. Finally, he said: let's go! Come on, let's go. The cabinet has been moving two and a half years ahead, with the support of D66, so the word "now" seems misplaced to me. Mrs Bruins Slot said that much remains unclear. This debate is about the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. The Stability Programme calls on us, on the basis of the latest figures, the CEP figures, to report to Brussels how the budget is developing. That's what we do. That budget is developing very well, much better than we expected. We meet all the budgetary standards that Brussels sets us. See the judgment of the Council of State. That is what this debate is about. Next, she says: I want to be clear about the tax review, tax relief and so on. We are talking about reducing costs and purchasing power every year in August. The gas decision, which was discussed by the Minister for Economic Affairs, comes on 1 July. The major tax reform comes with the 2016 budget at the latest, i.e. by Prinsjesdag. That's not unclear. Those are fixed deadlines that we have long known with each other, and normal decision-making moments. That's how we're in it. Mr Merkies regretted that he had not received a response to his point that two out of three people could not save enough or not enough. I started with that and indicated why. This has a great deal to do with the balance-sheet problems that people have. That again has a lot to do with the structures in our economy. I have made a whole speech on this. At least that was my attempt to answer that. Apparently, I didn't. I would just like to respond to Mrs Bruins-Slot's motion on the low VAT rate for renovation and repair in construction. We do not intend to extend this temporary crisis measure. As often happens with temporary measures, they come to an end at some point. That's why they have a stimulating effect: people know it's temporary and then you provoke things. The economic recovery has started and reconstruction in the construction industry is also beginning to develop. It is therefore a good time not to pursue this measure. Moreover, the lower rate will continue to apply to insulation measures and to painting and plastering of houses over two years old. This will also provide an incentive to invest in sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u164	And your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u165	Dissuade. I would just like to say a few words about the coverage under the SDE+ scheme. The VAT-low rate is the revenue side and the SDE+ scheme is the expenditure side. Apart from that, the SDE+ scheme is very specific for renewable energy. That is what she is being used for, and we are not making ad hoc money out of it for another good cause, no doubt. For that reason, too, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u166	Ultimately, it's about strengthening sustainability. That is also extremely important. They are communicative vessels, especially now that the Minister of Economic Affairs is struggling to achieve his policy objectives around the energy agreement. This is mainly an encouragement for the cabinet to pursue good policy points. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance once again. Sometimes you just have to carry on with the good stuff, despite the fact that you've put a deadline on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u167	I have already said that the measure is temporary and has already had its effect. The recovery has now started and for that reason we are leaving again that temporarily reduced rate. Moreover, the coverage cannot really come from the SDE+ scheme. That money is collected for a very specific destination. There is also a system for defining what these funds are intended for. You can't just say ad hoc that you're taking it out of the SDE+ pot because you suddenly need money. That would be really unwise. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u168	Go on! Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u169	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u170	Then the Minister for Economic Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u171	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Schouten has tabled a motion stating that the government has released the official extraction decision from the Groningen field for 2015. That is not the case; we have a decision for 39.4 billion cubic metres of extraction this year, but we have said that the possibility of going back to 33 plus 2 or 35 billion cubic metres should be shown. We have already reduced extraction in the first half of the year in order to keep the choice of the second option open. The two options will be decided on 1 July, after the necessary preparatory work has been done. We are working hard on that right now. 1 June is therefore not a date on which the cabinet can quote responsibly. We are holding on to the date of about 1 July and we therefore advise against Mrs Schouten's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u172	Mr Merkies has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u173	It is a very specific question for the Minister of Finance, but I was already too late. That question was about the coverage in the SDE+. Does it make the Minister more positive if we didn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u174	Since the cabinet is used to speaking with one mouth, I will respond to that. As my colleague said, the SDE+ scheme is not intended for this purpose. What it is intended for is precisely in the scheme and that is not to reduce VAT. At the time, the cabinet decided to reduce VAT for renovation and repair in the construction sector, as this was intended to have certain effects. Those effects have been realised. It was possible to achieve some additional effects with extension, but as you extend them further, the effects are getting smaller and smaller. There is now a six-month extension for this year. This has been decided, and that is all we have to say. We also have to change this motion to what we said, namely that we will end the scheme, with some parts of the scheme still possible for the rest of the year as far as the reduced VAT rate is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-21-tweedekamer-28.u175	We shall be voting on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the directors, Members, officials and people who have listened to this debate on the Internet.
