ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome Minister Blok. Speaking time has been given. The Members of Parliament have indicated what part of their speaking time they wish to use globally in the first term. I will start generously and not limit the number of interruptions. I assume, however, that Members are trying to impose some restrictions on themselves. I'll allow for interruptions in two instalments. I call Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Time is really fast. It seems only a few weeks ago, but the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Housing Corporations already presented its final report almost a year ago. During that survey I was allowed for the first time to get to know the world of housing corporations in depth. When I think back to that time, I think back to a very useful time: long and extensive preparation behind closed doors, regardless of the delusion of the day, with public hearings and public accountability, with the aim of really improving housing corporations with recommendations. That was a very educational period. During the survey, I was too often alarmed by the abuses. I call fraud, gambling with public money, pocket-filling and mismanagement of directors who had forgotten that they were the board of a social housing corporation. The good corporations must now bleed for the corporations that have shown irresponsible misconduct. Tenants, many good and involved directors and concerned employees of housing corporations are screwed. They suffer most damage, directly and indirectly. The direct damage of the abuses investigated is about 3 billion, but there is also a lot of indirect damage. Think, for example, of the land positions charged, the income lost and the damage to the economy. Does the Minister have any idea of that total damage? According to Professor Conijn, 9.4 billion in social capacity has evaporated. Can the Minister elaborate on that? What about Vestia? Is there a need for a new recovery round in the future? Do housing corporations, and so the tenants, have to pull the wallet again and, if so, for how much money? The survey report far from home, which we debated almost a year ago, has now led to a better housing law. That's good news. I am proud that we have given tenants and municipalities more power. The financial pressure on housing corporations is caused not only by the abuses, but also by the cabinet and the parties who signed the housing agreement. The rent of affordable houses is charged with a landlord's tax of 1.6 billion. In order to realise how distorted the situation is, one should look at the banking tax. It's worth $0.5 billion. Banks therefore pay 0.5 billion, while tenants have to raise 1.6 billion. Can the Minister explain this crooked relationship? The stock of social housing is getting smaller and smaller. The liberalization limit is even frozen, so that even more houses are liberalised and no longer part of the social housing stock. Why should stocks be reduced? After all, there is a shortage of housing. Is the Minister prepared to increase the liberalization limit and then simply index it annually? The landlord's tax is not abolished, but even runs after 2018. The income-dependent rent increase only partially disappears. The rents are already hugely high and they are also rising due to the income-dependent rent increase. How long will tenants be financially squeezed? Would it not be fair to allow rent increases to follow inflation only? Why should rents be increased by more than just inflation? Isn't it smarter to turn the landlord's tax into an investment obligation? This is good for the house seeker, good for employment and ultimately good for the state treasury, because then revenue comes through VAT and wage taxes. The SP Group wants investment in construction. With the landlord's tax, this cabinet doesn't do that. In fact, after 2018, the cabinet will raise the landlord's tax to over 1.7 billion. How much is that gonna be? I think we also had a deal with the minister. There would be an evaluation, or would the Minister skip it? As far as I am concerned, the Minister has something to explain. In addition to the increase in the landlord levy, there is a shortage of the rent surcharge. That's no surprise, because that deficit is budgeted every year. When will that be resolved? Where is the cabinet going to get the 230 million we are short this year? This cabinet stimulates sales. As many as ten thousand rentals are in foreign hands. That has never been shown before and that is under pressure. Why is the minister at German real estate fairs to sell our social housing to foreign investors? Why were top officials sent to London with the sales contracts of our social rental homes as hand luggage, while so many tenants are on waiting lists? How does this sales policy relate to the Minister's priority, namely the availability of housing? There are huge waiting lists now, in some places very long waiting lists? Sadet Karabulut, my predecessor, has repeatedly asked the Minister to provide insight into those long waiting lists. Is the Minister finally prepared to do so? Does he agree with me that no social housing should be sold on waiting lists?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	I have heard Mr Bashir make this point a number of times in the media in recent days. I'm trying to understand. A corporation sells one property and uses the money to build a cheaper home. I'd say you'd have two. So what's the problem with selling that place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Houses are sold and thus excluded from the social housing sector. At the moment that tenants who are now in the homes leave, there is a good chance that the properties will be merged, sold or resold on the market. Then we lost the homes for the social housing sector. At the moment, there are huge deficits. People have to wait years for a place to live. In Amsterdam, the average waiting period is now nine years, but some people have to wait ten or eleven years. Then we shouldn't be selling houses. No, we're gonna have to build extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	We agree on that. That is what the policy is based on. What I'm tasting at the SP is that the SP doesn't really want pension funds to invest in the housing market, for example. I think, however, that they should do so. I do not need to explain to Mr Bashir that people in an existing rental house simply have rent protection and that the housing valuation system is in place and that nothing changes about that property. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	The money that sold properties generate is not always used to build new homes. That money goes to the minister in the form of the landlord's tax. For a number of years, housing corporations have been obliged to pay that landlord's tax. In fact, it's even being raised. If you compare that to the half a billion-dollar bank tax, you can see how skewed the proportions are. Don't come up with the story that all that money is being invested in new homes again, because that's not happening. Houses are being sold. Some go to people who already live in them, some go to other housing corporations, but the fact remains that a large part of those homes are sold on. We shall then lose it for the market in social housing, where there are enormous deficits.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	That's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	The problem the SP calls here, I can follow. Most of the rental homes that are released are not sold to foreign countries; priority is given to asylum seekers. The SP wants that. Why doesn't Mr Bashir mention that? Why doesn't he bring that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	The problem is not that asylum seekers are coming. The problem is that there are huge deficits. If we do nothing about the sale and do nothing about the fact that 1.6 billion goes to the state treasury instead of building new houses, the problem of the deficit remains. If you want to do something about the waiting lists, you need to invest and build up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	It takes years to build, as Mr Bashir knows. There are already huge deficits and waiting lists, just for social housing. The SP says that the priority regime for asylum seekers can continue to exist. As a result, the waiting lists will only increase. In addition, the SP also wants to keep the boundaries open so that the influx becomes even larger. Why does the SP abandon its own voters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	First of all, a correction: the SP is not in favour of the rules of priority that are now in place. We think that everyone should line up in the back. Mr Madlener's question is not genuine. That's what's against me now. Mr Madlener has always been in favour of the sale of social housing. I have here a press release from the department of the PVV in The Hague that says: building many social housing is not social. At the moment, the PVV is suddenly concerned about the social housing stock, because there are asylum seekers who also want to have a home. In the years before, when there were waiting lists, we didn't hear the PVV. Mr Madlener should not come up with this story now, because that is not genuine. If he really wants to do something about the problems, he has to support the SP proposals: build more, stop selling and charge the landlord off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	I see this as entrapment, and I'd like to respond to that. What Mr Bashir is saying is half true. We do indeed want social housing to be sold sometimes, but not to foreign investors, but to the incumbent tenant at an attractive price. Of course, there's nothing against that. If the housing corporations use that money to invest in new homes, we have a win-win situation. It is the sitting tenant, Mr Bashir, that is what you have to say!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	This is the press release from the PVV itself, I'm not making it up. In fact, I made a screenshot of it so I can't get blamed for twisting things or for lying. It really says here: building a lot of social housing is not social. This is what the PVV says. When it was built, the PVV was at the front to fight the construction. Now that there is a housing shortage, the asylum seekers are being blamed. I do not think that is genuine, Mr Madlener!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	I suggest that we limit attempts at entrapment, although I can imagine the emotion sometimes. Mr Bashir now goes on with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	Stop selling! Maintain the social stock! Stop the housing shortage and stop the sale! My question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to do so. Tenants and property seekers must be at the forefront, not foreign profits and the free market. It's a warm and safe house. The sale and the landlord's levy should therefore be restricted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	I heard Mr Bashir announce an absolute stop on the sale of rentals. Are you sure this is wise? There are people who want to buy their rental house and sometimes it is the case that a rental house can be sold better because the owner can get a good price and build cheaper homes. The SP participates in lectures in Amsterdam and Utrecht and in these municipalities it is stated in the lecture programmes that a large number of social rental homes can be sold or liberalised. Are these college agreements going to be terminated now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	To respond to that last point: I've figured out what's going on. In the previous college of Amsterdam, when the PvdA, GroenLinks and the VVD were in it, it was agreed to rule over the grave and in the current period allow 22,000 homes to be sold. Thanks to the efforts of the SP Group in Amsterdam, sales have been significantly reduced and the number has been reduced to 8,000 homes. First of all, that's profit. The fact that the sale takes place in Amsterdam is not the fault of the SP Group, but of the Minister. It is the fault of the PvdA Group and the VVD Group in the House of Representatives, because they want to raise EUR 1.6 billion. For this, it is necessary to sell properties. No, we're not against all sales. When corporations sell houses to each other, it makes sense that this happens. If an existing tenant buys a property with a repurchase guarantee for the housing corporation, there is nothing wrong with that. But now homes are being sold to investors from abroad for a single purpose, namely profit maximization for investors. It does not benefit anyone: the seeker does not, the housing market does not, and ultimately the state treasury does not, because from the moment we lose those social housing, we lose them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	We agree that the mass sale of homes to foreign investors is not our first preference. We can imagine that a number of homes are sold by corporations that are financially really in a tight spot and cannot go anywhere, like Vestia. But you're definitely bringing it. You say: no social housing can be sold anymore, but in the meantime you tell us that there is still room and that in Amsterdam and Utrecht houses can be sold. Then you need to be more specific. If you really want a stop, how are you going to pay for it? Are you going to cancel the landlord's tax right now? How are you going to finance that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	We can convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation. If the housing corporations can invest those 1.6 billion, they can lend in proportion. When they invest all that money, we will see that a substantial part of the landlord's tax is recovered through the VAT and the payroll tax involved. But I hear Mr De Vries offering an opening. He says that selling to foreign investors is not his preference. Maybe we can find each other on that. If conditions are set for sale, perhaps we can find each other even better. I'm quite willing to look at terms. As an example, we are making it possible for corporations to sell houses to each other. Then the PvdA Group can sign the motion of the SP. I am quite prepared to discuss this with Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna drop the door in the house. We have a major problem with the housing of status holders. The VVD wants status holders to be kept out of the social housing system and no longer take precedence over other people on the waiting list. Status holders are people who have come to the Netherlands as asylum seekers and have been granted a permit to stay here temporarily. 14,000 people are now in an asylum-seekers' centre waiting for a home. According to the current rules, that means 14,000 people who are given priority social housing. It's not just those 14,000 people. There will be many thousands or tens of thousands in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	I hear the VVD immediately pointing to the refugee problem. Wasn't it true that, before this started to play, there were long waiting lists at the rental market as well? Isn't it true that the VVD wants to use this to raise some sort of smokescreen over the partly failing policy that has been pursued?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	A few years ago, we all saw a failure in the whole corporate sector. That is why this Minister has taken all kinds of measures. I'll mention a few. We have regulated the inflow by means of the suitability test. In recent years, we have promoted the outflow through targeted rent increases. There's gonna be a bill for temporary rent right now. That is what my question to the Minister was about. So we are doing everything we can to promote this flow. That package's running now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	I notice that Mr Van der Linde is now broadening his input. It was about the waiting lists. I believe that the waiting lists had been on average seven years, even before the debate on the refugee issue arose. I think that's too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	Let's be real; as long as you can live in the Netherlands in the Jordaan for €400 a month, there will be waiting lists. That's a fact. However, I am concerned about that teacher, that novice police officer, the people who are now just in the municipality where they work on a waiting list. We want to do something for them. To begin with, the VVD wants to ensure that status holders are no longer on that same waiting list. They should no longer be given priority over this group. That is the point of my group. Furthermore, we will do everything we can to promote the flow of normal social rents. We have done so in the last two years, and Mr Ronnes knows it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr Van der Linde made the same point four weeks ago in the same debate on the same subject. Then in the morning there was also a large piece of cool text in the newspaper about the position of the VVD. Then there was no motion. The minister said he'd think it was unwise and it was bad policy. However, there was no motion at the time. I would like to ask Mr Van der Linde whether this long-awaited motion is coming or not today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	I explained last time why I didn't file a motion. I did that very simply for the reason that I would not get a majority for that. I asked the Minister to see what he could do. We got a letter from him on Friday. It mentions very specific measures. It is about housing in containers, in barracks, in vacant care real estate and, if possible, in buildings of the Empire. That was our point. We want to move forward now. I'll come to this later in my speech. I can go on with that, Mr. Chairman. D66 would, however, help me if she herself confessed to color. Will D66 go along if we want to abolish emergency status? Is Mr Koolmees for that or is he against it? And will he remain so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	It's fun to have a you-bake like that. However, I only ask one simple question. Will Mr Van der Linde be making a motion today? I also agree with what Mr Blok said in his letter. Indeed, state real estate must be used and, indeed, reception places must be put in place as soon as possible. There is an urgent problem. I very much agree with that. However, my question concerns the first part of the VVD proposal; the tough part, the PVD light part of the proposal. Is Mr Van der Linde going to table a motion on this matter today to confess colour? Or is it just rhetoric again, a matter of winning voters and scoring newspapers? Does the VVD then run away again with the tail between the legs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	The answer to the question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Van der Linde said that he wants homes to be available for, for example, that police officer or that nurse. How is that possible if the policy of the cabinet, with the support of the VVD, is precisely aimed at reducing the number of housing available to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	I have just interviewed Mr Bashir. I asked him what's wrong with houses being turned down. There's nothing wrong with that. Those homes simply remain in the market and remain available. The big problem is not the number of social housing units. One in three Dutch live in a social housing unit. The problem is in the segment above, so in the segment of affordable free rental from between €700 to €1,000 per month. In that segment there is simply too little. If we are not careful, for example, in Amsterdam, there is a village where millionaires live in merchant houses, and on the other hand people in social housing. The whole segment in between will be gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	This is all nice and nice, but with this story the VVD doesn't make more homes available to that nurse or police officer, which is exactly why it's important. I'll come back to the status holders as well. Suppose we were to abolish the urgency statement for status holders. So we would say: those 13,000 people who are now in the asylum-seekers' centres waiting for a home, let's just sit there. That leads to other problems, but we'll just leave these people there. That wouldn't lead to that nurse and that police officer getting a place to live. Mr Van der Linde must therefore stop his fine talk and simply make sure that these people receive housing. He'd really do something for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mrs. Voortman denies the problems. It denies the problem that 14,000 people are now waiting and are entering as a matter of priority. That's at the expense of that cop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	That's what I literally said!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mrs Voortman, Mr Van der Linde has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	In addition, we have a whole programme, I have just told Mr Ronnes to promote the flow of social rents. You have partially agreed to the Housing Act. Let's take advantage of that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	Yesterday it seemed that PvdA and VVD had radically different views on an acute solution to the problems in the housing market. I think that is absolutely not the case, because we also want status holders to be heard as soon as possible, and we welcome the letter from the cabinet. We believe that this police officer and this teacher should wait far too long before all the measures we are agreeing on actually work. Doesn't the VVD want to make a very uneconomic investment for a very short time, while opting for wood rope solutions? The roof may leak, because then it is less interesting for asylum seekers to come to the Netherlands. Isn't this investment just uneconomic? We don't get it. Why not provide good housing, in which the Dutch teacher and the policeman can live? Why doesn't the VVD see that these people also have an acute question? Why is a solution designed exclusively for the status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	I am pleased that the coalition parties at least jointly recognise the problem. We both see the big problem of refugees and waiting lists. Then half of it's already won. It would be strange if the cabinet did not come out somehow, because it has been faced with more difficult tasks. In this respect, I am a long way in the direction of Mr De Vries. Mr De Vries proposes setting up emergency homes. That does not, of course, affect the importance of getting the urgency status off. 'Cause what happens if I don't? In that case, the status holders will take priority in the ordinary residences and the Dutch will be able to sit on the waiting list in such an emergency home of Mr De Vries. We both have to take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	It is going in the right direction, because it seems that we agree that it is not about housing the status holders, even though the PvdA thinks that you can do this a little bit more neatly, but we do come out of it because the Dutch house seeker is in trouble. The VVD is now proposing to help the status holders, but we are proposing to build a large amount of homes where all those other people who are waiting for a long time should be able to find someone from a divorce, someone who is in financial trouble and suddenly from a purchase to a rental house. Why don't we help these people, too? I don't get that very well. The difference of opinion is not about the status holders, but about the Dutch house seekers looking for a cheap social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	Here our opinions are at odds with each other for the simple reason that if we decide here this morning to set up 100,000 homes in the short term, which is already in a WhatsApp group in Lebanon or Somalia this afternoon. It's got a huge sucking effect. We shouldn't be naive about that, because that just happens. Refugees also walk around with iPhones and communicate with each other. We must not make the Netherlands more attractive than it already is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Let's try to contain entrapment, otherwise I'll have to limit the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	I have no objection to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr Van der Linde is taking the wrong part of my story. I did not advocate making it more attractive for status holders, I advocated making it more attractive for all those Dutch house seekers who are now in trouble. If we help status holders, we must also help the Dutch house seekers. That's my point. We are going to work together to find a solution for the status holders, because that is an acute need.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	Our fear is that you can't juggle yourself out by putting down 100,000 homes as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	I'm incredibly surprised by what I'm hearing here. The VVD Group does not want to build social housing, because it would be said in a WhatsApp group in Lebanon that social housing would be available in the Netherlands, which would allow them to move this way. Those waiting lists have been a huge problem for a long time: people have to wait seven years on average and even nine years on average in Amsterdam. Even the Minister acknowledges that there are shortages. He writes to the Chamber that the Economic Institute for Construction has concluded that 2.7 million homes are needed, but only 2.6 million are available. Why does Mr Van der Linde not want to face the facts? Why doesn't he want to build quickly for the Dutch who are looking for a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr Bashir invites me to give an account of the Amsterdam housing market. I will. This housing market consists of 58% of social housing of corporations and private landlords. How many more houses do we have to build? Looking at this 58%, there are at least a quarter of them in Amsterdam. I'm not even talking about the 10% to 20% illegal sublet. Let's do something about that! You can't keep building, can you? The big problem in Amsterdam is free rent and not social rent. The SP alderman in Amsterdam also acknowledges this and works on it. I regularly visit commercial organizations in Amsterdam. They are not only signed on the tenant side five times for each project, but also on the funder side. They want to, there's money, so it's all possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	Just now no homes had to be built because people in Lebanon would tell about it; now the illegal sub-rentors are the problem. Then take it! But let's look at the facts. We've asked the Minister questions. He cites the Economic Institute for Construction. The facts show that there are 100,000 homes in short supply. I can refer to everything, but I'm just looking at the reality, the waiting lists and the shortage of 100,000 homes. It really amazes me that the VVD is looking away from that. The teacher for whom the VVD just wanted to come up, has been waiting for a home for seven years. When's he gonna get his place?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	It bothers me that Mr Bashir is selectively shopping from the EIB's data. If there is one advocate for more free rent, it is the EIB.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	The VVD's open border policy leads to enormous problems in the housing market. The VVD sees that too, but doesn't do anything about it. After all, borders remain open. This morning there is a big plan of the VVD in the newspaper: the status holders must go to stacked containers and old people's homes. At the same time, the VVD says that there appears to be no majority to stop the primacy regime. I think that majority might be there. Will the VVD come forward with a motion when that majority is present? If the VVD doesn't do that and says to demand it for those container homes, nothing happens at all. Mr Van der Linde is here, and he sees the problem, but then he does nothing about the solution. What does he say to all those people in the country who are furious in this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr Madlener apparently missed last Friday's letter. The use of containers is already cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	However, the priority regime for asylum seekers is still in place. The VVD says that this is not possible because otherwise there will be Dutch people living in those containers. The PvdA comes up with a plan to build 100,000 containers. For €25,000 you do not build much more than a glorified container. How can the VVD agree that the priority regime disappears and then comes up with nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	Maybe it's okay if I finish my speech now. I'm at the second paragraph and I have seven pages left.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	If you try to answer the question briefly, you can then proceed with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	I will put the question to the Minister just as I did last time. That's what I liked at the time. I'll ask the Minister to come forward with legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	That is very easy, but then Mr Van der Linde must also tell the Minister that he will pull the plug if he does not: we will stop and hold elections! He'd be a guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr Van der Linde now goes on with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	We see the people's problems here. We see the degrading conditions they've been through. For us too, we want to give these people safe shelter. But also a country with open borders has its limitations. We blow up our welfare state if we give every newcomer full access to social housing. I can explain a lot to a policeman, a teacher or a warehouse worker, but not that they're on a waiting list for years in front of a house and are then overtaken by a newcomer without any economic connection to the municipality. That is why we need to find alternatives outside the ordinary provision. They must be sober and safe. The Chamber asked the Minister last month to work out options. The beginning of the cabinet is now there. It is described in last Friday's letter. It is a provision, or an emergency regulation, to enable improvisational housing. Think of portakabins, vacant offices and innovative concepts. It is a good thing that the Minister also brings with him the empty buildings of the Empire, such as barracks and prisons. However, it is not yet the sharpness the VVD is looking for. First of all... Status holders are soberly housed outside social housing. As far as the VVD is concerned, this means that they do not still have access to a social housing. The mere fact that someone is dissatisfied with sober housing cannot be a reason to give an asylum seeker a social housing. Second. The Housing Act now makes provision for status holders to be declared automatically urgent, which, of course, automatically brings them into social housing at the expense of other people. I've made a point of this before. That has just been pointed out. Well, it's kind of wrinkled in the Minister's letter right now. Do I understand correctly that it applies to the legal urgency status when people are housed under the housing regulation? But what if there is no sober housing under the housing regulation? Are they going to become urgent and go into social housing? I ask the Minister to address both points, and in particular whether he is prepared to withdraw the urgency status from the law on the first occasion. That doesn't mean the waiting lists at the corporations haven't disappeared. I come to the point that I have already made during the interruption and which I can be brief about. We are eagerly looking forward to the bill announced by the Minister concerning temporary rent and the income test. The social rental sector should be available to the people with a small wallet. People who don't belong there should just flow through. So my specific question is: when can we expect this bill? I have already said something about the 10 to 20% illegal sublease of housing in Amsterdam. It is not just a question of subletment, but also of abuse of prostitution and hemp cultivation. That is not a new problem, but it needs to be addressed. I have already noted the support of the SP in this regard. The corporations must have the means to do so. Mr De Caluwé and I recently asked the Minister of BKZ a rather simple question: why can't a corporation consult the Municipal Basic Administration to see if it is consistent with the tenants' file? Minister Plasterk's staggering response was that this cannot be done, because a corporation is a commercial organization. It shouldn't get much crazier! With a few simple measures, corporations can quickly and effectively put an end to these abuses. Give them access to the population register. Link municipal data on Airbnb to tenant information. Destroy leases automatically in case of illegal sublet and move abroad. Will the Minister respond to that? Dutch people buy their first house later and later. They want to be able to easily track their work, either from job to job or from job to job. This has a major impact on the housing market. The demand for rentals in the free sector is rising sharply. There's a huge lack of homes in this segment. It is being built up, but this is happening very slowly and demand far exceeds supply, especially in large cities. We would like to emphasise the importance of mixed neighbourhoods in the Netherlands. In Amsterdam this gradually means: on the one hand millionaires in merchant houses and on the other hand only social tenants. There's almost nothing in between. In Rotterdam-Zuid there are not even these millionaires and all the benefits are expected from the housing corporations, which now account for half a billion in urban development. But where do the new entrepreneurs live in these cities? Where do the shopkeepers, the streamers, the yuppies live? There is more than enough money for investments in the Randstad, there are more than enough tenants, but the allocation of land is a big problem. In the meantime, corporation's land is being left unexploited. Municipalities have to give much more space to rent houses in the free sector and cheap properties. First of all, they should set this out in the housing vision they draw up annually. Does the Minister have any instruments to promote this? Then I'll go into the market myself. House owners have been going through a valley for the last seven years. This has led to far-reaching measures being taken by the Rutte I and II Cabinets. There is a clear framework for the mortgage interest deduction. Anyone who buys a house can see the financial consequences for many years. There's clarity about the amounts you can borrow. Those who opt for flexible working may take an average to determine their mortgage standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	I see Mrs Schouten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	I would like to comment on the previous point. The question was why private parties built so little in the municipalities. Mr Van der Linde says that this is due to the lack of policy of municipalities in the allocation of land. He asks the Minister to say boo or boo. However, these are also municipalities where the VVD is in the college. Why does the VVD not take action in the college of these municipalities itself? The VVD has its own aldermen in the municipalities who can take action. Why does this have to be done through the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	In Amsterdam, we do no different. In Amsterdam, my colleague Daniel van der Ree is constantly fighting for the development of the free rental sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	I think Mr Van der Linde's analysis is somewhat limited; perhaps it is. He says it's purely and exclusively from the allocation. I take Amsterdam as an example. Let's say you want to build. If you are insured somewhere with income from rental, then it is in Amsterdam. That's where the housing shortage is huge. Mr Van der Linde himself said: a plan is being crossed five times. It's not just about the allocation, is it? The issue is much wider, isn't it? Maybe we should all take a good look at that, but it's a little cheap to say that we have no problem and to leave the ball alone with the municipality. Is Mr Van der Linde prepared not only to put the ball at the municipality cheaply, but also to look at the problem of building or building by commercial parties with a greater perspective? The VVD is in the college itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	I would be happy to look at this subject as widely as possible. I assume that Mrs Schouten has a specific presentation. Let's just talk about that. She is right: I am now focusing on the vision of living. It follows from that view that land is allocated. That seems to me to be an important link. If Mrs Schouten has more ideas for driving the free-for-hire sector, I would like to hear them. I'm very open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr Van der Linde continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	The clarity of the buying market has contributed to a good recovery of the housing market. House prices have risen by almost 4% in a year. The number of transactions on the purchase market has increased by more than a quarter. Houses are also sold three weeks earlier than last year at this time. However, there is still a lot to do. The loan standards intended to provide security are tightened up a little more every year. The Nibud gave advice and officials in ministries turned some buttons afterwards. The result is that people who buy a house for the first time are stuck. I am referring in particular to the group that we regard as crooked, the group that we want to offer a view of a house of sale. I am committed to the impartial advice of the Nibud and I am pleased that this opinion will be made public this year. The VVD doesn't want to talk people into a mortgage if they can get into trouble by making a mortgage, but we can improve the system. I would like to make three specific points. Firstly, it is now 2015 and the second income of a couple is only counted 33% when applying for a mortgage. In other words, we still do not take the second job seriously. By doing so, we punish two earners and people who share the care tasks fairly. What is the problem of making income fully included in mortgage standards? Secondly, the Netherlands is the country of purchasing power. The Nibud knows all about it. You can't think of a family situation that doesn't fit into one of the dozens of boxes. But why are the mortgage standards of "one size fits all"? What if you're 45, you don't have kids, but you do have a double income? Why don't we ask Nibud to calculate more variants for different circumstances? Thirdly, the Nibud's opinion is now being made public. Can the Minister promise that we will get the cabinet advice so early that we can have a good discussion on it in good time? That brings me to the subject of state service. The VVD is for a compact, cost-effective and high-quality government; a government that deploys staff, expertise and resources in such a way that the best results for the Netherlands are achieved financially. The Compact National Service programme has been implemented rapidly. P&D is now publicly regulated, a third of the data centres are closed and the number of ICT providers has been reduced by three quarters. That is worth a compliment to the Minister and his officials. On two important points, the VVD makes further comments. Firstly, the targets to be achieved after the completion of the Compact National Service programme have been transferred to the various departments, while more and more work has to be done beyond the boundaries of the departments. Luckily, this network cooperation is becoming more and more common, but these targets must of course remain common. The Rob report Sturen and connect, which appeared last week, places a great deal of emphasis on joint responsibility. We also consider this unity to be important. Partly for this reason, the VVD would like the mission and monitoring of the results of Compact National Service to continue at aggregated level. Secondly, it is clear from the budget that the shared service organisation seems to be getting off the ground. The turnover of income tax agencies UBR, P-Direct and Logius is growing in the coming years. The contribution of the State Service to these agencies is falling accordingly. But with almost every change to a more compact organization, you can see the shared service organisation growing, and then the original organisation also grows cheerfully. That is what is threatening to happen here, and we must be vigilant. That's not gonna cut the empire's equipment costs. Of the necessary 4.1 billion in savings, only 1.4 billion would appear to have been achieved at the beginning of this year, due to some intensifications and the necessary external hiring, with the income-burden agencies such as Logius. That raises a number of questions. If these shared service organizations grow, do the activities in the departments decrease accordingly? Are employees from departments moving to those shared service organizations? We are now mainly seeing an increase in the external hire. Does the Minister see possibilities to replace the external hire with internal transfers in the long term? If not, why not? As mentioned above, the Compact National Service programme has been completed, but has not yet been completed. Therefore, the VVD considers it important to maintain good monitoring at a national level in order to keep up with the impact of the programme. Is the Minister prepared to continue the targets and monitoring of the results at aggregated level? Can he indicate the effects of the state service organisations on the benefits and burdens of the departments? At the end of last year, the Temporary Committee on ICT issued a destructive report on ICT projects in the government. The Minister has embraced most of the conclusions. The ICT Test Office, or BIT, has now been established. The VVD Group is curious about the results. We would also like to know when the first opinions of the BIT will be sent to the Chamber and whether a year after the report the measures taken have already led to project adjustments. We will continue to monitor these developments closely. Then I have a few more questions about the state buildings. Their sale is not as fast as planned due to the crisis and a surplus in the office market. The Minister states in the budget that vacancy may result in a declining income and expense balance. How does the accommodation of asylum seekers and status holders work in this post? Does the Minister have forecasts for the coming years and has he already taken account of asylum seekers and status holders? Then I have one more question, last but not least. The Justice Council postponed its decision on housing plans until the end of this year. Then this minister also comes with the modification of the national housing master plans. Does the Minister see any possibility of consulting with his colleague from the Justice Department in order to coordinate these plans?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	I would like to come back to the problems of receiving refugees. The test balloon in this morning's paper was punctured again. That's been rhetorical. Those words are being swallowed again, I notice. That's the second time in three weeks. However, the problem is there. We really have a problem in the housing market, in housing status holders, but also in housing people from stay-of-my-living homes. Minister Blok sent a letter last Friday with good practical solutions. Think of the vacant position at the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf and temporary emergency homes. The point, however, is that it remains with an intention. If the VVD really wants to solve problems, what it says it wants to do, can it give this minister a specific objective with which he can go? Can concrete numbers be mentioned? What concrete actions are being taken to ensure that these people have a real view of a house? Can Mr Van der Linde comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	I feel compelled to go into the beginning of the question. I have two words for Mr Koolmees and they say 'Azmani Plan'. When my colleague Azmani came up with a plan on housing in the region this spring, Mr Koolmees turned around, I see, and I understand that too, when the group chairman of D66 tweeted: "Bah, bah, bah, bah! New tax system is apparently too difficult, so creating a crisis atmosphere..." The problem is, we're having that crisis right now. Six months ago, D66 didn't want to face the problems. We are now six months ahead and the Azmani plan is now European policy. Now we have another problem. We must solve a problem with status holders in the short term. Mr Koolmees denies these problems. He's asking for numbers. I do not have these numbers for him, for the simple reason that the influx of refugees is currently out of control. We must face this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	It is quite ironic that Mr Van der Linde is now bringing up the Azmani plan. In this plan it was very tough that the boundaries should be closed, exactly as was stated in the newspaper this morning. Three weeks ago, during the General Political Reviews, Mr Zijlstra, as group chairman of the VVD, stated that these statements should not be taken so literally. It would be more of a figurative pronunciation, a direction of thought. Apparently, the rhetoric of the VVD penetrates all layers. I take the problems of receiving status holders and waiting lists in the rental sector very seriously. I therefore also want to see concrete actions by the Cabinet and the VVD, not just call and use tough words to take the wind out of the sails. I want to know what the VVD is going to do and what it can be asked to do to ensure that these people have a view of a home, so that they can work, integrate and participate in society instead of being locked up in an asylum-seekers' centre, without perspective. That's the point. I want to talk about concrete solutions to problems and not just about rhetoric, plans and test balloons. What is the VVD going to do to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	How much more concrete can the VVD be? We do not want status holders to end up in social housing. We do not want these people to be declared urgent. I can't be any clearer. The cabinet has come up with an alternative: sober but safe housing in existing real estate. How much more specific do you want it to be? The only thing I'm missing in the story is if D66 wants to face the problems and support the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	I want to face the problem very much, even more so, I face it. I think we should find a solution to this. That's one. Secondly, we had a debate on it three weeks ago. Then Mr Van der Linde came up with the same point. The Minister for Housing and National Service, who is also from the VVD, said at that time that it was not a good idea, that the horse would be put behind the cart. It's expensive, it's bad integration and it prevents people from going to work. Now, three weeks later, Mr Van der Linde comes up with the same test balloon, with the same tough language, but he doesn't want to mention a specific purpose and say how he's going to solve the problem. I haven't heard a bigger you-bowl.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	Somewhere Mr Koolmees is trying to create a huge cloud to what has happened in three weeks. Last Friday we received a letter. There's not a word of Spanish in there. There is talk of shelter in portacabins and existing real estate. To save money, the cost sharing standard is applied. Are these not concrete measures? Then come up with a better plan! We'll find out soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	I have listened carefully to Mr Van der Linde and I do not have the perspective on this point. He's talking about status holders. Those are people who have been accepted as temporary or political refugees. They are therefore allowed to stay in the Netherlands for the time being. If they stay in the Netherlands for five years, they have the opportunity to be naturalized and thus become Dutch. For the short term we can solve something with an emergency solution, but over the longer term I do not hear the VVD. The problem remains. Those people are about to be entitled to a social housing facility, but we don't have those apartments. What prospects does Mr Van der Linde outline for the coming period? Are we gonna build? Are we gonna stop selling? Are we gonna do something or are we just gonna look away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	The perspective I am suggesting to Mr Bashir is that I hope that people who are temporarily housed here because they come from a war country, such as Syria, can return to that country. I wouldn't know how to rebuild Syria if those people don't go back. Those people belong there. Of course, if we can't, then we're going to look for other solutions, but we have a system of temporary housing. The idea is that we allow people to go back to their own country. That is why we also attach such importance to reception in the region, because if you stay in the region, you will be back sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	In my view, Mr Van der Linde is talking about two different issues, namely asylum seekers who may be admitted to the region and status holders, recognised refugees who may remain in the Netherlands. If these status holders are allowed to stay in the Netherlands and assume Dutch nationality, they will be granted the same rights as Dutch citizens and then they would like to move on to, for example, a social housing. We're short on that kind of housing. Then what does the VVD do about it? What we now hear from the VVD is only wishful thinking that these people are going back to their own country massively, but there is no reason to assume that at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	At least for the long term, the Azmani plan provides for the extension of reception in the region. That should take some of the pressure off our hands. That is not the pressure of the people who are currently coming to the Netherlands. If these people are to stay, they will be able to claim a permanent residence permit at some point, but they will also participate in the economic process. Then they have a job and are not dependent on social housing and then they can also be housed in a different way. For example, they can buy their own house. That's also a possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	The VVD calls for the priority scheme for status holders for social housing, while thousands of status holders are currently being placed in social housing. You want to stop that, and I get that because we want to stop it. But what if your government doesn't intend to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	Well, let's just wait and see the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	I think that's a little too easy. Those thousands of rental homes that are withdrawn from the social rental stock lead to enormous tensions in the Netherlands; you can see the images on TV of people who are really distraught. They're on a waiting list for years. You can see the problem, of course, caused by your own policy of open borders which you do not want to do anything about. You also come here with tough language of "we're gonna fix that for those people." If you use that tough language here, I'll ask you what you're going to do if the cabinet refuses to stop that assignment immediately. What else do you have to offer for the people in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	Large parts of that housing have already been arranged. That's government policy already. But what do you expect me to say in the first term: then we will send the cabinet home? No, we're gonna work really hard on a solution. That's our assignment here. Even if I still disagree with Mr De Vries on where we should go, this cabinet has been in worse hands. So there's gonna be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	We all know last night's footage in the Netherlands where a small community already receives 700 refugees; there is still a very large group up there. There is now a lot of pressure on the acz's to ensure flow because there are a lot of refugees coming in. So it's actually a bit of a waterbed effect; in one place you press and in the other place the problem arises again. That is also the case here. There is now more pressure on the housing market because many more status holders need to flow very quickly. Does Mr Van der Linde agree with me that government policy should be much more focused on achieving smaller-scale, longer-term reception for status holders and refugees, so that they can also be taken longer in a particular region, where municipalities can create support for their community and not be under any pressure to live? Is Mr Van der Linde prepared to look with me to see if we can go much more towards this kind of shelter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	I do not yet have a clear view of the scale of the provision of care. We're talking about a volume problem right now. It's about 14,000 people. It is obvious to find a volume solution as well. I think about dome prisons in the middle of a city and barracks, where you can very quickly house people. That's okay. In the long run, all kinds of solutions will have to be found, because the tasks for the municipalities will not change.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	There are quite a few municipalities that also apply to our own municipality of Rotterdam, I would add that they have indicated that they really want to accommodate people, but that they want to do so in several places in smaller groups. They do not want mass shelter, precisely because of its viability and its support. I get that feeling. If we can achieve much more smaller shelters, this will reduce the pressure of the status holders on the housing market. This way we can reduce the problem. However, I do not hear Mr Van der Linde arguing for this himself, when his own municipality is asking for it, as do other municipalities. I make this proposal and hope that Mr Van der Linde will take a serious look at it, because the problem of COA is now becoming the problem of this minister. I think we should look at it in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	I think it's a nice thought. It is up to the municipalities to shape this shelter. My point is that I want this to happen outside of social housing. If small scale works better, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	That's news, because last week the VVD said she didn't want to. That was in an asylum debate, by the way. I have a question about the 14,000 people who are now in asylum-seekers' centres. What is the solution of the VVD in the short term for these people? Mrs Schouten has a good point with her reference to the situation in Orange. If we don't come up with solutions for the short term, you'll always have to opt for patchwork; then you'll have to choose solutions like the ones in the Dutch Team. We all know that that's what ruins support. So what is the solution of the VVD in the short term for those 14,000 people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	We've been through this a few times. This is exactly what last Friday's letter is about: existing real estate must be made available as soon as possible. If I do have it, a number of prisons can already be involved and may need some minor adjustments in some other buildings. That must be done in the short term. It's not gonna work to take those 14,000 people in the social sector. We just don't have that many places right now. I wouldn't be responsible for the consequences if we were to enforce them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	The Minister sent a list of 31 buildings to the Chamber last Friday. However, the corporations say that they cannot take on the management of these 31 premises at market prices. If the Empire takes on the realization of the adjustments and retains the property, the corporations want to manage those premises. Is that something Mr Van der Linde is thinking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	As long as these buildings do not become part of the social stock, that seems to me to be an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr Van der Linde spoke about dome prisons. I believe that the prisons that were empty are already largely full of refugees. He always refers to the Minister's letter of solutions. I recognise that there are very good things in it, and I shall come back to this later in my speech, but the bill that goes with it is partly passed on to the municipalities and finally returned to the citizens. The question is whether it is right that in these times, in which we allocate 600 million extra for the influx of refugees, you should pay the housing costs of these people to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr Ronnes should actually put that question to the Minister. I do not find it so strange that the existing tasks are laid down in the municipalities according to a fixed distribution key. They see much better what is possible locally and what local customization they can deliver. I think that is a very understandable system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	Mr Van der Linde refers to the Minister, but I am asking the VVD Group. What does the VVD Group think about the cost of taking all the additional measures being passed on to all these citizens? I think that the task that lies there is almost impossible for the municipalities, which are already struggling with all the tasks that come to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	We agree it costs a lot of money. I'm highly recommended for better plans. Of course, what's important is that the cost sharing standard is applied immediately from the moment you give people shelter together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr Van der Linde, have you completed your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	I've got seven minutes left, but I'm out of line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	You can use it in second term. You have that right. The colleagues in your group may also like it if you have more time. This is also the case in other groups. I call Mr Ronnes. I think this is his first budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. It is true that this is my first budget debate. Today's budget for Housing and National Service is on the agenda. In the first two years of this cabinet, the minister showed himself ambitious. The Minister's agenda has now hit visible army. This offers opportunities to change priorities, especially as the pain points of the policy are getting worse as a result of the increase in the asylum influx. Speaking of pain points, the CDA sees the level of landlord tax in recent years as an important cause of the problems in the rental sector. First of all, I would like to mention the allocation of rentals. It's totally jammed. As a result of the increase in the number of residents, there is much more demand for rental homes while the supply is limited. The current influx of refugees creates tension in the rental market. This leads to an unsustainable situation. The regulated system is being hopelessly disrupted. It is rightly seen as unfair by people who have been waiting for years for a rental house to be replaced on the waiting list. The CDA has already signaled that the Minister is not tackling this problem vigorously enough. The support for asylum policy in the Netherlands is therefore reduced. We have proposed a number of measures to the Minister in this context. If the roof is leaking, you need to fix it right away and don't let it run for weeks or months. The measures we have proposed: - more residents in a home; - screening of vacant buildings of the Empire so that they may be used; - remove the flow of refugees from the regulated allocation process through the solution of a swap house, starting from: should the refugee remain permanently in the Netherlands, he will be on a normal waiting list and will not be identified as urgent; - stimulate the involvement of private landlords; - additional budget to municipalities in order to achieve the task in this area; - as an emergency measure: stop temporarily selling housing by corporations. Last Friday, the Minister's statement came. The letter we received at the time is largely in line with what we advocated earlier. Many proposals put forward by the CDA are being taken up in concrete terms. This is happening too late and too slowly, but we appreciate the approach that has been taken. Gas on it, I'd say. Continue in the highest gear, because all those parts contribute to at least a softening of the problem. We still have a few questions. What does the Minister mean by the phrase that not only status holders can rely on the new measures? Does the Minister also refer the private landlords to their responsibility in this regard? Is he prepared to come up with an exemption from the landlord's tax on swap houses, as we advocated earlier, just like the exception for the conversion of office buildings introduced last year? The question of compensation to municipalities has not yet been resolved. A large part of the account of the solutions is transferred to the municipalities. That is what we have just discussed. That's not solving, it's moving forward. Can the Minister make the fees financially clear and also respond to my questions? One final comment on this part of my speech. If we do not ensure that our allocation system continues to work for all the other people looking for housing in the social housing sector, we will never be able to solve the housing problem, which is now falling apart. The support for refugee policy will also decrease by the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	I have taken note of the CDA's plan to put more asylum seekers in one house. Is that true?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	That's right. We want to make it possible to put not one or two refugees in a home, but more refugees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	I think that's weird. The Netherlands is flooded with asylum seekers through the open border policy. The CDA doesn't want to change that. The CDA says, "Come on in, everybody." The CDA then places more asylum seekers in one house. I see a lot of trouble. I'm picking up insecurity. You'll only have one house next to a place like this and suddenly four testosterone bombs live next door to you. That's absurd, isn't it? That's unthinkable, isn't it? That leads to accidents!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	The CDA has indicated that the problem needs to be tackled at its root, but we cannot close our eyes to today's reality. There are refugees on our doorstep right now. You're gonna have to figure it out. However, the CDA believes that the regulated allocation policy for Dutch people who have been on the waiting list for a long time should continue undisturbed. The refugees need emergency services, as suggested in the Minister's letter, in response to what we mentioned here a few weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked what the CDA says to all those people who live next door to those testosterone bombs. You'll only live next door to a house full of asylum seekers, when you don't even know what's happening next to you!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	Your question is clear. Mr. Ronnes can respond if he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u100	We will have to ensure that we receive those we wish to receive in a good way. We will have to find firm support for this in society. The example of yesterday, when 700 refugees are added, does not seem to us to be the right way forward. My colleague, Mr Oskam, will come back to this in another context. Then I come to the affordability of homes. A social lease agreement has been concluded between Aedes and the House Union, because the annual rent increase caused by the Minister was still awesome. I congratulate these authorities on taking the initiative to limit the rent increase and to link the rental price more closely to the quality of the property. It's a nice chord, but there are also disadvantages. The main drawbacks are that it hinders corporations in the ability to invest and does nothing about crooked housing. Aedes and the House Union are coming up with an investigation into crooked living. The need to do something about crooked housing, in addition to the rent-based approach, makes sense. But what? The debate on this is a bit difficult, because we do not yet know the results of that investigation. Is there going to be an annual check on income? Is the Minister going to wait for suggestions from Aedes and the House Union? Is he really gonna do this? I'm coming to the landlord's tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u101	Before you go any further, I see that Mr Van Vliet has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr Ronnes asked if the Minister would wait for suggestions from Aedes and the House Union. We have conducted a parliamentary survey, from which far-reaching conclusions have emerged. I'll come back to that myself later. One aspect was that we have believed dogmatically in self-regulation for a very long time. This has led to many housing corporations doing things they shouldn't have done. In particular, the umbrella organisation Aedes has played a not too fresh role in the past. I dare say that here, because it is also in our final report far from home. If we all know this, why does the Minister now have to wait for suggestions from that angle instead of keeping the initiative with ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u103	It is not automatic that the Minister takes over these proposals one-on-one. The agreement agreed that this investigation would be carried out. I want to know clearly whether the Minister is waiting for that outcome or whether, in anticipation, he is working on other alternatives. For the first time in the state budget, the Minister explicitly expresses the desire to increase the proceeds from the landlord's tax to 2 billion euros in 2018 and to allow them to continue in the years after. This is in flagrant contradiction with the objectives previously stated and the agreements with the Upper House. How serious is the promised evaluation in 2016? It would be a fundamental evaluation. The CDA considers that it is only after that evaluation that the landlord's tax should be decided in full width. Let us not get ahead of ourselves. How does the Minister explain this shift? Has this been discussed with the housing corporations? The Minister expects to raise €1.6 billion of landlord tax in 2016. In 2014, the landlord levy raised 38 million euros more than budgeted, according to the State's Annual Financial Report. In 2015 and 2016, revenues are expected to be higher than budgeted. We estimate that over these three years there will be a budget that may amount to EUR 100 million, in the case of a minister without a portfolio. We call for revenue from the landlord's levy, which is higher than budgeted, to go back to the sector so that it can be used to stimulate the flow of the housing market. We are thinking of a flow-through loan, which supports crooked residents, who want to move on to the purchasing sector. What does the Minister think of such a thought? The grant exemption is my next point. It is a good thing that the cabinet does not take any new measures which once again curtailed the recovery of the housing market. There is only one measure that can strengthen the housing market: the increase in the grant exemption for the purchase of a property as of 1 January 2017. Why the measure does not start until 2017, is unclear to us. From the point of view of workability, both for the donor and for the Tax Administration, the CDA advocates its introduction as of 1 January 2016. Will the Minister cooperate in this? We are considering tabling an amendment to the budget. Then I'll get to the part where I shrink. The Empire slowly withdraws from the shrinking file. What role does the Minister still see for himself in the shrinking dossier? We see a retreating minister, but a problem that is getting bigger. Literally, it says in the budget: after that, the shrinking regions are supposed to be able to tackle the problem of shrinkage independently. However, in our view, it is procedurally wrong to say that after 2019 shrinking regions will have to deal with the issue independently, but only to evaluate the approach by 2020. We think it is logical that decisions on the continuation or adjustment of the shrinkage policy should also be based on that evaluation. Can the Minister endorse this conclusion and view? Then I'll get to the energy agreement. This has ten pillars. One of them is the built environment. That's what this minister's move is. The energy agreement speaks of a combination of information and awareness, relief and funding support. We would like to hear what the Minister has done on these three points and what he intends to do. Our impression is that it is very quiet in that area. We are pleased that the National Energy Saving Fund has been launched. This fund provides for the financing of energy-saving measures in residential housing. In our view, we are still not achieving enough results with this fund. Does the Minister agree with us that an extra boost or incentive is needed to increase the use of the fund? Then I have a few loose ends, Mr. Chairman. A component such as the LTI standard...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u104	I see that another chairman has been appointed. As far as the LTI standard is concerned, the CDA requests the Minister to consider whether outside the tight Nibud standards you can no longer look at a person's life career expectations instead of always sitting hard on an indicator of for example 4.5, as is the case now. My final point concerns the state service section. We see that a great many regions are currently being heavily burdened with the issue of refugee policy. On the other hand, the government is withdrawing from these areas with employment. The question is whether it would not be wise to consider the shrinking regions when the state service can stay or be relocated somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Chairman. Where previous cabinets did not dare, this cabinet has finally intervened in the runaway housing market. The mortgage interest rate deduction is reduced gradually. The corporations have been put back on their core tasks, with much more influence for municipalities and tenants. Houses are reallocated appropriately. In spite of the crisis, the rent premium remains proud and the Donner Points have been abolished. Soon the rent increase will be limited with the introduction of the rent sum approach. This provides a basis for balancing the housing market in the coming years. However, this balance is already becoming regionally disturbed. In large cities, the purchase prices are again very high. The waiting times are due to all kinds of causes. The housing shortage is close to 300,000 in 2020. If we don't intervene, the house seeker's gonna be screwed for the next few years. The Labour Party therefore believes that action is needed to prevent people from getting into trouble. We see four problems. Firstly, there is a large shortage of affordable social housing. Look at the waiting lists. By increasing the allocation limit and demographics, the target group for the social rental sector is increasing. Large numbers of status holders will have to be housed in the coming years. I don't want other people looking for their homes to suffer. The stock needs to be temporarily larger, for all house seekers. The second problem we see is the lack of an offer for middle incomes, so for people with an income from €38,950. There are far too few rentals in the free sector, homes with a rent between €700 and about €950. Despite the low interest rates, the buying market is not accessible to many or buying is not a good solution. The crook might want to get out of his social housing, but where's he gonna go? Moving from a property with a rent of €600 to a property with a rent of €1,200 per month is really too gritty for most people. You can't just ask people to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u106	The Labour Party also specifically mentions the shortage of social housing as a problem. The CDA has already argued for a discount on the landlord's tax for two budget periods. This could generate investment capacity for corporations with which they could create additional housing. The waiting lists for social housing were also long back then. Even before the refugee problem took serious forms, the waiting lists for rental homes were long ago. The coalition parties now seem to be using this refugee problem as some sort of smokescreen. Even before these problems arose, people had been on such a waiting list for seven years on average. What's changed now? Why does the Labour Party now opt for measures? When the CDA proposed a discount on the landlord's tax in recent years to achieve additional capacity, the PvdA put its head in the sand for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u107	The fact is that the housing market has been locked for some time because of the crisis. Many households who did want to join the housing market have postponed this because they had financial problems. Now that the financial crisis is resolved, demand is increasing. So now that waiting time is really becoming manifest. Now people are really waiting for a rental house and they really want one tomorrow. Low time there was some delay in those waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u108	Previously, people were on a waiting list for an average of seven years. Maybe now, due to the different problems, they should be on such a waiting list for nine years before they get assigned a place. A few months ago, the average waiting period was seven years. I conclude that the Labour Party was not of the opinion that an average seven-year waiting list was actually too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u109	Of course we find these waiting times too long. There should be no waiting time anyway. That is why we are now coming up with plans to do something about it. We also needed that landlord's tax in this country to get things back together. The fact that we have done so has such positive effects on the housing market. Mr Ronnes can find the instrument bluntly, but it worked. But according to my group, the waiting lists are really getting out of hand and we really need to take action now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u110	Waiting lists are getting out of hand. Of course, that has a lot to do with all those asylum seekers. That's the problem the PvdA sees. Will it continue to give priority to asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u111	No, we think that's unwise. In my group's view, we must ensure that all people in this country have access to social housing. That is why we should add large volumes to the stock. We do not think that the current task is really desirable. We believe that we should move away from the task of giving priority to housing people in the existing social stock. However, this can only be done if we temporarily add sufficient other homes. I assume the PVV is a warm supporter of our plan. This means that the Dutch who have been waiting for a long time for a social rental home will also have a chance at that housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u112	I know how long it takes to build a house. That's not gonna happen tomorrow. The problems are, however, at the moment. I like to hear clear language. I just heard the spokesperson of the VVD say that he also wants to get rid of that priority arrangement. The PvdA actually says the same thing now, but no butter comes to the fish. The people are standing in line for such a house today and they see that rental homes are allocated to asylum seekers. That's unacceptable, isn't it? Is the PvdA willing to stop allocating social housing to status holders immediately?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u113	The Labour Party believes that we now need to add homes to the stock very quickly. We propose to add temporary homes at locations that already have a construction destination. That can happen very quickly, because those prefab houses are really there in a few days. Of course, it takes some time. We also want this to be done on a small scale. We do not want mass construction of these temporary dwellings in the neighbourhoods of the people. We want to spread them across the country and we want it to be supported. If that succeeds, the places in the azc's will be released and we will not have to take emergency measures on such a large scale throughout the country. That's our plan and that's what we're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u114	I read the PvdA Group's plan. The PvdA Group wants to build 700,000 homes in the next 15 years. We have looked at how many houses have been built in recent years. In the last 11 years, 700,000 homes have also been built. In fact, the PvdA Group's plan therefore means a delay in construction. In the last 11 years, 700,000 homes have been built. The PvdA now wants to spend 15 years building 700,000 homes. Is it true that Mr De Vries is actually trying to slow down construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u115	That's a curious conclusion. We want to use temporary homes with a life span of 15 years to remove friction from the current shortage and the construction of sufficient housing. We can't do that fast enough. Let's build those 700,000 homes fast. The practice is, however, that some 40,000 to 50,000 homes are now being built each year. This means that we are moving far too slowly towards a situation in which there are enough homes. There is therefore a need for action, including in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u116	If we look at the past 11 years, we can see that 700,000 homes have been built. In the periods before that, there have even been years in which 80,000 to 100,000 homes were built per year. Over the next 15 years, the PvdA wants to build 700,000 homes. I come to the conclusion that this is a delay. I have no choice but to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr Bashir is holding on to those 15 years. We say we want temporary homes for 15 years. We absolutely want to put pressure on these 700,000 homes; they must be there as soon as possible. If we can do it in ten years, we'll have to do it in ten years. I am simply not so optimistic with the current paces that we will get it going very quickly. We also need to be realistic. At least it needs to be done as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u118	I was a little confused by Mr De Vries' reply to Mr Madlener's question. Mr Madlener asked: is the PvdA in favour of the VVD's plan this morning not to put status holders on the urgency list? There was no clear answer to that. Can Mr De Vries go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u119	The VVD and the PvdA are much more than suggested. We are facing a huge problem and we must put our hands on it together. This cabinet has faced very serious problems, and this problem too is really going to solve it. That includes adding homes. By doing so, we prevent status holders from expelling Dutch house seekers, because they are also on long waiting lists. The difference with the VVD is that the PvdA not only wants to house the status holders, but also wants to keep a lot of space for other house seekers. That may be temporary, because we see that the housing market will be more balanced in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u120	I totally agree with that. I very much agree with what Mr De Vries has said: there will have to be more offers to provide accommodation, including for people who are now on a waiting list; people who are staying out of my homes but also just people who are looking for a home. I very much agree with that. However, the plan of the VVD this morning was something else, namely to start removing people from that urgency list right now. Is the PvdA in favour of that? I can hardly imagine that the PvdA is going to devote warm words to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u121	We are in favour of solutions for the status holders. Those 11,000 or 13,000 people who are now in those azc's need help as soon as possible. We want to move as quickly as possible to a stage where we can do so without prioritising them in the existing stock. That's where we need to go. With the VVD we still have a little discussion about whether investment in prisons and empty buildings is profitable. These seem to be very short-term solutions. Isn't it better to come up with good solutions right away on the basis of those temporary homes that we are proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u122	I can also imagine that the buildings that are now empty will be converted into structural housing. Status holders, as well as students and other people on the list, can live there. That would also be a solution. Do I understand correctly that the PvdA just indicated: yes, we want the 13,000 people who are now in the asylum-seekers' centres to be housed without making use of the priority scheme? How would you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u123	I'll start with your first question. We very much agree with you there. Of course, good housing can be built in offices, but not all offices are equally suitable. I can imagine that there will be a number of emergency measures. But we really do see good in the government's plan to quickly create a stock where the 13,000 asylum seekers who are in the azc's can go. Then it will not be at the expense of the existing stock. As long as that is not settled, the people should stay in the azc's or maybe move to a regular home. We believe that in the very short term you will have sufficient opportunities to house the status holders in the additional stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u124	I understand, but I very much hope that I misunderstood that. It is the cabinet's proposal: here you have 31 properties that corporations can buy and rent at market prices. But that's going to cost a lot of money, of course. Does the Labour Party therefore think that we should say: those buildings offered by the cabinet I have a longer list, here in The Hague alone, a rich authority is going to adapt, so that people can live there? The stock can then be managed by the corporations. Then it really becomes a realistic plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u125	The latter is already mentioned in the Minister's letter: corporations will soon be able to manage these premises. I also have questions about the first, because I do not see these investments becoming profitable immediately. If they are not profitable, it is very difficult to finance them. I'll ask you about that. In our plan this is much easier, because if you build temporary homes between €25,000 and €40,000 with a closing business case, you can do so via regular financing. According to the construction industry, there are closing business cases to be made for the construction of temporary homes, so that other than corporations can invest in them. That is why we see more of these solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u126	I always find it interesting when we come up with proposals to solve problems. I have therefore read with interest the PvdA's proposal. But I do have a few big questions. The piece suggests that municipalities, market parties and housing corporations have some kind of reluctance to build more. Is that my reasoning correct? Why would a corporation start building if, for example, it doesn't have more cash flow?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u127	First of all, we see municipalities struggling with their land companies. They have land, but it's hard for them to sell that land at low prices. There must be some incentive or incentive. light compulsion. That is why we believe that the task of municipalities should be reversed from allocation in the existing stock to expansion of the stock, including by making building lots available. Would you like to repeat the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u128	Isn't it true that corporations no longer build because they lack resources? Or is it only unwillingness, as Mr De Vries suggests?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u129	The target groups for temporary housing are the core business of the corporations. They recognize that, too. A lot of corporations can still invest. A few can't. Municipalities that have such a corporation within their municipal boundaries could look with the neighboring municipalities to see how they can solve the targets together by engaging another corporation. I think we can do that in practice. Aedes also recognises that this is a core business for the corporations and that resources can be found to do so, provided the risks are covered by collateral. We have an arrangement for that, so it has to be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u130	I think Mr De Vries has some nice plans, but he's laying down all the accounts with someone else. He pays the bill to the municipalities, who have to write off very hard at once on their land companies, what the citizen is going to feel around the pools or other things. He says to the corporations, it's your job, so build it. I come across quite a lot of corporations that recognize that, but they don't have the resources. Will Mr De Vries deliver the financial paragraph immediately so that we can see who is going to pay what?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u131	The answer to that last question is really not that complicated. Of course, we have been in contact with all kinds of organisations, such as VNG, Aedes and the Housing Union. According to the corporations, this is just to be financed, except for a single exception of a corporation that has little liquid resources. For the most part, this is just regular financing. Some municipalities have downgraded their land so that it is no problem to offer it now at low cost. Other municipalities have done less, but that account would have come another time. It is wise that we should now ask municipalities to make those grounds available where the need is greatest. And that need is really high. Not only of the status holders, but also of all those Dutch who are looking for a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u132	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u133	I had already formulated two problems. The third problem is the fact that we see that old times are resurrected. In some parts of the country there is again scarcity in the housing market. As a result, prices are rising. Of course that's nice when your house is underwater and you get over it, but in some cities we're already flying out of the bend. This is how we see the land speculation in Amsterdam strike again. Houses are sold up to 15% above the asking price and a tenant does not find a decent house below €1,200. People looking for housing are really screwed. The fourth problem is that there are too many houses in shrinking areas on balance. The changing housing market still makes it scarce in the cheap rental market, but in another part of the housing market, in private housing, there is increasing surpluses. This leads to distressing situations: houses are getting further and further underwater, houses are frantic because people can no longer borrow money for maintenance and empty positions that occur after the death of the last resident. Creative solutions have been devised for the problem in the shrinking areas in Groningen, Limburg and Zeeuws-Vlaanderen. We ask the Minister to help implement these solutions. For the first three problems, there is only one solution: to build up. The Labour Party proposes to add 100,000 temporary homes and to make every effort for 15 years to build 700,000 homes. Only with these numbers will we solve the scarcity. We gotta hit the waiting lists!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u134	Finish your sentence, Mr De Vries. I don't know how far you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u135	I can do an extra paragraph. The task that municipalities now have for housing status holders in the existing stock, we would like to turn into a task to add cheap living space for all house seekers. This can be done in vacant buildings and through creative solutions, as the Minister stated in his letter to the Chamber last week. The only question is how he intends to finance this and how profitable these plans will ultimately be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u136	I'm gonna see who was first on the interrupting microphone. That was Mr Van Vliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u137	You can hear him, but you can't see him! I would like to thank Mr De Vries for his attention to the shrinking areas in his speech. I will have that in my speech later. I would only say: butter with the fish! The differentiation on the housing market in shrinking areas he describes, as in Limburg, is correct. You need social rentals and there are waiting lists there. The problem, however, is in the sales market. It's stuck. But if you want to develop instruments for this, and if you ask the Minister to apply those instruments to help the housing market in the shrinkage areas where shrinkage is really a big issue, is Mr De Vries prepared to put butter on the fish? Is he willing to think along with those instruments, such as differentiation in the landlord tax? I say "rental tax." Everyone talks about "rental tax," but it doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u138	We have learned that last lesson several times from Mr Van Vliet, so I am not trying to make that mistake again. I fully agree with him that there are major problems in the shrinking areas. Those problems are really in private stock. I have already mentioned the examples of this. What is so beautiful now is that in Groningen, Limburg and Zeeuws-Vlaanderen solutions have been devised where the corporations are needed. Those are not solutions at the expense of the tenants. Through the corporations a solution is offered, which can also deal with the distressing cases, namely the people who are deeply in debt because the value of the home continues to decline. These are solutions to which the current system of deduction of the landlord levy applies in the shrinking areas. In this respect, Mr Van Vliet is being served at his beck and call, because that arrangement is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u139	I also asked for this arrangement to be extended once. There are further initiatives in shrinking areas, to dare to differentiate further with the landlord levy. If other ideas are put forward from the Chamber to really help those shrinking areas, is the PvdA prepared to think along?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u140	We also dream at night about how to proceed with the landlord's tax. I'll come back to that later in my story. Mr Van Vliet will have to see if he can find sufficient points of reference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u141	Mr De Vries started this block again with the words that the PvdA believes that it should be built. That's wonderful, but I keep saying he's still moving the bill to the municipalities. He says: municipalities have the grounds for too high values in the books, they have to write down on them and then there is construction. However, it is a fact that the bill will then lie with the inhabitants of that municipality. Municipalities also receive an annual audit. It looks at how real the values used in the land holding are. There can be no large surplus. How can Mr De Vries here, with the wallet of the municipalities in his hands, distribute money? He's actually saying, "We're going to build houses and we'll pay you for that, municipalities."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u142	We are in favour of the municipalities simply getting a real land price that fits in with a social housing. That was always their job. So nothing new is actually happening. They also have a lot of land, but some municipalities haven't downgraded it to the level at which they can do it one-on-one. We think it's time we did. The municipality of Lansingerland has written off tens of millions. The municipality of Apeldoorn and the municipality where I come from, have written off really large amounts. So they are trying to bring that value back to a normal level. A municipality has to create space for its inhabitants to build homes if they need to. That's gotta be normal, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yeah, but I don't think it's right to come up with solutions here and to charge them to the municipalities. I think that Mr De Vries is rather quick to conclude that there are a lot of municipalities that do not have a good record of things. That seems strange to me, because there is an audit every year. It also addresses the question of how real these values are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u144	Indeed, the latest report on this subject states that most municipalities are doing well. It won't be such a problem there. There are some municipalities that have done enough. A question has just been asked to me. It seems to me that now would be a good time for these municipalities to adjust and do so, in order to help their own inhabitants. The normal rates that we have always used for the social rental sector must be applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u145	I think it is a nice story and a nice plan, because you want the waiting lists to be addressed, that there should be a build-up and that the problems in the housing market and the flow of people should be addressed. Here's what I'm wondering. Mr De Vries himself said that it is nothing new. Municipalities can do this already. In fact, they should do this. On the other hand, housing corporations, at least most, have the money to just do it. So what is the new part of the Labour Party's plan on top of what we are already doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u146	The new part is that, like Mr Koolmees, we see that it is not self-evident. The volume is the problem. That is why we are proposing to change the remit of municipalities. The current task is to give priority to status holders in the existing stock. We want municipalities to be given the task of expanding the number of homes and ensuring a considerable amount of new, temporary social housing. We say, "Make sure you do that rapido."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u147	The concrete appeal to the cabinet is therefore to mention a specific number and to distribute it among the municipalities. Mr De Vries therefore wants to see what is being done over the next two or ten years to achieve new construction. So that's the concrete plan, and that doesn't cost money?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u148	I have already said, in response to a previous interruption, that we have talked to various parties. The calculations are, of course, draft calculations and quick calculations show that you have to be able to do this with the normal instruments of securing and a cheap land price, which is also normal. As with the current task, that is all it takes to trigger and perhaps force these municipalities to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u149	I'm just gonna come back to my interrupting earlier. It really says that 700,000 homes will be built in the next 15 years. However, what I also read is that these 700 000 homes must be both residential and free-sector homes. We are talking here all the time about the shortage of social housing. I just got a quote from the minister. The Economic Institute for Construction says that there is a shortage of 100,000 homes in the social rental sector. I therefore ask Mr De Vries why he does not opt for social housing in these permanent homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u150	We've also seen the number of the 100,000. We are therefore proposing to add 100,000 homes to the stock. We just think we can do this temporarily. If we manage to get construction started in the more expensive rental segment in particular, we are talking about rents from €700 to €950. That flow is now out of the question. The rents are getting higher, but people who want to move to another home hardly have a choice. Those apartments just aren't here. For some people access to the market is closed or the buying market is not a good option because they work here and there. We think a very large part of the solution lies in realizing some more expensive rentals. We also have questions about this to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u151	It is good that Mr De Vries has also read the paper on the 100,000 social housing that we are currently lacking. It is good that temporary housing needs to be built, but this does not solve the problem that will arise in a number of years' time. After all, the shortage of social housing remains. I find it really incomprehensible that the PvdA now chooses to build only for the buying sector and the free sector, while so many people are waiting for a home. The average waiting period is seven years. That problem will not be solved if the temporary homes are removed in 15 years' time. My question to Mr De Vries is therefore whether he is prepared to allow a substantial part of the 700,000 homes that are being built to be social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr Bashir obviously did not quite hear what I said at first. In view of the distribution of income in the Netherlands, in our opinion there are in principle more than enough social housing. We may well allow people with a slightly higher income to live in a social housing unit for a while, but we do expect that there will be a flow and that the need for the realization of new social housing will be considerably reduced. If the flow gets going, these are the more expensive rentals needed. In our opinion, there will be enough homes. This has always been the starting point in the new housing plans. We want to serve as well as Mr Bashir the people who want social housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u153	The immigration policy of the PvdA has made whole neighbourhoods in the Netherlands unliveable. As a result, all disadvantaged areas have arisen. We're still stuck with the fried pears. Now the PvdA, this time together with the VVD, has opened the borders again. Now the PvdA says that 100,000 cheap cabins of €25,000 are being built. They're gonna be some kind of camp, some kind of barracks. What's this supposed to look like? They're just gonna be ghettos, aren't they? Where are they supposed to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u154	Our plan says that the cheapest solution costs €25,000, but of course there are also solutions that cost a little more. If Mr Madlener takes the trouble to talk to the construction industry, then those people can show him that there are really full-fledged homes to be made at these prices. These are homes that comply with the construction decision, which have an EPC of 0.4, which is fully compliant, and are therefore energy efficient. There are plenty of business cases to make for that. I even agree with Mr Madlener that we should be careful to make too large concentrations of this. Hence our plan to do so throughout the country, in smaller locations of 20, 25 to 30 of those homes put together. That's how they're an incident in the whole. We also want this to be done not only in the neighbourhoods of the people, but also in the better neighbourhoods. I've already told you that a lot of municipalities have a very large land company, where locations are available. So I guess it's really not that complicated to find them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u155	So we hear: beautiful, modern houses for €25,000 to €40,000. Do you know what an average Dutchman should pay for a new starter's home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u156	I told Mr Madlener that we are making a plan for all Dutch people. So also for the teacher, also for the lady who has just been divorced, also for the gentleman who quickly needs a home, also for the student who has graduated and needs to get out of his dorm room. So he should be an ally of mine. We make it possible for all Dutch people who are urgently waiting for a home to find one very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u157	Mr De Vries has so far used three minutes of his speaking time; the rest was interruptions. I suggest he continue with his input.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u158	We are a little surprised that there are no instruments at all for the segment of the more expensive rentals. In the social sector, we have the guarantee scheme. We have the mortgage interest deduction for the other sector. We have the National Mortgage Guarantee. We have start-up loans. So there are all kinds of arrangements for buying and for the social sector, but for the segment that we need very much now, nothing has actually been arranged at all. We would consider it important if the Minister thought about instruments that could help to get that segment moving quickly. Many private investors, i.e. pension funds and the like, have recently told us that they can build up to 6,000 homes per year. They told them that they can't even build 6,000 homes, because they can't find places for construction. Mr Van der Linde has already said it. It seems to me that the cabinet really has an intermediate role to play there. Another target group which, according to the Labour Party, has to be served with priority is those with a large demand for support. They really want to stay in their own house. If their house isn't suitable for that anymore and they want to adjust it, and they have an overvalue in their mortgage, they can't get a loan. We would like a solution to that. We have start-up loans; let's think about whether we can't make "continue loans" for people who want to invest the overvalue of their home, to make their home so accessible that they can stay there with their limitations. As far as this is not possible, we believe that small-scale complexes with life-proof homes are needed in all Dutch neighbourhoods and villages, close to facilities, allowing people to continue to direct their own lives and stay in their familiar surroundings. We think it is important that this happens on a small scale, that the care on call is close and that even if someone needs very heavy care, it can be done at home with the full package. We await with great interest the opinions of the committee headed by Marnix Norder.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u159	A subject that is a bit along the lines of this, are the care homes. I think this is a nice initiative: of children who want to take care of their parents nearby, usually by putting a home in the home. We've been able to arrange for all this to be licensed now. In municipalities, however, it appears that the impact of these care homes on the WZ is being dealt with differently. So it may be that one has to pay a higher ozb because one or two parents are being cared for. Does Mr De Vries think that we should make a clear statement on this matter? Does he think that we should arrange that such housing cannot lead to an increase in the World Health Organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u160	I haven't thought about that very long, so my group needs to keep this under review. In my first reaction, I think it is reasonable to study there. However, we believe that a family home should be a temporary provision. If she really is a temporary facility, so if it's not about adding an extra home, it's obvious to keep those people away from the taxes. So I am going to discuss this in my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u161	Thank you, we will come up with a proposal. I'm curious. I assume that there will then be a positive response from the PvdA Group to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u162	I just want to say one thing about these care homes. It is now regulated that the municipalities have an influence on the investment decisions of the corporations. The Labour Party wonders whether it makes sense to think about the possibility of municipalities having more influence on healthcare providers' investments, because that combination makes it possible for us to come to a good solution. In people with a support demand, problems are currently identified by the introduction of "appropriate allocation." There is a lot of bureaucracy, because 100% of the people who have been placed must be shown to comply with the income test. In the case of people who have been taken in by the Salvation Army or come out of prison, that is extremely difficult. That is why the housing of these people is held up, just by the bureaucracy. We wonder whether it is not enough to justify 90% of the allocation to the target group. The urban renewal and the neighbourhood approach are out of the picture. The Investment Budget Urban Renewal has disappeared. That's the problem, because not all the problems have been solved. The problems of shrinking areas and cities need to be addressed further. The NPRZ must also be taken further. Rotterdam itself recently released 10 million. There are still many neighbourhoods in our country where solutions do not come about automatically. These solutions can also be implemented more and more often by people themselves, but sometimes they do not have the finances or the rules make it difficult. In 2016, the landlord levy will be evaluated. What good would it be if we could find room to widen the tax reduction which is now specific to the shrinking regions and Rotterdam-South, then for urban renewal. What would be great if the cabinet followed Rotterdam's first step and also contributed to that national programme. In its future vision for the Labour Party after 2017, the Party of Labour is looking for space to get that urban renewal back on the agenda. The Chamber can count on that. We also like the fact that we have always managed to cover the shortfalls in the rent payment and that we have not had to cut the rent payment. Then I come to the energy saving in the built environment. The Labour Party is deeply concerned about meeting the objectives of the Energy Agreement for the built environment. 40% of all our energy use takes place in buildings. We don't need to generate all the energy we can save. The Energy Agreement sets a target of 100 petajoules for 2020. No less than 53 petajoules of this should come from energy saving in buildings. 1 petajoule equals the energy needs of 50,000 households. There was only 10 petajoules left at hand by the end of 2014. So that number had not yet been realized. The picture for 2015 shows little improvement. What is the Minister going to do to achieve the objective? Will this Minister, like his colleague for Economic Affairs, from now on stand as a general for achieving the objectives? To make that possible, it seems that things have to be different: less waiting, more attacking and perhaps also using other instruments. In an AO on energy saving, we will all put forward our ideas on this, but I would like to highlight two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u163	I see Mrs Voortman wants to interrupt, but have you finished this point yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u164	I would like to mention two more examples of energy saving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u165	Maybe it's good to finish these examples first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u166	We are very excited about the Power Acceleration and the zero-on-the-meter houses. I know the Minister is also very excited about it. It works like this: with your energy bill you can make about €45,000 in investments possible. Some companies offer to do this on the condition that you transfer your monthly energy amount to the builder. We think that's a wonderful solution. There is, however, one complicating factor, because it requires a loan. It cannot be linked to the person, but must be linked to the house. That's what the deal's about. It's about the resident of that house and his energy bill. That hasn't been settled yet. We would very much like the Minister, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, to think about a way to do this quickly. Large investments for energy saving are currently being postponed because there is uncertainty about the netting scheme. That netting arrangement ensures that you get the energy you take from the net at the same price as the price you get when you return. This will only be evaluated in 2017. There are corporations that have big plans to reach zero-on-the-meter, but they're waiting. Indeed, if the netting scheme does not go through after 2020, they will have to burden their tenants with much higher burdens and they cannot do so. So it's really an acute problem. I also heard the Minister for Economic Affairs yesterday, but it would be really nice if this Minister put his shoulders on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u167	Are you done with the examples?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u168	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr De Vries began his introduction with energy saving in the built environment. He said the Minister should try harder. Did I get that correctly? Is Mr De Vries saying that this Minister is not doing enough to achieve the agreements in the energy agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u170	I think he is trying hard, but the point is that the results are still far below the level, which worries us. All efforts must be successful. So the question is how we can complete our efforts in such a way that we are going to achieve the target of 53 petajoule by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u171	Exactly. This means that this Minister must make efforts not to be a stumbling block when it comes to achieving the agreements contained in the energy agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u172	But the PvdA sees this minister more as an ally than a stumbling block in this file. It is a question of achieving results. That's what I'm talking about. Is the Minister aware of this? What's he gonna do about it? Does he have any ideas for solving problems? I have also mentioned two examples, but there are, of course, many more examples to come up with. I would like to touch briefly on the issue of shrinkage. My group is concerned that the budget states that the Reich intends to withdraw from the shrinkage problem after 2019 through the cooperation agenda. Mr Ronnes just quoted the sentence in the budget text. We are even now hearing rumors that the necessary reorganisation in the ministry would have already started. Can the Minister clarify this? He understands that we're completely surprised by this, doesn't he? Shrimp is a situation that lies ahead for large parts of the country. Surely it cannot be that we are not introducing the Agenda City for the growth cities and that we are going to reduce the quality of life in rural areas and the decline in population at the borders of our country? Furthermore, we understand that money remains of the amount reserved for the deduction possibilities of the landlord's tax. We ask the Minister whether it is conceivable to open these deductions to the two new shrinkage areas, namely the Achterhoek and Noordoost-Friesland. The PvdA is very pleased that the cleaners have returned to the service of the Empire and that their implementation has begun. We are also pleased that the employees of Paresto, the catering company of Defense, can remain in service and that facilities staff in the lower pay scales will also be given a good legal status and a permanent place between colleagues. We are curious about the state of play with the mail delivery companies, in particular the acquisition of Valid Express, a part where many people with disabilities work. In any case, we are curious about the situation with regard to the employment of people with disabilities and the number of internships in the government. In 2017, women must be represented at least 30% in top positions. The minister tells us he's gonna make it. Together with him, we'd be very proud if this really works. Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it at that in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u173	I have a question about the wage agreement for the Empire. It's also part of the state service. I assume that the PvdA has also taken note of the fact that the ABP is now blocking the wage agreement. What does this mean for the position of the PvdA on the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u174	I heard this this morning, just like Mrs. Voortman. I think we need to descend this information before we see what its effect is. We're curious how the cabinet reacts to this. We believe that this has been preceded by discussions and we would like to know what has been exchanged before we make our position known.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u175	Maybe the PvdA can ask the minister together with GroenLinks if he is willing to go back into consultation with all trade unions about the wage agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u176	This is a question to the Minister through Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u177	I also find it interesting to hear the Minister's response to this message. It is indeed important that we continue to seek a solution for all those people who work in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about 2016. That's gonna be a disaster year. The cabinet is responsible for a national disaster in the housing market. Open border policy will prove to be the biggest mistake of Rutte II cabinet. Our country is full of Islamic immigrants and the cabinet is there and says: there is room for even more. That is why I say: wake up, Minister Blok; you are the Minister for Living and a blind chicken can see that the Netherlands does not have enough homes to house all those people. We are talking today about the 2016 budget Living for 2016. It says virtually nothing about the immigration disaster that is now taking place. This is a cabinet in wartime that sticks its head in the sand and says: there's nothing wrong, go to sleep. Not only the cabinet is lost; the CDA is happy to participate. Like the cabinet, the CDA is a big fan of one Europe and refuses to close the borders. It also wants to place several asylum seekers in one house. That's bullshit and madness. You're gonna live next door to a place like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u179	This calls for a reaction from the CDA Group. We have stressed the need to find a solution in the region. However, we cannot ignore the refugees who are currently in the Netherlands. If we do not put down a good solution, the problem will only get bigger, according to the CDA Group. So you're gonna have to come up with a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u180	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u181	I referred to the position of the CDA, which says that we have open borders, so come to the Netherlands. It's got a huge aphrodisiac effect. The CDA wants to place several asylum seekers in one house. Mr Ronnes' group has made this quite clear. I find that unacceptable. You're gonna live next door. You'll only have four or five of those bearded men next to you. I shouldn't think about it, and I think this applies to a lot of Dutch people. However, this is due to CDA choices. The SP comes no further than calling for more social housing; as if you can build on this. The SP also refuses to close the borders and seems to think that the arrival of hundreds of thousands of Muslim immigrants makes our country so much more cozy. There are also many SP-choosers living in the poor deprived neighbourhoods, Mr Bashir. Don't let those people down, I'd say to him. Minister Blok, however, continues to sleep and is watching. Nursing homes are closed, while tens of thousands of fortune seekers are welcomed. Cabinet policy is also about the housing of our elderly. Older people are becoming more and more troubled by the fact that they have to live in an inappropriate home for too long. Surely it can't be that the nursing homes are closed down and they're gonna be full of asylum seekers? Sometimes they even sit together with the elderly in one home. This has already been done in a single home, in which the homes that are to be left empty are filled by asylum seekers. There you are as an older person: you can't go anywhere and you're going to be among Islamic asylum seekers. Already, the 72-hour reception of municipalities is plunging because of the asylum seekers and busloads of asylum seekers are driving around from reception to reception, because our government is too cowardly to tell the truth. That truth is that the Netherlands has no place for so many immigrants. The truth is that in recent decades the Netherlands has had so many problems with non-Western immigration and that we are still suffering from its negative consequences. Whole neighborhoods are unlivable, Islamicized and very uncomfortable to live. Have we learned nothing from the past? VVD Secretary of State Dijkhoff calls for courageous aldermen who distribute homes to asylum seekers, while waiting lists for Dutch people continue to grow. Many municipalities are no longer able to pay for care for the elderly, but this government says: make free homes available to immigrants, we will charge the citizen. So it is the citizens in the municipalities who will be able to pay it later. Is that courage, or is that madness? Is it brave not to let civilians in your town or village decide on their living environment? Is it brave to abandon citizens with decisions on the placement of asylum seekers without sufficiently involving them? Is it brave to fool citizens with participation evenings, when decisions have already been taken? No, that's not brave, that's antidemocratic. The regent culture of the PvdA from the nineties has been reinvented, this time by the VVD. What is worse: denying the problems, as the PvdA does, or naming the problems, but then running away from them, as the VVD does? There are residential areas in the Netherlands where the natives are now in the minority, neighborhoods that are jihadists' broinesten. This is all due to the total failure of integration policies in the 1990s. This budget Living is the pinnacle of looking away from the problems. Ad Melkert is nothing. The ruins of Rutte II are now coming about. PvdA member of the Chamber, De Vries, says on behalf of his group that refugees can stay here now. The expulsion policy has always been a joke, but it doesn't seem to be any longer. All these status holders get a home, all at taxpayers' expense. Now the PvdA comes up with an emergency plan to build 100,000 homes for asylum seekers in two years. Hardworking Dutch people who want to build a house have to go through years of procedures and permits, or pay the top price for a piece of building land, but asylum seekers are served on their beckons.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u182	Mr. Chairman. I am listening to this with increasing amazement. Apparently, Mr Madlener does not want to face the facts of our plan. We stand up for the people who have been looking for a house for years, who are on waiting lists and for whom no solutions have yet been found and who will not be there soon. We do want solutions. If status holders have a permit, they can stay here. If Mr Madlener has a permit for something, he can use it too. That's the way it is. We must also house those people, but not at all with priority. They also have to pay rent. They need to get to work as soon as possible. We want to give them a basis in the Netherlands, in such a way that they can really root and contribute to our society if they have a licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u183	We all know that status holders are given priority when it comes to social housing. That is the case to this day. So Mr De Vries should not pretend that he is not. I wonder if that situation is changing now. I didn't hear anything about that. The PvdA's plan is in this direction, but I have not yet had a commitment, not even from Mr De Vries when I asked him to do so. We also note with each other that we already have a housing shortage in the Netherlands. Then you do not have an open border policy, then you do not allow hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers. I think that would be very unwise. We must show that we have learned from the 1990s.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u184	I shall leave the latter on Mr Madlener's behalf. I understand now that he understands what our plan is about. In other words, all those who seek a home and have a permit will be helped. That is what this is about, and Mr Madlener should support it. We want to move away from the situation where status holders are given priority through the existing stock. We just want to expand that stock. Then you don't need that priority arrangement anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u185	Then let's stop this priority arrangement today. I asked Mr De Vries to do the same, but he would not give it at home. I hear plans about realizing 100,000 homes at €25,000 per house. Most house prices in the Netherlands are above two tons for a starter's home. I don't know what the PvdA's doing. It reminds me of a statement by a former PvdA man: you can't live in bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u186	I would like to hear from the PVV how much of the housing released is now given to status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u187	That's way too many of them. The waiting period is growing enormously. We see this in The Hague and in countless other municipalities in the Netherlands. The waiting period has been long and is getting much longer. That's a fact. It varies from place to place. I would also like to draw attention to the question of what this does to the quality of life of the neighbourhood. A lot of asylum seekers in a neighborhood aren't good for that neighborhood. We see the consequences. I have lived in Rotterdam for years and we see that those cities are ruined. Whole neighborhoods, also in The Hague, have been ruined by the arrival of so many non-western immigrants. GroenLinks says, "Come on in, there's plenty left. I think that is so unwise and I would like to draw attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u188	We are used to supporting our views with facts. 6% of the homes that are now being released go to status holders. Even if we said we'd stop giving all status holders a home, there's still a huge shortage of social housing. The solution lies precisely in ensuring that there will be more social housing. We are really achieving something with that, including for the people for whom Mr Madlener claims to stand up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u189	Building the whole of the Netherlands with social housing is not a solution. They weren't built just like that. The waiting lists are already huge. The number of status holders looking for a home is huge. There are thousands of people involved. You'd better be on one of those waiting lists. In my own congregation, you wait years for a house. Maybe ten social rentals will be released. If ten are suddenly withdrawn because they are given priority to status holders, it will take years longer. I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u190	This problem is not a new problem. People have been on the waiting list for years. The average waiting list in the Netherlands has a duration of seven years, with runners to nine years in Amsterdam. Now all parties in the Chamber get turned upside down by the PVV. What has the PVV done to address the waiting lists at the social housing corporations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u191	My party is clear: we must close the borders. That is the only effective approach. As a country with a housing shortage, you cannot say that all are welcome. It gives a huge sucking effect when both a benefit and a home is offered. We don't have those homes, and if we did, you'll see that living in the neighborhoods is under enormous pressure if you allow so many non-western immigrants. Our solution is simple: close the borders. The SP is not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u192	Let us look at the facts. We can see that the PVV has helped to create these long waiting lists. It was the PVV that was in charge of the landlord's tax. EUR 1.6 billion is now being removed from the housing corporations. This money could have been used by the housing corporations to build homes. It was the PVV who was ahead of me. I showed the press release and I show it again in protest against the construction of social housing. It is the PVV that says that building a lot of social housing is not social. Now there is a shortage and now the asylum seekers are being blamed. Why isn't the PVV sincere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u193	I've been trying to stand up for people who want to buy their own house or rent it. We all want to increase the offer. We agree on that. I do not want us to build the Netherlands with social housing, whether it be the PvdA's campsites or the social housing in the old neighbourhoods of the SP, and then dump massively non-Western immigrants into it. It's gonna give you unliving neighborhoods. You get neighborhoods where you don't want to live. I stand up for the people who live in a neighborhood like this and can't go anywhere. They don't have a pleasant living climate. The SP exacerbates this problem with its open border policy. We must be realistic. The Netherlands can't handle this. We have learned bad lessons from the past. Do not continue with this open border policy! It is not good for the quality of the Dutch living environment. That doesn't help the SP's supporters either. This budget of Minister Blok is the pinnacle of looking away. The ruins of Rutte II are now being written. PvdA-Kamerlid De Vries states.I have already said that all status holders get a house and that 100,000 homes can be built for €25,000 per house. Those are dreams. This can't be happening. A property costs much more than €25,000, or it becomes a kind of trailer park. Then I wonder what those houses look like. Who pays for the land and the infrastructure? This crazy plan can only come from a crazy party like the PvdA. It's going to lead to shitholes and costs are going to exceed billions. How long do these properties last? 15 years, so that's a very long time. That's why I want to give this plan a name right now: the PvdA's slums. I have already said that the number of rentals in the free sector is seriously inadequate. We share that. Most, perhaps all, parties in this Chamber find that. I am asking for concrete, manageable objectives. I have not yet seen the beginning of a solution to this. I have no confidence that those good homes, which are in demand, will now be built. I also ask for attention for the properties in the Netherlands. A quarter of all properties in the Netherlands are still under water. That means the mortgage debt is higher than the value of the property. It concerns about 1 million households. We should not underestimate that. Houses in the Netherlands have fallen enormously in value, partly because of the stricter requirements to be able to take out a mortgage. That is unwise government policy, because it has reduced house prices much more in our country than in our neighbouring countries. On average, a Dutch property is worth 17% less than in 2008. Not everyone lives in Amsterdam. Most people don't live in Amsterdam or Utrecht. They still have to deal with enormous decline in the value of their homes. People with their own home can literally go nowhere because of the lower house prices. They are, as it were, trapped by their couch. Surrendering is often not possible, while existing cases are involved, because suddenly new, stricter rules are applied. I would like to draw attention to the following. In Belgium, it is totally different. The ING Bank, which has been saved with Dutch taxpayers' money and is also a large bank in Belgium, charges up to three months interest on transfers. I wonder why ING Bank, a Dutch bank, is much more favourable for Belgians than for Dutch people. Why doesn't the government let the people with a mortgage that's underwater take advantage of the current low interest rates? That saves a lot in the mortgage interest deduction, because if you pay a low interest rate, you also have less deduction. This is beneficial for the state's finances. Those people could therefore pay off more and get out of the problem faster. Can the Minister comment on this? There's another group of people who are even more screwed by this cabinet. Those are the people who live near one of the many asylum seekers' centres that are now shooting out like mushrooms. The housing of people around an asylum-seekers' centre will be further reduced in value. The owners of these homes will suffer thousands of euros of property damage as a result of all the asylum seekers' centres in the cabinet. My question to the Minister is: where can all these property owners claim their damage? I can guess the answer. As far as the minister's concerned, I think those people will be able to go to hell. But we're gonna hear about it later, I hope. I told you, the mistakes of the past are now repeated. Unbridled immigration of non-Western immigrants leads to enormous problems in the housing market. Late neighbourhoods are again filled with poverty and Islamization. The Netherlands is starting again from the beginning. I therefore removed the book De de debris van 8 jaar Purple, written by Pim Fortuyn, from the library again. I'd like to offer that to Minister Blok. If the minister promises to bring it back to the library within six weeks, I'd be happy to hand over the book to him through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u194	I have listened carefully to Mr Madlener. I think he expresses a lot of sincere concerns that live in society about refugees. These are concerns which we also see and which we share to a large extent. A lot of people will have looked and thought: that is finally being named. However, the same people have not heard any solution, except rolls of barbed wire on the beach and a checkpoint at Venlo, so the borders close. Is there another solution advocated by the PVV, given the fact that we now have 14,000 people to help a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u195	I'm in favour of real solutions. The only real solution is, of course, to stop the policy of giving everyone a residence permit and to say 'come to the Netherlands', as is done in Germany. We just can't handle it. We're in the middle of a disaster about ourselves. We will see that in the housing market, but we will see that in the schools and in the neighbourhoods. All the misery from the 1990s that we've had is repeated. Surely the VVD, as a government party, is not supposed to see these problems, but not come up with a solution? Even if I ask the VVD to say in concrete terms that priority must be given to asylum seekers today, the VVD does not give up at home. Big stories in the paper, but don't do anything. I really think it's too crazy for words. I recommend the VVD: stop this cabinet, write out elections and then we'll look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u196	That wasn't my question. My question was: what are we going to do with those 14,000 people who need shelter? That's 14,000 status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u197	My party is very simple in that. We need to get these people back to the country of origin as soon as possible. We need to stop inviting hundreds of thousands of people who want to come this way as soon as possible. The Netherlands must now say: we have no place for you, you must find a place to stay in your own country or region, but you must not come to the Netherlands. However, the cabinet and the party of Mr Van der Linde, the VVD, do exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u198	Mr. Chairman. Last night we saw the need for housing refugees. Secretary of State Dijkhoff could not keep previous agreements. This does not increase support for refugee reception, nor does it increase confidence in the government. The lack of places for refugees is partly due to the fact that at present there are 14,000 people who have already received a residence permit in asylum seekers' centres. So there can be room. I'm not going to announce all kinds of tough plans today to quickly build 100,000 homes or to let refugees live in containers. I wish it were that easy. I pretend to have no better solution than the people who are working 24 hours a day to find that solution. I just want to say to the cabinet: do what is necessary and leave no opportunity unused. Last Friday's letter from Minister Blok is a good start: I think it would be wise to use empty standing and state real estate. The need is high and every bit helps. However, the question is whether this is enough. How many places does it take? Can the Minister describe concrete actions and concrete objectives? How quickly does he think he can reduce the pressure on COA? Last year, Secretary of State Teeven called the alarm clock saying that there are a lot of asylum seekers coming. So last year we were warned about this. Why didn't they act at the time? I'm coming to the housing market. Both on the sales market and on the rental market, a lot has been set in motion after the housing agreement of 2013. Eventually this should lead to a normal housing market, but it is going very slowly. In a normal housing market, the buying market does not react to good or bad times, there is a free rental sector for people who want flexibility and there is a social rental sector without waiting lists for those who need it. We must give the measures time. However, that does not mean that there is nothing to do now. There are business to do, both on the rental side and on the merchant side. I'll start with the rental business. A separate bill will shortly come to the Chamber about the rent-sum approach. What will be the impact of this proposal on the flow? Doesn't that proposal make it more attractive to live crookedly again? How is it possible that this will lead to a reduction in expenditure on the rent payment, while the low-income people can also get higher rent increases? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Among landlords there is still a lot of reuring about the landlord's tax. It will be evaluated next year. However, I already see a small group of landlords who should not really be included, namely the group of health care institutions that let people live independently. Clients then rent accommodation from the care facility. Does that fit the landlord's charge? Isn't that at the expense of the healthcare budget? I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. Corporations say they are no longer able to invest in large-scale projects and often blame the landlord's tax on them. However, I also get signals about private investors who want to take over that role, including in, for example, Kanaleneiland, the Schilderswijk or Rotterdam-Zuid. However, they do want to be able to rent part of the houses above the liberalisation limit. I don't think that's a bad idea. This will also create new supply and flow. That is urgently needed; we have all heard that many times today. However, because the WZ value is low, in the new housing valuation system the number of points is too low to be sure of that rental limit. Is it an idea to apply the new construction scheme for these large-scale renovations? For 110 points, at least 40 points are awarded for the WPA value. What does the Minister think of that idea? I have another question about Rotterdam-Zuid. As in the case of the shrinking areas, the investment deduction from the landlord's tax applies. For this, 70 million have been available every year since 2014. However, only 40 million have been granted. How is that possible? We also get a lot of complaints about red tape that would be attached to this. For example, if an office building is converted into an apartment complex, an application must be submitted for each apartment separately. Can't that be easier? Luckily, the market attracts a lot. Property sales have increased by 15% this year and have just come to the notice that confidence in the housing market has been at the highest point in years. That's good news. However, I also see unnecessary restrictions on the sales market. I am thinking, among other things, of the mortgage rules. For example, in the case of a mortgage application, the original amount of the student debt is included. If you ever had €30,000 in debt and paid €20,000 in debt after ten years, you can still borrow less because the initial amount of €30,000 is assumed. However, the risk with a debt of €10,000 is really much lower than with that original €30,000. Is the Minister going to end this? I'm worried about isolating the properties. Mr De Vries also spoke about this. It's too slow. In the General Political Reviews, D66 and the Labour Party together asked for a better approach to the isolation of residential properties. We have also asked for the network companies to play a role in this. They could make the investment, creating a flywheel effect. Indeed, the relatively long payback period of this type of investment can represent a barrier for people to invest in isolation. Network companies do not have that restriction. A storage on the electricity bill will then allow the investments to be gradually repaid. Of course, Minister Kamp is responsible for this, but I also appeal to this Minister for his responsibility. What does he think of this proposal? What does c.q. Can he do this? Apart from living, this minister is also about the state service. This morning, the Volkskrant wrote that the ABP administration does not want to reduce the pension premium as opposed to the negotiating agreement, whereas that is part of the coverage of the wage agreement for the state officials, which is the basis for many collective agreements that are now being concluded. What's the Minister gonna do if that premium cut is off? Can he respond to that and give a little more background? In the last minute of my speech I would like to talk to the Minister about the jewel of his portfolio, the Binnenhof. If we have to believe the Minister, our beautiful inner court of misery will fall apart. It should be evacuated for six years for a renovation costing 475 million. Let's put that amount in perspective. The complete renovation of the Rijksmuseum was 100 million cheaper. The renovation of Amsterdam Centraal was 245 million cheaper. And that's what makes everything go crazy. 25 years ago, the new building of the House of Representatives, adjusted for inflation, was more than 300 million cheaper. Of course, D66 also believes that this building should meet the safety requirements. I also see that there is a need for maintenance of parts of the Binnenhof. I have no objection to that; something must be done. But half a billion and six years close, I can't do that. Soon we will have a separate debate in this Chamber with the Minister on the conversion plans. But before we have that debate, therefore, I would like to raise this issue today, and D66 would like to see cheaper variants on the table. Let's just do whatever it takes and not make it a prestige project. Is the Minister prepared to work out the cheaper variants before that planned debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u199	Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with what is most urgent: the housing of refugees, but also of status holders and their impact on the rental market. In an earlier debate, we called for creative solutions. Last Friday we received a letter from this Minister, in which he made a number of proposals. Thank you for that. For example, in the field of cohousing, where we had tabled a motion with the CDA, there are good handles in it. But it now also turns out that procedures and rules are currently viscous, which makes it seem like a bit of a stick to the real thing. I would like to mention two examples, starting with the market test to be applied to housing corporations when they take on the management and rental of third-party buildings. Most municipalities do not yet have a market test. Before we have done that completely, we are also a period further. Can that test be omitted in this case? Also on the issue of the exemption from the landlord's tax for buildings that are made suitable for cohousing, we have already indicated that no landlord's tax will be applied to office buildings converted into housing units. But that only applies to independent homes. The moment we use cohousing to place several people in those homes, that doesn't happen. Is the Minister prepared to make concessions in this respect so that this can really happen? More fundamentally, I have already mentioned the fact that the COA is currently engaged in mass reception, often in the short term, in the interrupting debate with Mr Van der Linde. We saw where that leads last night, for example in the Dutch Team. There there is a great willingness to catch many people, but the water is now really flowing over the shoes. I can imagine that very well. Because there is now a lot of pressure on the azc's the problem also moves to the rental market. Is this Minister prepared, with his colleague, the Secretary of State of V and J, to consider whether much more can be devoted to small-scale, longer-term reception of refugees, but also to status holders, so that the pressure can be removed from the housing market, but also to ensure that the viability in all these communities is simply put first, where there is a willingness to take people, but not as massive, acute and ad hoc as is currently happening? As far as the flow is concerned, I have the same question as Mr Van der Linde. Why is it sticking now? We have always argued in favour of increasing the flow of social rents to private rents, but also for building more homes. I note that this is lagging behind, although it was one of the objectives of this Minister. Can he reflect what that's because of? I also agree with Mr Ronnes' question as to whether a flow-through loan could not provide a solution to 'greater demand in the chimney'. I would also like to announce that the note following the report on our initiative for youth contracts will be sent to the Chamber this week. Hopefully we will be able to deal with this law quickly and contribute to the flow debate. I'm getting to the point of living on my own for a longer time. This cabinet greatly promotes the participatory society. At a time when children choose to place a family home at their home to accommodate their parents, we can only welcome that. That seems to me to be a very good development. We have already ensured that this can be licensed, but we have also found that in some municipalities there may be an increase in the value of the World Health Organisation. The Appraisal Chamber leaves the way in which this is handled to the municipalities, but it seems to us that there should be a clear line for the municipalities from the Empire. A temporary care home cannot lead to an increase in the value of the World Health Organisation and punish people through the OZB for their good work. Does the Minister agree and would he like to set that line for the municipalities as well? Then I come to the issue of energy saving. At that point, we're not quite on the road yet. The Environment and Infrastructure Council has indicated that the rate of energy saving needs to be substantially increased. By 2020, homes should have an average energy label B. Are we gonna make it? I will make a number of proposals to take some further action on this. I have also heard a number of proposals from Mr De Vries. Why, for example, does the Minister set legal targets for the appropriate allocation of housing, but do agreements on sustainability persist in the context of agreements? Is it possible to make legally anchored agreements with corporations on the number of zero-on-the-metre homes to be built annually? Then I come to the solar panels for single-family homes. Is it not an idea to include the financing of this type of business in the service costs, as is already happening in apartment complexes? Is the Minister prepared to make arrangements with the Rent Committee on this matter? Sometimes it's better to demolish a place. Is the Minister prepared to extend the energy saving subsidy scheme so that sustainable replacement is also encouraged? I've come to the point of salading. I heard Mr De Vries on that too. There is a lot of uncertainty about what is going to happen with this, which means that investments in renewable energy and the sustainability of the built environment will be stopped. Can the Minister clarify this? As far as the point of shrinking is concerned, it is true that agreements have been made with the shrinking regions. However, when we have to implement these agreements, the Empire seems to withdraw. We call on the Minister to commit himself to the shrinking regions, to the challenges that lie there and to the plans that have been made there. On the issue of the reduced landlord levy for Rotterdam-Zuid and the shrinking areas, I agree with Mr Koolmees' questions. Can't we lower the administrative burden? After all, that is a huge brake on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u200	Mr. Chairman. There is more demand for social housing because more people apply for and get asylum in our country. However, demand was already high, even without status holders. The waiting times in the major cities are sometimes longer than ten years. That is not because our population is growing so enormously now. This is not because of the asylum seekers, as the PVV is happy to tell us, because only 6% of the homes released go to status holders. Even if you didn't house all the status holders, there's a shortage of social housing. This lack of social housing is due to the policy of the cabinet and its cabinets. Among other things, through the introduction of the landlord levy and the increasing liberalisation of social housing, the deficit has increased. There's got to be a switch. It is good that the Minister wants to start by converting the enormous stock of vacant buildings under the Rijksbouwbouwdienst, but it is a pity that he would like to offer these buildings at market prices. That actually makes this plan unfeasible. The Minister does not seem to be so quick to solve the shortage of housing, but rather to make a financial contribution. What exactly does he mean by "market-compliant rentals"? If the alternative is that the buildings remain empty, as is the case at present, then they will not yield anything anyway. Is the Minister prepared to also make available a budget for adapting and making available these offices and state buildings? It would allow housing corporations to take over management. Why are there only 31 buildings on this list anyway? In The Hague alone, many more buildings are empty. Think of the Juliana barracks, the former Ministry of Social Affairs and the former Ministry of LNV. Why aren't these properties on the list?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u201	Suppose the minister on the scale he goes over square meters is going to offer homes below the market price. What would that do to the housing market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u202	For a moment I do not see the link with what I have just mentioned. Could Mr Van der Linde perhaps explain his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u203	I do not want to make a very economic argument, but Mrs Voortman is actually calling on the Minister to throw things away for a bummer, and that means quite a lot for other providers of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u204	We're talking offices here, state buildings. They would indeed be offered at a low price or I would rather continue to do so in the administration of the Empire. You could say that office owners will have a difficult competition problem, but these are buildings that have been empty for a very long time and a very big problem that the Minister's colleague is dealing with. If you really want to do something about that, I think you should also look at unorthodox measures. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider the continuation of the landlord's tax? Does he finally want to see that this rent tax ensures that housing corporations do not have enough financial space to build sufficient new social housing? Without that space, the housing corporations cannot realize the beautiful plan of the Labour Party for 100,000 homes in two years. For many years, the majority of municipalities have not complied with the legal obligation to house status holders. The Hague, for example, which does nothing at all when it comes to the reception of asylum seekers, would still have to accommodate 700 people. This raises the question whether the current system of distributing status holders among municipalities is still working in proportion to the population. In a city like Amsterdam, where there is already a large shortage of social housing, the establishment of additional status holders can be an extra big problem, while in a municipality like Zuidhoorn the task can be easily met. We also have examples of municipalities in which facilities such as schools could stay open due to the arrival of an asylum-seekers' centre. With a different system of distribution, we can also ask a few more questions from municipalities that do not accommodate people in emergency care and azc's. Is the Minister prepared to deal with the possibility of a better distribution based on question and answer? In the energy agreement, agreements were made on the built environment. The results are left behind. How many homes have at least two label steps been taken this year? When does the Minister arrive at the 300 000 homes per year agreed in the Energy Agreement? Achieving the target reduces the citizens' energy bill, brings the climate goals closer and provides more work in construction. That should be a reason for the Minister to run faster. Is he willing to look at innovative proposals to quickly increase the energy efficiency of homes? And is he willing to allow the energy label to be a mandatory factor in determining the WPA value of a house? I'm rounding up. If you've been looking for a place for years, it's not easy to see a fugitive coming past you with urgency. However, we must be aware that the shortage of social housing is much older than the increase in the number of asylum seekers. That is why I say: build these social rental homes; that is good for the Dutch house seeker, for the refugee who is forced into an azc for years and for peace of mind in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u205	Mr. Chairman. Housing policy is always good for a lot of commentary. Whether it's the landlord tax, the sale of social housing, the rent increases, crooked housing or waiting lists, it's a thankful subject to discuss. However, with all the comments I am sure we can be honest about the fact that something is actually happening on the housing market, both in the rental sector and in the purchasing sector. That is a movement which the Minister is allowed to write on his conto. Of course, things are far from going well and there is a constant need for alertness. But the case has moved and is heading in the right direction. That is why we certainly do not share all that talk about the situation in the housing market. We see that the measures taken, however painful and profound they have been, are having their effect. We are pleased with that. I would like to make three brief points, in line with what my fellow Members have said about this. I deal with the reception of asylum seekers, look at the position of corporations and will have the last but not least on the renovation of the Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u206	And all in about three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u207	All in three minutes and 42 seconds, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I will deal with the reception of asylum seekers. In itself, the whole process of receiving asylum seekers and allocating asylum applications is already quite a job. This applies no less to the allocation of accommodation to those admitted to the Netherlands. After all, tensions are also high in the housing market. It is understandable that people who wait years for a rental home find it difficult to digest that thousands of others are now moving forward. Then perhaps it is not even so much about the percentage of the population that you can be very sober and businesslike about, but above all about the imagery. This does nothing to help the reception of asylum seekers. We must therefore keep that problem as low as possible. It is good that the Minister himself has put forward proposals to relieve the pressure on the housing stock. The SGP merely supports that every stranger should be able to rely on living space, but that does not have to be an independent home in advance. When refugees in the Netherlands are given a decent room and living facilities, the basic facilities, that is still sufficient. However, the SGP calls for attention to be paid to the risks to viability when looking for temporary and more flexible living space. For example, sub-renting or placement of several persons in a single home can lead to decent living difficulties. This applies both to migrant workers from other Member States and to foreigners. Can the Minister indicate how he will ensure that such problems are avoided as much as possible? Secondly, I deal with the corporations. The Minister expects the necessary corporations when it comes to creating housing. That is understandable, but we can expect the rules to be applied smoothly and quickly where necessary. Aedes has already indicated that there are possibilities. Think, for example, of the market test for corporate activities. Is the specific nature of the problem adequately taken into account? I would like to hear from the Minister how this should be dealt with in practice. For the conversion of offices, corporations may receive a reduction in the landlord's tax. However, the SGP hears from corporations that the implementation is rather lean and that there is a lot of red tape in the application. Can the Minister indicate how he intends to deal with this and what he will do about it? Thirdly, I deal with the proposed renovation of the Binnenhof complex. Since we are going to have a separate discussion on this shortly, I will not go into details. I'd like, figuratively, to give a shot. I've taken note of the passive public documents. I must say, this didn't cheer me up. I find in the pieces an incredibly powerful purpose reasoning which, as it were, forces in a certain direction. I ask the Minister to go into the process, the discussion about the renovation of the Binnenhof opener. This means that alternatives must be worked out in an equivalent manner, or similar, before we can come to terms with them. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u208	That was right in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mr. Chairman. A very important, if not the most important issue today, is the shortage of social housing. A few weeks ago it became clear that waiting times are already getting out of hand, with an average of 8 years and outliers up to 21 years. So it goes from bad to worse, because older people live longer at home and young people hardly get a mortgage, and especially because of the influx of refugees. It is estimated that 43.000 refugees will have to be housed, and not even family members who come to the Netherlands have been taken into account. So it could be 160,000 people. They still come up against the problems of waiting times that are already there. The situation is getting out of hand. There really is a limit to what the Netherlands can do. 50PLUS wants to remove the priority for the status holders in the regular social housing. Whoever's first on the waiting list should be first, period. Last week's Minister's letter does not make it clear whether this is going to happen. Housing provision could ensure that licence holders no longer have an urgent status. Can the Minister clarify this? However, a humane provision of housing for refugees must be ensured. The main problems, however, lie in the medium and long term. Additional social housing needs to be made available as lightning, by building or by any other means. When does the Minister come up with more concrete plans for this? I'm making a little bridge to the Transition Agenda Langer independent living. In June of this year we received a report from the chasing team to ensure that the shortage of suitable homes for people with a care demand is addressed. The chasing team spoke with municipalities and housing corporations, mediated here and arranged there and provided us with this interim report. That was a year after the start date. It's not gonna work out that way. Not to mention the policy agenda for this budget. The cabinet indicates that it has identified four transcendent priorities of national importance: affordability and availability; energy-efficient social housing stock; housing of urgent target groups; and achieving living with care and elderly housing. It is striking that these last two points are not worked out. That doesn't give us much urgency. 50PLUS did find some kind of effect in the letter from the Secretary of State of 22 June, but it was not concrete. I find this shocking, in particular the remark that the parties concerned must develop a compass on the basis of which they can jointly coordinate their policies. So there is not yet such a common policy. There is therefore insufficient understanding of current and future supply and demand. So there is not enough contact between the parties involved. That's not gonna make any sense. The problem is urgent and is only getting bigger. For example, this weekend we read that in large parts of Amsterdam there are too few affordable homes available for older people. An error of assessment, as it was said. You can't do that. We rely on the expertise and choices of local parties, in this case municipalities. But also corporations sometimes make other choices, which are not necessarily driven by social interest. All in all, 50PLUS really sees too little progress. We see initiatives and ideas, but not enough. That's not how we get there. We must realise that in four years' time half the population will be 50 or older. So the problem will only get bigger. The availability of suitable housing for this group is absolutely necessary. Action is needed now. To say it popularly, I wanted to say something about "cleaning." In Rotterdam they have a proverb for that, but I will not say that in this area. The Minister, together with the Secretary of State of VWS, must take control. A transcendent plan is needed, for example by analogy with the National Student Housing Action Plan, which already started in 2011. This is a multi-annual programme which the Minister recently informed us is paying off. 50PLUS has already proposed the creation of a national action plan for older people's housing, setting out concrete objectives, avoiding unorthodox measures and allocating an appropriate budget. I would like to propose that again. 50PLUS is considering submitting an amendment to this effect. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. In the past year, there have been several reports of fire in senior complexes. Yesterday it was time again. There have been many deaths or injuries. For many experts and for 50PLUS a reason to ring the bell. Fire safety in these complexes is a matter that deserves more attention and action. There appears to be no special fire safety requirements. The regular requirements of the home provision are applicable. However, special requirements are needed because they concern people who may be less mobile or hearing impaired, or who are less able to oversee them. In addition, the number of senior complexes is increasing. It is therefore necessary for this group's residential safety to give priority to this. That's hardly happening right now. In view of this, what does the Minister think of the idea of adapting the building decision and bringing seniors complexes under the rules for "living function for care," so that at least a fire alarm system should be in place? Is he willing to investigate this? Is he also willing, for the safety of the residents, to register senior complexes as separate forms of housing? This prevents senior housing from being withdrawn from the market by the owners. That happened recently in Hoogeveen. Does the Minister have any plans for this? 50PLUS also calls for attention to be paid to the awareness of the dangers of house fire and, in particular, to prevention. In fact, there is an increasing number of elderly people living in neighbourhoods who are in need of care, and this can lead to dangerous situations. Think of last week's report that elderly people living at home are becoming more and more exposed to burns in the emergency room. At present, the fire prevention weeks are taking place, which will last until 31 October. Seniors are the spearhead in this. That's good. Among other things, Brandweer Nederland argues for the obligation of smoke detectors in all homes. What does the Minister think of the idea of legally anchoring this? Does he agree with 50PLUS and Fire Department Netherlands that such a measure can save lives? I would like to receive a response to this. The Minister announced this week that he would not want to make an exception to the standard of adequacy for care homes. This is, by the way, contrary to the advice of Aedes and ActiZ. 50PLUS can still follow the argument of the affordability of the homes. The higher price is not primarily due to the quality of the houses, but also to the limited availability. However, the Minister does not offer any solutions. Additional efforts must be made to meet the standard. There would be countless other ways for corporations to meet the need, but this is not happening enough. That's one of the roots of the problem. The waiting list for this type of housing will increase. The Minister himself states that there is no clear definition of the concept of "care home." Shouldn't we start with that? Shouldn't we even define what a care home is and what a senior apartment is? That way we record what's already there, what we need and how we get there. That is very important in order to achieve that availability, affordability and fire safety that I have just mentioned. Does the Minister agree with 50PLUS? Is he prepared to table with the parties to discuss this and inform the Chamber about it? Recently, we have heard several times about products to redeem the mortgage. In particular, it concerns older people with AOW and a small or no pension, whose capital is in the stones. The sounds about these products are diverse. Older people who use it often lose a relatively large proportion of their housing value. The terms and conditions vary from one provider to another, but the most important thing should be to improve the customer. That is not the case now. In the short term, older people have more scope to pay for their care, for example, but they often have to give up disproportionately. Also the Association Eigen Huis is not satisfied. In order to prevent the creation of a new financial malpractice that strangles people in an already difficult situation, I ask if the Minister is prepared to launch an investigation into this type of product, if necessary in consultation with his colleague from Finance. What products are on the market? What conditions are attached to this? What is the quality of this? Is the consumer sufficiently protected? Is the Minister prepared to make an inventory of this? Just before the summer recess, 50PLUS asked for a transfer of the rental agreement. Is the Minister prepared to include private landlords in the rent-based approach? Now that this applies only to corporations, there is a skewed ratio in the possible rent increase. Private tenants will suffer from this. Then I come to the landlord's tax and the rent supplement. The Minister wants to synchronise the increase in the landlord's levy with a decrease in the rent surcharge. That is a very strange construction, as tenants of corporation homes are actually raising their own rent allowance. Is the Minister prepared to reconsider this? The elderly allowance is abolished, which means that many people no longer meet the criteria for the rent allowance. It's about 10,000 people, to be exact. They are falling sharply, also because most of them will lose their care allowance. How are they compensated? In any case, the landlord's tax 50PLUS is a thorn in view of the sufficient availability of homes for the elderly. What does the Minister think of the idea of allowing the Landlord Tax Reduction Scheme to apply to landlords who invest in senior homes or care homes? Finally, a comment on the renovation of the Binnenhof. We are going to debate it, but for now: 50PLUS believes that the most cost-effective solution should be chosen. If that means closing the Binnenhof for five years, so be it. As far as we are concerned, it is not appropriate, for sentimental reasons, to spend some 125 million extra. This cannot be explained to the citizen who has to turn in so much himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u210	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers to my written questions. You will not be surprised that my contribution mainly relates to social housing. I would certainly like to go back to the parliamentary inquiry on housing corporations, not to get old cows out of the way, but to see if we in Parliament are keeping our finger on the pulse and to check to what extent the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry have actually led to policy changes, all for the benefit of and in the interests of the tenants. First, I want to refer to a masterclass housing corporations, which I participated in two weeks ago. The public consisted of directors and supervisors of housing corporations. The conversations with these people revealed shocking things. The majority of those present, representatives of small and medium-sized corporations who had nothing to do with the incidents that led to the survey, found the new House Act before the stage, its purpose passed, a rule reflex, a no-mendall, I even heard say. On the one hand, this is shocking, because an important piece of legislation seems to have very little support for the intended practitioners, and on the other hand, because we in the Chamber must continue to be self-reflected. The results of the two-year survey showed that over the years the Chamber, in its varying composition, has not sufficiently kept its finger on the pulse. I'm picking up that glove right now by asking for it myself. That is why I would like to offer a small analysis to the fellow spokesmen and also to the Minister. My small group made them themselves. This analysis deals with the impact of the Parliamentary Housing Corporations survey and, in particular, with the impact of the recommendations on policy and the extent to which those recommendations and sub-recommendations have been translated into policy, or rather. in the new Housing Act. Mr. Chairman. Thanks in advance for the spread. From the analysis you can make out that there is still a summary of graphs in the back, so you don't have to go all the way through the book that, on balance, directly or indirectly, roughly 75% of the recommendations have found their way to new regulations. This can also be read digitally on my website: www.rolandvanvliet.nu. So roughly 75%, and that at record rate. I am pleased with that. The link with the sector must be maintained, especially as most housing corporations do good work and, unfortunately, sometimes suffer from the evils. How does the Minister himself relate and relate to the sector? Is that just through Aedes, the dome, or maybe not through Aedes? The sounds that reach me are that Aedes is struggling with a reducing support base among his own supporters. I hope the Minister also has other channels to keep that connection with the sector. The Authority housing corporations is the new supervisor and hangs under the Inspection Environment and Transport. I indicated at the time that this construction does not deserve the beauty prize. After all, the new integrated supervisor had to have enough of his own face. In addition, the ILT works on the basis of a ticking culture: how much manure is in the cart? The housing authority, on the other hand, should really dive into it. I don't mean in the manure, but in the matter of corporations. I understand now that the fear can be realized that the home authority has already been infected by this culture of ticking. I heard that directors and supervisors are horribly annoyed by the long lists and forms they have to fill out and send to the home authority. I've been told there's one official available as a point of contact. What's wrong with this? What's going on with the Authority housing corporations? How many people are sitting there now and how do we keep our finger on the wrist so that it doesn't just become a rigid ticking club like the ILT in general? In addition, the ILT states that a sloppy EUR 15 million contribution levy is to be paid annually by the housing corporations in order to bear the costs of supervision. Where's that money going? Are there more activities and people in the Authority housing corporations than before with the Central Fund Housing and the old ILT together? In order to assess whether the new Housing Act and everything around it is functioning properly, the state of housing is crucial. It will come in February 2016, as I understand it, and is based on four priority themes. The Minister writes that it is a zero measurement because of the discounting of the four priorities mentioned in the policy from the beginning of 2016. How can the Chamber already have a brief but clear view, which shows how the implementation of the Housing Act is going? I read that municipalities such as Amsterdam and The Hague have now made performance agreements with the corporations. Greetings for that! They're picking up the glove. At the same time, the aldermen point out that the combination of the new rental agreement, the rising landlord's levy and the more expensive guarantee put the financial strength of the corporations under great pressure. Can the Minister answer the question of how he monitors that agreements remain financially feasible? The Minister replied to my written question as to whether sufficient social housing would remain available when the free sector was stimulated by his department, which would promote the emergence of out-of-target people from social housing. This is a noble ambition, but how close is this vision when we look at the really huge waiting lists in many municipalities? Is the flow of part of the crooked really gonna shorten those waiting lists? What are the waiting lists going to look like when more priority allocations are being made to status holders, for example? The lease agreement refers to a five-year income test. Why not per year, per two years or every three years to speed things up? I will continue with the financial consequences of the lease and allocate it appropriately. As the Authority proposes housing corporations and also the Social Housing Fund, there will be negative financial consequences, which vary by corporation. The Minister states that the solution of a weak financial position of a corporation, if the use of measures at individual level is really insufficient, must be sought at system level. He cites as examples the transfer of portfolios, the merging with another corporation or a reorganisation. The latter surprises me. I find that not only a very easy, somewhat populist-sounding solution, it is also unacceptable. On the one hand, you conclude agreements, which involve a risk of financial impairment, and on the other hand you want to use a legal instrument, a mechanism such as the restructuring levy, to remove those adverse financial consequences. This is a matter of putting the horse behind the cart. The restructuring levy is not intended for this purpose. Does the Minister think that this is an inappropriate solution? How does he look at this example given by himself? Couldn't there also be a bankruptcy here of a corporation that doesn't have its business in order? Finally, I come to the second central issue in the housing sector. That's the shrinkage, shrinkage and shrinkage. I've been to corporations that work in shrinking areas myself. You can't imagine how this affects everything these people do every day. The major housing problem in shrinking areas is not in the social housing. Mr De Vries has already said this. There is also a lot of old rubbish being demolished, in consultation between municipalities and corporations. So the social housing is doing well; there are even waiting lists. No, Mr. President, the problem in those shrinking areas is in the retail market. I am concerned, others also said that the Minister is only committed to the shrinkage problem until 2019. I hope he keeps an eye on that and wants to take away our concerns. Differentiation in the landlord's tax could be an important tool to develop, to give those additional impulses. Finally, we are going to have a debate with each other on the financial aspects of the guarantee system of the Social Housing Guarantee Fund. I will not go into the substance of this now, but I look forward to that debate, because it has been a final part of the survey, which has not yet reached full maturity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-07-tweedekamer-3.u211	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. For those who are interested in the treatment of the Housing and Rijksdienst budget, I note that the government will respond in the first term tomorrow.
