ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Vulnerable. In addition to this minister, it was a vulnerable choice to send the king to pay tribute to the deceased Saudi leader Abdullah. After all, this cabinet says: "The relations between the Netherlands and Saudi Arabia are good. The country has a strong chance for Dutch industry, especially in the areas of water management, infrastructure, education and energy." "Good relations," so, "opportunity for business." The Prime Minister therefore considered it logical to be heavily present in Riyadh, just as he considered it quite normal to be present at the Winter Games in Sochi with the worst possible delegation ever. But this Prime Minister's choice is vulnerable. Saudi Arabia is dangling at the bottom when it comes to human rights. It is a country where the death penalty is on homosexuality, where women are not allowed to drive, where demonstrations are not allowed and where they publicly decapitate people. After the attacks in Paris, the Saudi ambassador followed the demonstrations in Paris for freedom of expression. A week later, the blogger Badawi got 1,000 canings because of his opinion. Yet our king was going to pay his respects to this leader. I have just one question on this: why did the cabinet make this choice? Why wasn't Minister Koenders enough? Why not follow the example of Germany, which former President Wulff sent? Why does the cabinet make the king so vulnerable in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. The Netherlands and Saudi Arabia maintain broad relations with each other, such as in the field of security, for example in the fight against ISIS and anti-terrorism, and in the field of human rights. As one of the few countries, the Netherlands has publicly condemned the verdict against blogger Badawi and has also provoked an EU declaration, which has now led to a referral of that case to the Supreme Court. In addition, we have economic and trade relations. Among these broad relationships is that the last honour is properly paid, as was done on Saturday. In Saudi Arabia, kingship plays an essential role in this process, as in other countries in which relations are held. It is true that the kingship in Saudi Arabia is of a fundamentally different nature than in Europe. The presence of the kings of Spain, Belgium, Sweden, the Prince of Wales and the Grand Duke of Luxembourg highlight the importance of the royal family in the performance of the last honour. This also applies in the region to the King of Jordan. Of course, the proof of the last honour is separate from the fact that you can have differences of opinion. We have them, too. We have regularly ventilated them in a very clear way. The Dutch Government does not therefore have any patches on its mouth. Only, we do not believe that isolation offers a good solution. It is precisely because of this broad approach that we have also been able to raise a number of points, which the D66 Group shares with the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u3	I thank the Minister for his answers. He talks about a broad relationship, in which there is room for trade relations and security. He also talks about proper goodbye to a king. He pointed out the presence of other royals from the European Union. But if you look at what is happening at this time in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia, at the way in which the leader of Saudi Arabia has shaped that kingdom over the past few years and at the unmistakeable violations of human rights in that country, which I have already mentioned in the first term, then I wonder whether the minister's reasoning outweighs the poor symbolism of the presence at the most serious level. We have, of course, seen before that the cabinet made the king vulnerable in this way. I mentioned Sochi. I can call it renovations. Now we see it again in Saudi Arabia. The Minister also talks about isolation. My group has not argued isolation. My group has said: go at the right level. Why did the minister take the king? Why didn't the minister go alone? It also had to do with a symbolic function in other matters, for example with the support that you can express and show to the opposition in a country and to those who do fight for freedom of expression. So is this cabinet not sending out the wrong signal now that it is coming to an end, namely that we are not side-by-side with the Badawis, but that we are paying tribute to an autocratic former leader of Saudi Arabia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u4	I think the opposite is true. The people who defend human rights in Saudi Arabia are not in favour of boycotting respect for the king of Saudi Arabia. It is precisely by means of the relations we have and the corresponding respect in a traditional society such as Saudi Arabia that we address the issues that need to be addressed. That's not symbolism. Mr Sjoerdsma also presented the symbol as such, but he did not address the importance of the royal family. He didn't have to go into that either. I have to do that myself. In relations, however, it is of special importance, even if this is fundamentally different, that the royal family is involved in the granting of respect for the death of a king. That is why almost all the royal houses of Europe, but also of the region, have been represented. Again, that's not the same as consent. I would have made the king more vulnerable if he hadn't been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u5	I feel like the Minister's doing it again. He's talking about boycotts, but that's not what's being advocated here. The question was, why does the minister take the king? Would it have been disrespectful if the minister had traveled alone? I don't think so. It's about the signal value of the king's presence. The Van Bommel/Sjoerdsma motion (32735, No. 96) calls for a more visible and active contribution to the fight against violations in that country. Does the presence of the king help with such a step?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u6	I'm sure you do. If you show respect to a country in a way that belongs to its traditions, it has nothing to do with consent in the field of human rights. The Dutch Government, in particular, has received a great deal of praise in the past period from organisations such as Amnesty. It is precisely because of the relationship that the Netherlands has that we raise human rights as others sometimes do not. It is also the Netherlands that raised the issue of that blogging, because of the importance of freedom of expression. I'll keep doing that, too. There's no limit on that. I would point out once again that human rights defenders do not ask for us to be represented at a lower level. That really is a domestic, Dutch discussion, which has little to do with the reality of other countries. Sometimes they're different. My belief is that we need to be as effective as possible in achieving what we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u7	I agree with the Minister that we need to look at effective ways of addressing countries' human rights issues, especially in the case of major human rights violations such as Saudi Arabia. We have the decapitation of that woman in that square last week still on the retina. That is why I think the next question might be even more important than the question put by Mr Sjoerdsma. Did the government and the Minister also take advantage of the opportunity to raise human rights during this visit, even if the reason was to show respect for death?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u8	The answer is no. It was about a condolence, and we've been there for a very short time. But Mr Voordewind cannot conclude from this that we do not and that we did not do so last week and that we did not do so during the visit of the human rights ambassador. He was there in December. These rights will also be addressed in future contacts with Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u9	Last Saturday there was an interesting state in the Volkskrant. It compared the sentences imposed by ISIS under Islamic law with those imposed by government under Islamic law in Saudi Arabia. In addition, decapitation is a very common punishment, for example in blasphemy. This also applies to cutting off hands, stoning people and other corporal punishments, such as caning and whipping.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u10	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u11	On the basis of that policy, Germany has said that it is pursuing a different policy towards Saudi Arabia compared to another average country.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u12	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u13	Namely: we do not send at high level...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u14	No, your time for asking the question is up now. You need to ask your question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u15	The question is: should the Netherlands not follow the German example and not just at a lower level that maintains relations, but should also, for example, impose an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia, as Germany recently did?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u16	Firstly, I naturally share the fundamental criticism of human rights violations. You know the same thing about me. I have fought for that in the past period, and I will continue to do so. You have also seen the Dutch position with regard to Badawi. This position is also beginning to produce results, precisely because we also have links with that country. If isolation were to work, the situation would be different, but that is not the issue here. Secondly, as far as Germany is concerned, the President of the Federal Republic and the Chancellor were not available for technical and personal reasons. That had little to do with political reasons. Moreover, there is no arms embargo by Germany against Saudi Arabia. I am sorry to disappoint you; you probably read that in the newspaper. Germany has exactly the same policy with regard to Saudi Arabia as the Netherlands, namely a restrictive arms export policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u17	The only question that really matters is whether Dutch policy, the broad approach, is working.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u18	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u19	I do not mean that in economic terms, because I am not concerned about that. I mean whether this will bring about something for those who, at risk of their own lives, often with payment of the ultimate price, are committed to human rights in Saudi Arabia. My conclusion is that this broad approach of the Netherlands has not helped the people of Saudi Arabia. I think that's because when it comes down to it, there's business as usual. Then we'll all go to Saudi Arabia and then we'll all trade or whatever we do there. Is it not time to review human rights policy in the context of this broad approach, for the simple reason that this has so far been unsuccessful?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u20	First of all, I do not agree with you that this is not working. Secondly, let us be honest; of course we also have trade interests and economic interests in Saudi Arabia. They are also part of the Dutch interest. I'm the last one to say this isn't the case. Much of the work of Dutch people is also dependent on Saudi Arabia. You say, however, that we have now made this a top priority for human rights policy. I really disagree with that. If that were the case, it could be, because in some cases this is a coincidence, I would find that incorrect. I think that we really need to talk about this in a different way. It is precisely because of the fact that I have just mentioned that, in a number of respects, we do not feel in any way constrained by the effective presentation of the human rights dialogue, as in the whole debate on Badawi. In fact, we think it is more effective not to isolate Saudi Arabia. It's a big country. I think it's an illusion to think that isolation makes a contribution to human rights there. That is not what the human rights defenders want either. They want those contacts, and I will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u21	It is not new that human rights are being undermined when these interests come into being, but I do think that a new low has been reached with the photo tweeted by the Dutch ambassador, which shows how our king is at audience with the new king Salman. That is a king to whom there is a whole history of involvement in the financing of criminal and terrorist organisations and of close ties with all kinds of extreme radical imams.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u22	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u23	Is the first thing we have to do when a new king comes to visit our king with such a figure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u24	I stand by the reasoning I have already put forward: the new king is condolences by the king of the Netherlands. I think that, for the reasons I have just indicated, is a Dutch interest. This is a combination of a number of interests which we have, and which, as far as I am concerned, are not subordinate to human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-01-27-tweedekamer-2.u25	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
