ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. The application of ICT is crucial for the functioning of our society and also for the functioning of our government. In daily life the car can not function without ICT, our phones now contain more computer capacity than the rocket with which the first people were put on the moon, but also for the functioning of the government itself ICT is indispensable. The government could not even function without large ICT projects. This ICT is also an integral part of every area of public action, including any policy area of the members of the Cabinet and any policy area that is discussed here in the Chamber. Whether it's a tunnel or a tunnel, today it's also largely an ICT project: study funding, rent allowance, landlord's tax, social security, the AOW, employee insurance; it's all possible without ICT. We are happy to see major advances being made both in society and in government. Cars are more economical, phones can do more and we can't run these large applications like study funding or the AOW without ICT. We note that this is a complex tension. On the one hand, we can't live without that ICT. If we look purely at the ICT in the government, we see the subject of today's debate and put the Netherlands past the measuring bar, we generally get quite a lot out of it. Whether the European Union or the United Nations are looking at how the inhabitants of countries are served with government ICT, the Netherlands generally comes out as one of the top performers. It is also true that we all have a huge annoyance about those projects where things go wrong, which do not lead at all to a working system, which last too long or which are too expensive. It is crucial that, on the one hand, we do not cramp and, on the other hand, we do not dare to continue with ICT projects. Again, the government could not function at all without ICT and political ambitions could not be implemented. So we shouldn't shoot into that cramp. At the same time, we must also learn from the mistakes made. We must also learn from the successes that have been achieved. My great appreciation for the committee's report, led by Mr Elias, therefore lies in the fact that we are being presented with learning and improving it. The committee has drawn this up in 34 recommendations setting out what needs to be addressed and what needs to be done. This does not guarantee that nothing will ever go wrong again; where work is being done, unfortunately things may go wrong, but the projects with which it has not gone well enough in recent years will teach us that if attention is paid to certain aspects, we have a much greater chance that these projects will work, within the time and within the estimated costs. That is why I have indicated in my letter that I am simply taking over the vast majority of the recommendations. I'm not just taking over, I've already started working on it. Mrs Gesthuizen asked what I have already done. As the Elias Committee itself recommends, we did not wait but immediately started building our own knowledge, for example, by expanding the interim pool. We have started to expand the training capacity, tighten up the purchasing system and make preparations for the BIT. So, indeed, waiting here, as far as I'm concerned, is not an option. I will work in three blocks when I answer the questions. The first block will be on the BIT, the subject that asked the most attention in the contributions of Members of Parliament. The second block will be about dealing with the market: cooperation where this is at issue is sharp where it is at stake. The last block contains answers to several other questions that have been asked. Firstly, the establishment of BIT is indeed one of the most crucial recommendations of the Elias Commission. Everyone asked why the government deviates from a committee recommendation in this area, while recommendations in other areas are precisely endorsed by the government, such as those relating to positioning. Furthermore, we have been asked how we can ensure that the BIT can truly function independently and that the BIT gets teeth. The positioning has a constitutional reason and a reason that is related to the recommendation of the Elias Committee on another part. The constitutional reason is that the Prime Minister in the Netherlands monitors the unity of government policy. He's got a little device for that. The Ministry of General Affairs is the smallest department there is. The Prime Minister follows and monitors the implementation of the government agreement and coordination between departments, while everything that affects implementation is invested with a trade minister. For example, one of you drew the comparison with personnel matters, also a crucial part of the functioning of the government. The general staff policy has been assigned to me as a trade minister, not to the Ministry of General Affairs. Each trade minister is responsible for the number of people who work exactly at his or her ministry and for those who are accepted or dismissed, if that is the case. The reason for allowing the CIO to lead the BIT follows logically from the observation by the Elias Commission that the CIO has been in existence for a number of years and that there is indeed more coordination between the various ministries, but that it has not been sufficiently developed so far. He doesn't have enough perseverance. Now power of perseverance is a complex concept under state law. The Constitution states that a minister is responsible for his or her ministry and his or her policy area. The Chamber will judge him or her on that. In this case, therefore, the perseverance is with the Chamber. A minister or one of the officials under one minister has no right to block another minister. The Chamber has that right. Ministers never have that among themselves. At the same time, I share the ambition to give the CIO a much more influential position. Now that BIT gets a huge power. The BIT will make an analysis of every large, complex ICT project at the beginning and, where necessary, interim. Mrs. Gesthuizen asked for this. The BIT also publishes its findings. They will therefore become public and transparent. The Court receives them and therefore knows whether the opinion is that something should be done or not, or whether it should only be done if certain conditions are met. This means that the Chamber will address the trade minister on the basis of the BIT opinion, whether it is a tunnel project or an electronic patient file, to quote just a few examples that the Elias Commission has examined. If the Chamber receives a critical BIT opinion, then the spokesmen in the area of Traffic and Water State in the area of the tunnel or the spokesmen in the area of Health, Welfare and Sport in the area of electronic patient files will call the Minister to the Chamber. I don't know her any different than that. The spokesmen will say that the BIT advises negatively or sets a number of preconditions and they will ask: "Dear Minister, how are you going to ensure that that project is met?" Then it is the Chamber that says: the Minister is satisfied with us or not, so the Minister can or cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u2	Sounds like the Minister, he says at least, wants to give the BIT a huge power. I'm glad. It's very practical. The Minister speaks of "all major projects." Can he therefore indicate a limit, for example from a certain number of millions? What criteria are there? The Minister also says that BIT, for example, makes a very critical report, in which it says: do so, do not do so, or do so only if you have fulfilled these conditions. The BIT then sends it to the Chamber, which can then call the Minister to the Chamber. Does this mean that the BIT report is sent to the Chamber without any correction, without any suggestion, without any supplement from the Minister in charge, who may very much wish to continue his project? In other words, do we get the whole advice and nothing but the advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u3	The answer to that is yes. The answer to the first question put by a number of Members, across the border, is the second point on which I really depart from the opinion of the Elias Committee. The committee says: always do it for projects above 5 million. I propose that the limit be based on the combination of amount and complexity. The reason for this is that at a limit of 5 million, for example, a large purchase order office automation or a large order data connection would also have to pass a BIT test. You get a rather mechanical test on a number of projects. I think the combination with complexity is more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u4	Then I'd still like some butter with the fish. I would like to hear from the Minister at which borders he thinks. Do we have to talk about 5, 7 or 10 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u5	I just think a sum is a simplification. The Court then receives a BIT test for a number of projects, of which I have just mentioned the examples. That is possible; I will not resist this until my death, but in part it will be a rather mechanical BIT test. Data connections are very important but technically not very complex, but will quickly reach over 5 million. That's why I would combine the amount with the complexity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u6	There's talk about that. My main point has been that it is strange for an official to lead it when you want an independent watchdog who, as the minister says, can put the Chamber in a position to whistle back a trade minister from a failed project or a project that threatens to fail. The CIO Empire is a policy official who is a minister and therefore has no position to slow down political choices in a truly independent way. What is the Minister's answer to this hypothesis?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u7	In my view, it is inevitable that the structure in which we have shaped the democratic rule of law is covered by an official. That is also the case with the Elias Committee's choice, namely a BIT under General Affairs. The BIT would then fall under the General Affairs Secretary. In my opinion, the essential difference is not whether the BIT belongs to an official, which would be the case in both options, but to which politically responsible director it belongs. The Elias Committee's choice is the Prime Minister, the choice of me and the cabinet is: under the Minister for Housing and National Service. Once again, because we believe that the Ministry of General Affairs, by its very nature, is very unsuitable for this task. But there is also a clear political responsibility in the construction that I propose to you. On the functioning of the BIT, the Chamber can appeal to me, with all my responsibilities in all areas then being invested with officials. Ministerial responsibility implies that a minister cannot say: an official has found this or that, but that the minister is always responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u8	I like it because I want the BIT, once it is there, without the intervention of an official or without the restraining force of a ministry, to be able to simply write a letter: best Chamber, or: best Cabinet, if you are going to carry out this project, know that it will certainly be more expensive, that it is unrealistic or that it is totally useless, appropriate to the purpose you are pursuing. In short, I do not want anyone to be able, for example, to slow down such a letter in the interim. My feeling is that the Minister has in no way taken away that the CIO Empire, which is the boss of BIT, is simply an official who can be directed by the Minister not to send, for example, a critical letter about a project. In that case, independence is gone. I am thinking much more of an authority similar to, for example, an ACM authority, which is really remote from the Ministry and can write a letter independently. A planning agency is independent and can independently write a letter, an inspection is independent and can independently write a letter. In the meantime, the Minister is much more on the line to place it with a policy department. There's the crucial difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u9	In reply to Mrs Gesthuizen's question, I indicated that the BIT opinion "Whether it is critical or positive" goes to the Chamber unchanged. The Chamber shall then take the action which the Chamber considers appropriate. Mr Verhoeven mentions a number of variants which are different from those mentioned by the Elias Committee, because the Elias Committee's proposal also means that the CIO Empire is under ministerial responsibility and then under an official. The constructions mentioned by Mr Verhoeven are inspection-like constructions. If I may interpret it quite frankly, I think it would go a long way to setting up an independent institution in addition to the General Court, which has already published a great deal on this subject absolutely independently and will not hesitate to do so again. In my opinion, it is crucial for the better functioning of ICT within the government that it really comes entirely into the DNA of that government and also of the politically responsible, that ICT is a crucial part of what we do. The following strikes me, to make a disrespectful comparison. We have many safeguards in new legislation, and rightly so. We're gonna consult first. Then we go to the Council of State and then to the Lower House and to the Upper House. If I compare that with the guarantees of an ICT project, then those guarantees are much thinner. Thus, the way in which politics and the administrative organisation function is not sufficiently focused on the great importance and vulnerability of ICT. I think that this report makes that clear. In my view, this will only be improved if you make the political responsibility for ICT projects very clear. If, as in my case, you're talking about an income-dependent rent increase or the repayment of the mortgage, then you're also responsible for the proper execution. You should not delegate that to another minister or to an independent institution. You're responsible for that yourself. Your own responsibility and the supervisory authority of the Chamber can get much better by taking an objective test. But that responsibility must remain with the trade minister and the officials who are covered by it. Mr. Chairman. Mrs De Caluwe asked whether we would also apply the 'farmer understanding rules' of the Elias Committee in the operation of the BIT. The answer to that is yes. We're going to operationalize them. I'll share them with the room, too. My ambition is to do that before the summer, but we will indeed apply it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u10	I also have a question about this, but first I would like to come back to the 5 million border which the Minister was just talking about. Do you need to look more closely at the complexity of projects before letting them be tested by the BIT or do you need to strictly stick to the 5 million limit? I indicated in my first term that it is very sympathetic to look at the complexity. I understand that very well, but then you also have to define what complexity is. My proposal to the Minister is: can we not send everything above 5 million to the BIT for a year and see what the purely technical review is and then evaluate after a year? Then we can see which projects do have to go to BIT and which projects do not. Then you know a little more what you're talking about. If, in fact, they are very technical projects, then they will also be ready quite quickly if they are placed along the bar of the farmers' understanding rules, which I also hope the Minister will make SMART. I have now also processed my second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u11	I already indicated the dilemmas leading to the 5 million-dollar limit. It's more than 100 projects, but I already indicated that I won't resist it until I die. I can get out of the way with the wording 'let's start with a limit of 5 million and then look again at whether it works like the Chamber and I think it makes sense'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u12	By whom and how will the BIT work programme be determined? That's what I'm curious about. The Minister just said that the reports will of course come to the Chamber, but how is it determined what the BIT investigation is going to do and who is decisive in doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u13	That is the discussion we have just had. We have just set the limit on projects from 5 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u14	If that's a commitment, we've now figured out here that the border is 5 million. Well, that's good. Then the answer to that question is clear. However, we are all here today, including Mrs Oosenbrug, at the interrupt microphone to ask about the perseverance of the BIT, the German shepherd I am looking for. Is the Minister prepared to send the institution's decision to the Chamber for information? Only then will we really know what these powers will be. Until now, even after the interrupting debates that have taken place here, I keep the feeling that we are going to make political decision-making and political considerations a part of the work that BIT has to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u15	This is a different question from that concerning the area of activity, but I have no objection to sending the institution decision to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mrs. De Caluwe asked... there she is again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u18	I've heard you in this round, Mrs. De Caluwe, but let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u19	Thank you. I will not make a habit of getting up every two minutes; I promise you that, Mr President. I heard the Minister has no objection to sending the institution decision to the Chamber. I indicated in the first period that at least there are conditions for BIT. For example, can the Minister include in such an institutional decision that the staffing of BIT should be independent, that ministers should be required to provide information to BIT, that the independence and quality of BIT should be monitored and that a deviation from a BIT judgment should be passed by the Council of Ministers and then, reasonedly, sent to the Chamber? Can such requirements or components be included in such an institutional decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u20	This happened so fast, I can't just say yes to everything. To a large extent, the answer will be yes, but the advantage of sharing the institution's decision with the Court is that you can assess it at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u21	I will respond to the Minister: I will list everything in the second term. Perhaps I will put that in a motion, so that what could be included in the institutional decision is written in black and white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u22	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mrs De Caluwe asked what would happen to the Gateway Reviews that will be deployed as soon as there is a BIT test. A Gateway Review is a closed process. This has the advantage of allowing the manager to share doubts and concerns openly on a journey that does not necessarily have to be an ICT journey. So I would really like the Gateway Review instrument to exist alongside the BIT test, which has the power of transparency. Mrs Gesthuizen I miss her now, but she can read this question if the BIT can also go mid-term. If there is reason to do so and if there are concerns about a project, the BIT will also go mid-term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mrs. Gesthuizen has arrived again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u25	Sorry. On this particular point of interim testing, I wonder exactly how that will go. Is the BIT's help invoked? Can the BIT itself say that it sees that something is not going well? What signals could be sent by the BIT? How am I supposed to practically see this before me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u26	I don't think you should standardize every project in between, especially now that we're drawing a very digital line at 5 million in the first year. They will therefore be projects that were of concern at the outset, or projects that, due to their size and complexity, require extra attention in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u27	Maybe someone else is feeling a little compassionate with me; I'm still looking for something concrete. I understand the Minister who says: we are not going to present everything that has to do with simple matters to BIT, but I can also imagine that you do and that the BIT says: we do not think this is testable, we can quickly get a scratch underneath it, because we do not even have to look at it. It only becomes more complicated when it comes to ongoing projects. What are the signals? How am I supposed to see that process? When will something be submitted to the BIT? Or should the BIT always act on its own?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u28	We could probably try to make some sort of manual. It seems vulnerable to me, because then you'll create your own sense of character. Then we are going to draw a line and make a whole framework of when we do have an intermediate test and when we do not have an intermediate test, to make the criteria I mentioned more precise. If the first BIT key at the start of the project gives cause for concern or if it is a large and complex project, then an intermediate key makes sense. I think we can make such a manual together, but I have also heard the concern of the Chamber that we should not make it too bureaucratic. Let me put it this way: making a manual isn't that difficult. I doubt it's gonna get any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u29	A Handbook Tomato in our election campaign is always very useful and very helpful.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u30	I've never read it, but I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u31	That is certainly the intention! Maybe the minister and I can find each other. If those involved in a project could be the software developers, but also officials in ministries or organisations, at ZBO's say: hey, something is not going well at all... If these people, you could call them whistleblowers, could submit a request to the BIT and the BIT would take that kind of signals seriously, then a great concern would have been taken away from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u32	Then I wonder again if that is a correct description of the type of care you may encounter. You can have a purely whistle-blowering problem, or you can get signals from a very different angle than this group. That confirms me in the reasoning I just had. Be very careful to arrange at the beginning of a new trajectory, the BIT trajectory, very precisely when and when there should be no intermediate test. We're on it now. Anyway, after the first year, we're going to take another critical look at whether it's going to produce what we expected with each other. I wouldn't want to settle it endlessly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u33	I would not want a handbook, because it is not feasible for ICT projects. I find it worrying that you are now saying: if at the start of a project there is nothing going on, just keep going, while we have learned from practice that things are going very well at the beginning, but that no one will ring the bell when things go wrong halfway. I would like to make it even more clear how we, as a Chamber, accept our responsibilities, because that is what we will have to do. How do we get enough grip on it to ensure that we can take an interim test? That doesn't have to go according to a fixed pattern or a ticking list. Do we have the opportunity to ensure that an interim test can take place? Or how do we get that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u34	I think it makes sense for the Chamber to ask for an interim BIT test. That will often be because the spokesmen in a discussion with the trade minister about a tunnel, an electronic patient file or one of those other examples say: we are not entirely satisfied, can we get another BIT test?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u35	As MPs, we are also fed by people from outside. We will still be able to ask for a mid-term test. That is an intermediate step, but I am reassured that we as a Chamber can always do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u36	The intermediate test is one of the important things. I suggest you just set up that you always take an intermediate test halfway through a project. If it turns out everything's going well, it could just be an A4's. Why don't we do it that way? Then you have much more a stick behind the door than when you say that the Chamber should only ask for an interim test. The Chamber is not daily watching how ICT projects are doing. You can't expect that from the Chamber either, because that's execution. If you turn it around, you give the room a handle to look at at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u37	The wording "the Chamber should only ask for a BIT test" was not mine. I have indicated that it is logical to find that a mid-term BIT test is taking place in large complex projects or projects where there are concerns at the beginning. I have also said that it is logical that such a test should take place if the Chamber so requests. If we always take an interim BIT test, my concern is that we will create a bureaucratic ticking system. I thought I heard this concern in the contributions of many speakers, and I believe that Mr Verhoeven himself did. When we only work on the basis of the amount and always mid-term tests, that actually removes responsibilities. Moreover, it creates bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u38	I'll think about that for a while. I am only concerned with one thing: the independence of that agency. I can see that the Minister also wants an independent agency in a certain way, but also that he thinks that we can always organise it in a certain way. He says, "It always ends up under an official." I think you have all kinds of different forms that allow you to regulate that independence. The minister says, "I'm among the highest ICT official we have." But there are many other ways in which you can make a certain organization judge independently. I'm thinking planning agencies, the College Protection Personal Data. These are all organisations with a certain independent advisory capacity. The way the Minister wants to organise the BIT I don't see getting that status. That's where I care. Will the Minister go into that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u39	I'm not arguing that there are many other methods. I have just indicated that we know the models of inspections or the General Court. I am not going to go along with the Elias Committee's recommendation, but I am much closer to it than any other model. In the recommendation of the Elias Commission, it is also under the political responsibility of a government representative and is therefore part of the official organisation. This is not in itself a problem for the functioning of our society. That is precisely the way in which we have consciously implemented democratic control. Independence and teeth are in the right to publish him, in the right of the Chamber to hold the trade minister to account and in the right of the Chamber to ask for that judgment in the interim. Surely there's nothing so purifying for projects that threaten to go wrong as a public judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u40	Is it true that I have just heard the Minister say that BIT, in his view, must come under the political responsibility of the ruler?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u41	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u42	How does that relate to what the Minister said earlier, namely that ministers cannot block each other? What then happens if the BIT comes to the conclusion under the responsibility of the Minister for Housing and Rijksdienst that an ICT project at another ministry becomes a tragedy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u43	Then the Chamber gets the BIT judgment. A concrete example: let's say it's a tunnel. Then the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment will call the Minister to the Chamber and say to her: it is not going well with that tunnel; what are you going to do about it? The committee will not allow that minister to go further, I suppose. This seems to me to be more democratically purer than the Minister for Housing and the National Service telling the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment what to do with a tunnel without the Court judging it. That would be a very strange figure of democracy and state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u44	I'm really sorry about this. Disfunctioning the government in the field of ICT à raison from 1 to 5 billion a year is nicely thrown here in the political arena. That's not how you take the Elias Committee's report seriously, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u45	I cannot imagine that the Chamber would wish that without the intervention of the Chamber the Minister for Housing and National Service could say'stop with that tunnel' or'stop with an electronic patient file'. Isn't that at the heart of the policy, the heart of the political process? Mr Verhoeven asked about the humanisation of BIT how I see it in internals and externals. I intend to use a solid core of 15 internal experts, which, in addition to the BIT test, will also ensure that the knowledge gained on ICT projects is preserved and shared. Around this comes a flexible shell in which external experts will also be explicitly involved, so that the evaluation of concrete projects can use changing services and changing backgrounds. Mrs Oosenbrug asked whether projects of ZBOs could also be subject to a BIT test. She pointed out the somewhat complex legal position of the Zbos. They have been deliberately placed at a distance from politics and therefore from the minister as implementing organisations. Since the Minister of Trade has to approve the budget of a ZBO, we can agree that large projects of ZBOs should be submitted to the BIT along this route. That's what we'll do along that route. Mr Verhoeven asked why I did not opt for a legal basis for the BIT. In my opinion that is not necessary and it takes a lot of time. A legislative process quickly takes a year and a half. It requires a whole line of consultations from Council of State, Second Chamber and First Chamber, while the urgency of the subject does not lend itself to such a long period of waiting. That is why I have already started a number of steps. The assent decision that has already been mentioned can lead to the same result with a much shorter timetable. Mrs De Caluwe asked whether the BIT would also examine the management phase. I don't have that on the retina. I do not read in the report of the Elias Committee that there is still cause for concern when the project has been delivered and has become a running system. Here too, it is a matter of careful handling of your precious resources. I do not immediately see a reason for putting the BIT into the management phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u46	Maybe I can clarify something here. It wasn't about putting in the BIT. We are talking about the project phase, but of course there is also a management phase. That too is a waste, and my question is: what time will the Minister look at what waste is going to occur there and what tightening-up is needed where he is going to commit himself to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mrs de Caluwe would help me if she indicated the signs that would give rise to this. Again, I do not take from the committee's report or from other sources that we should have a lot of concerns once a system is in place. If those signals are there, I'll keep my recommendation. Without those signals, it's gonna be looking for a needle in a haystack.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u48	Once a system is running, it must also be maintained and adjusted. People are hired to manage it, and there's another hour's bill for that too. From the field I get signals that there is also the need to reduce waste. Hence my question. We're talking about the projects now. Does the Minister intend to look in the long term at what improvements can be achieved in the management phase?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u49	I really need concrete signals for this, otherwise this will really be looking for a needle in a haystack. I can't rule out the fact that Mrs De Caluwe is getting proper signals, but I really need them; then we can go more focused. I wanted to move from the questions about BIT to the questions about my handling of the market and the procurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u50	One more question about that BIT. How is the Minister going to ensure that an opinion from the BIT is not just one of the many opinions that a minister simply ignores or can accept?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u51	This is a public opinion. It's really a new instrument. It's a big deal when an opinion comes out on a big ICT project, for which you are responsible as a minister, and that advice is critical or negative. I would have done so, but my colleagues will be in no other position to act immediately. And if we didn't do that on our own, the Chamber, the ICT world and the media would of course be on top of that. Again, this is a big deal. The Chamber gets it and it's published. So there is no escape for the person in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u52	I dare to fight that. Look at all the ICT projects of the past few years: they were constantly defended by the responsible ministers, even though they really fell apart in front of everyone. We all know these examples. Why can people carry on with these ICT projects if the advice is not to do so? Why isn't there automatism?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u53	The BIT will now be configured. The projects of recent years, to which Mr Fritsma just referred, were not subject to a BIT test. At their start, there was no publication of what experts and external experts thought about it. This is an incredibly powerful new instrument, which the Chamber will undoubtedly make full use of. Again, if a minister gets something like that on his desk, he's gonna get to work right away, right? This is a new instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u54	The Minister is right to say that this open opinion is a powerful tool and that all Members of Parliament can read it when something gets completely out of hand. My concern, however, is that there will never be such sharp advice, because it is an official who is dependent on his minister. He may be the boss of that agency, but he will somehow be forced to write down his advice more lightly because the Minister likes it. I've turned this record off a few times now, but I'm serious about this; I don't make this a song. In this way, there will be no strong advice, but a very shaky advice. And the Room keeps thinking at a distance that it's going well, just like with the dashboard. That's what I care about. Can the Minister go into this again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u55	I'm in on Mr Verhoeven's thought experiment. Suppose it happened the way he sketched it. This would mean that the BIT would bring out too mild opinions and approve projects that would not be approved. Shortly after the establishment of the BIT, it would appear that many projects are falling apart, despite the approval of the BIT. The Minister responsible will not get away with this and the CIO will not get away with it either. The Chamber and society as a whole will not accept this in any way. Here, too, there is the enormous power of transparency of opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u56	That transparency is indeed powerful, but we also had the dashboard and everyone got away with it. There must be an independent, harsh judgment, which is also real. If that judgment doesn't come to pass, it's all gonna fall apart. The BIT is apparently dysfunctional and the Minister can be called upon to do so. We can say afterwards that the Minister will not get away with it, but then, of course, we will have gone on for years. In this country there are many organisations that can freely advise, independently of a ministry, independently of a minister who is responsible, regardless of a high-level ICT official. The Minister has not yet removed my concern about a dampening, dampening effect on those advices, when the CIO Empire, led by a trade minister, is in charge of BIT. That is and will remain my concern. The Minister is quite willing to take a number of steps, but he does not want to move in this. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u57	I have indicated that the opinions are published and go to the Chamber unchanged. Mr Verhoeven asked about the composition of the BIT. There will be a solid internal core, which will be constantly complemented by a group of external experts, including from science or industry. So people from outside attach their reputation to a BIT judgment. That composition ensures in such an open structure that no information disappears under the tablecloth. I am truly convinced that in society nothing works as purifying as the bright light of transparency. Then I come to dealing with the market and the tenders. Mr Verhoeven asked how much we spend on ICT. We can now show how much we spend on purchasing ICT, so on the market. However, the internal costs, which you also have to allocate to ICT, cannot be properly drawn from the administration at the moment. Think of your own employees who are fully or partially active in this area, the own part of your accommodation or the part of your communication that you can also attribute to ICT. The General Court estimated in 2011 that a somewhat broader definition of ICT costs would lead to expenditure of over 2 billion per year. I believe that not only ICT spending in the market, but also internal costs should be better reflected. With this, I will follow a recommendation from the committee. This calls for an adjustment of the accounts. I'm gonna need some time to do that. My goal is to be able to give that information in the end. Mr Verhoeven specifically addressed the relationship between the market and the government, as he called it. He asked how that relationship could change. I agree with the observation that the Empire needs to have more of its own ICT expertise throughout the entire journey. The Empire must therefore have its own ICTs. That is why I have proposed as one of the measures to double our own ICT pool. The procurement and management of projects should also become more professional. That's why we started centralizing the procurement. In the past, a large IT supplier could deal with a lot of buyers, because each ministry did it itself. Now we combine the purchase. We ensure that there is one central point of contact per large enterprise. It also means that we are making the training battle not only in the field of pure ICT knowledge and the management of ICT, but also in the area of procurement. This does not mean that there can be no dialogue and no contacts between the Empire and business. Especially in a sector that is developing as fast as ICT, we must enter into dialogue with each other in a decent manner. That is also one of the committee's recommendations. This dialogue is therefore being conducted and we are continuing to pursue it in full. On balance, however, precisely because ICT is so crucial for the functioning of the government, we need to acquire more of our own knowledge, and that is what we are doing. External partners will also be hired in the future. That won't go away. Mrs De Caluwé's question is: if an external, individual consultant is hired, can we cancel in the meantime and what are the terms of the contract? The ARBIT also applies to an individual consultant and agreements can also be terminated in the interim. Mr Verhoeven asks: if there is malpractice, will there really be a cancellation in the future? The committee points out that this has happened too little in the past. In the event of failure, there is an escalation ladder of measures. These may amount to the dissolution of the agreement, to a courtroom, or ultimately to the termination of a relationship if there is a pattern of misconduct. We are looking at an adaptation of the contract forms so that we can integrate clear intermediate delivery and exit moments into the contracts. Mrs De Caluwe asked how we deal with the functional procurement of projects. Wherever possible, that trajectory will be deployed. It is not like that either. I do not read the committee's report that this is the only method. It makes sense to formulate instead of a few hours the outcome you expect from an ICT project, but that will not always work. I will have a more rigorous framework for consideration, which will be submitted to the Chamber in the context of the amendment of the Procurement Act, which Mr Kamp will send to the Chamber. Mrs Oosenbrug asked how we deal with open source software. Where possible and inexpensive, we now use open source software. That is not always more advantageous, by the way. While open source software does not have to pay for the software itself, the entire installation, implementation and update process does involve costs. So I cannot guarantee that in five years' time, for example, we will only be working with open source software. I can guarantee that we will always make that assessment explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u58	It is a well-known misunderstanding that open source is always cheaper. That should not be the starting point. The starting point of open source software should be that the source code is freely available. On systems for which open source software is possible, it is much better controlled by helping hackers among others. We pay a lot of projects with tax money. The advantage of open source is that ultimately we can freely return something to the citizen, provided it is not software that is sensitive or that we must keep away from others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u59	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u60	Is the Minister only looking at the costs or is he also looking at the feasibility and the social interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u61	We look not only at the costs, but also at the security side and the applicability in cooperation with other parts of the Rijksdienst. It is precisely this important aspect that ensures that different parts of the Empire can communicate well with each other via IT. So where we can do it, we also use it. I may have misunderstood Mrs Oosenbrug, but I heard her mention a five-year term. However, I cannot promise that in five years' time we will be working 100% with open source software.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u62	For clarification. My request was: as a government, make an exit procedure with which you can demonstrate that within five years you are no longer dependent on one supplier. It is not just about open source or close source, but also about the answer "no, unless." So we don't use another supplier, because there's no other way to do it because of security measures or whatever. So explain it to me. I now notice that there is a great deal of use being made of it, because it is the case. My request to the cabinet was clear. I said: make sure that within five years there is an exit strategy that will enable the government to at least explain that in five years' time it will be able to say goodbye to certain suppliers and that it will no longer depend on one supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u63	The dependence of a supplier is, of course, a great vulnerability, apart from ICT at all. In the ICT world, you can limit it not only through the open source route, but also through the open standard route. The latter is typically one of the things that we look at as standard when buying and purchasing. So we look at the open standards by default. Mr Verhoeven asked how we're going to avoid an hour's bill. The ARBIT conditions that we use when purchasing ICT services are always the first option for a supplier to assess whether a contract is feasible, giving information about it and thus making it compulsory to work only exceptionally on the basis of an hourly invoice. The question of whether the estimate of costs and capacity deployed is real is, of course, also typical of a feasibility test. If it's not real, you're gonna be in that unwanted hour-invoice trajectory. Hourly-invoice is not entirely avoidable, but with such a good input key the use of it can be greatly limited. Mrs Oosenbrug also asked me how I would implement the Oosenbrug/Van der Linden motion to adapt the ARBIT. We are currently going over the terms and conditions with the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. It is my intention to inform the Court of Justice this year about the adjustments to which this will lead. With this I hope to have answered the questions about dealing with the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u64	I asked another question about the market dialogue. Has the Minister replied to this question in his reply, or has he indeed failed to answer it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u65	I was hoping to have answered that by stating first of all that I do believe that the government should be able to do more on its own in this area. I fill that in with a doubling of our own IT pool, centralising procurement, setting up a category manager per major IT provider and targeting training people in the field of IT procurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u66	I think I meant something completely different. As far as I am concerned, the market dialogue is one of the difficult areas of tension. You want to know at the beginning of course about the possibilities that exist in the market. The committee has made recommendations on this. The Minister has written that this could go through the Procurement Act, but he does not want to regulate it legally. At the end, of course, you also want to settle in dialogue with the market on the basis of performance. So I want a clearer way of dealing with the market both at the front and at the back. I want to look at the possibilities at the beginning and at the end I want to say much more specifically: you have not delivered, so we go to court, we connect the contract, we don't go to sea with you anymore, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u67	I was hoping to answer that part too. I have indicated that Mr Kamp will be bringing forward an amendment to the Procurement Act this summer. The procurement law does not allow, because of the level playing field, to go into a project with one or a few parties in depth, but that dialogue with the market is desirable. It has to be done in a decent way. Hence the forthcoming amendment of the Procurement Act. As far as the end of the journey is concerned, I have to ask whether, in future, the Empire will actually terminate contracts and, where necessary, go to court, with a full 'yes' answer. Mr Verhoeven asked whether the Interim Pole Empire was comparable to the MIT, which was discussed with Mr Elias during the debate. As I understand it, that MIT is a summary of a mobile team. The interims from the interim pole will not always be used as a team, but apart from that aspect I can only conclude that we both mean the same thing. The Empire must have flexible ICT professionals and more than is currently the case. Mr Verhoeven asked extensively about the role of the national cloud. He asked more specifically about European connections. Cloud technology is not just a marketing gimmick. The core of that is that you don't have the software on the hard drive anymore. Who else has one of those? But it's accessible over the Internet. The same applies to data. All our beautiful iPhones and iPads work that way. A large organisation such as the Empire also makes the data files and software available via cloud technology. It is precisely because of the great importance of security and privacy that we have chosen to do so with our own national data centres, although we realized that it might have been cheaper with commercial data centres. However, precisely in order to respond to the concerns expressed by Mr Verhoeven, we have decided to manage such a vital part of the Empire in national data centres. Connecting to data centres in Europe is on an exceptional basis. For example, there are routes around freight and customs, where you inevitably have cross-border information exchange. Mr Verhoeven, but also Mrs De Caluwé and Mrs Van Gesthuizen asked how we would proceed with the ICT dashboard. The ICT dashboard was one of the subjects that I did not want to wait until after this debate, because it was clear that there had to be an improvement. So last year I sent a letter to the Chamber to announce that I would come up with a new dashboard. I have also indicated that I would like to have a debate with the Chamber on the information which the Chamber would like to have in addition to that. Mrs De Caluwe asked about the way in which the costs and benefits are included. The costs are now included, but the benefits are always partly financial, partly also very qualitative. A change in tax or study funding based on a political desire does not necessarily aim to achieve savings on ICT. It probably has a political objective, with ICT creating conditions. I hope that Mrs De Caluwé will forgive me for the fact that the cost side is always fairly straightforward in hard euros, while the benefit side is often more qualitative. We're really trying to make a move to improve that. Asked what we can get back for the fact that the non-working traffic lights problem is gone. It seems very obvious to me that the BIT judgment becomes an integral part of the ICT dashboard, which shows how projects stand. So that's what we'll add. Mr Verhoeven specifically asked how the privacy of the information is guaranteed. As I pointed out, this is actually the crucial reason why we have chosen to shape the national cloud through our own data centres. In addition, we have comprehensive instructions and guarantees for all employees involved in ICT, i.e. everyone, regarding the handling of information. Its proper application is also regularly monitored. Indeed, all this is crucial for citizens' confidence. I hope I have answered the questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u68	Thank you. I see that Mr Fritsma has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u69	The Minister has not yet answered my question about the government in general. Does the Minister recognise that the problems with ICT are also an expression of administrative problems within the government in general? I am referring, for example, to poor management.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u70	That is such a general statement that it is difficult for me to endorse it. I share the Elias Committee's analysis that too often it is not clear what the purpose of an IT project is, what costs may be involved and what time span. I also share the analysis that there is insufficient expertise. That's why I'm proposing a whole pallet of measures. At the same time, we are pleased to note that the study funding, the AOW and all the other essential provisions are in general working very well. So I don't think you can generally say it's a mess. But we need to be much sharper on that. I think I have also had a debate with Mr Fritsma once, for example on the income-dependent rent increase. I have also said of a wish from the PVV that adjusting on the basis of a change in income can only be done on the basis of the income of two years ago because our ICT is unable to deliver that data more quickly. I believe that we have finally agreed on this. But there is always the question of whether it can be done and whether it can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u71	Between 1 and 5 billion euros have gone up in smoke, partly because of pure government mismanagement. Can the Minister simply acknowledge that mismanagement has played a role and that improvements have also been made in this regard? Surely you can't insist that the point of mismanagement can be seen separately from all these ICT debacles?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u72	The need for tightening up in the management of ICT projects is the reason why I am here before you. The amounts involved are one of the subjects of discussion which the Elias Committee has also been struggling with. That is one of the reasons why I say that I also want to better reflect the total IT costs, but if you and I were okay with it, we wouldn't have been here. Hence the whole package of measures we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u73	Thank you. In some groups there is a need for a break for some consultation. D66 wants five minutes, the CDA has requested ten minutes. I'm suspending the meeting until 2:30 p.m. If it could be smoother, that would be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u74	I call Mr Verhoeven. You have two minutes, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u75	No, absolutely not. We've got longer, haven't we? We have a third of our time, so five minutes. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. The Minister has tried to answer as many points as possible. The key question of this debate is, even after the Minister's answer, whether something is really going to change: are we going to stop wasting, are we going to stop pouring billions into a black hole a year, those billions that we need so much for care, for education and for all kinds of other things that we can help people instead of billions for those complicated projects that all fail? I also asked whether the relationship between the market and the government, the relationship between ministries and ICT companies, will actually change. The committee has made a number of recommendations to do so. It has also not made a number of recommendations. My point remains that, in a sense, the government is sitting on the lap of ICT companies that are the only ones capable of doing what. The minister says he's going to increase the government's knowledge to try to reduce that stranglehold. We'll see. I think that the government will really have to think about dealing with market players in a different way, especially in the ICT sector. Tomorrow we will have another debate on Ordina. The way Ordina had civil servants and also people from their own company in various ministries to bring in procurement projects is an example of the wrong way in which the market and government deal with each other. They're all symptoms. I had one more point which the Minister has not yet responded to, despite his rather complete answer, that is the point of the one central minister. The Minister has said a few things about this; I know that. He also said that ministers cannot go against each other. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he sees the possibility of making one minister centrally responsible, just as the Minister of Economic Affairs is centrally responsible for the administrative burden in this country. It therefore evaluates every law of all departments on a particular aspect. I'm coming to the BIT. I will put forward a motion in a moment to obtain as much of the guarantees as possible from the Minister, who I do not think is hard enough yet. I welcome the commitment to actually do 5 million, although I think the comment on complexity is right. The Minister does not really want to take mid-term tests, but I will insist on that. My main concern is that the CIO Empire, I prefer to call him the highest ICT official, who, according to the Minister, will also be the one who will appoint the 15 internal experts and thus also determine the flexible shell of external experts. I think that's a tricky point. So you get a BIT whose occupation is determined by an official who reports directly to a minister. I still see limited independence in this. I'm sitting there I'll be honest about it a little between two flavors. D66 often happens, although of course we are the most important taste. On the one hand, you have the taste of the people who say: the Prime Minister must press the BIT quite directly. On the other hand, you have the taste of the rest, of the cabinet and of the PvdA group and the VVD group, which says: we are fine with the CIO Empire doing this. If you ask me which of them it should be and I could only choose between them, then I would choose the Prime Minister to do so, although I have indicated that I do not think that is desirable for any other reason. But a CIO Empire as boss of the BIT I really think is too frightening and too weak a structure. Despite the efforts made by the Minister during the reply, I stand by my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u76	What would the layout of the BIT look like according to D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u77	I'll make a motion on that right away, but I'll give you a tip of the veil.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u78	No, no, you can read the motion like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u79	I say the following in reply to Mrs Oosenbrug. Listening to the committee opinion and listening to what the Minister said, we think of the analogy of the planning agencies. They are covered by a minister, but they have a very clear institutional decision which contains a lot of independent guarantees. In my motion, I have taken over a number of elements from the establishment decision of the planning agencies as hard limits to ensure that the BIT does not become a kind of officially merged club that does not give any firm advice. So that would be my solution. I say that because Mrs De Caluwe said that I would not come up with solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u80	If I understand correctly, the BIT would ultimately consist of externals and a number of officials who should become ICT specialists. That's pretty much what the report says. I see from Mr Verhoeven that he is going to say something about that. I'll just wait for his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u81	We're gonna listen to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u82	No, Mr. Chairman, not yet. In response to Mrs Oosenbrug, I would like to say that I am thinking of an analogy with the institutional decision of the planning agencies, which is independent of the occupation. Those institutional decisions contain a number of tough safeguards which, in my view, will put an end to the demands of all of us. That is why I see this analogy as a possible solution to the problem and I shall put it to the Chamber in a motion. My point is that BIT should not be a dashboard 2.0. It shouldn't be another fake safety valve that doesn't end up working. That's actually my main concern, too. By the way, I am pleased that there is indeed a so-called mobile ICT team, a pool of officials who can go from one department to another with all its knowledge to ensure proper supervision of the projects. I am very happy about that and in that sense I judge it positively. I am also reassured by the Minister's answers to questions about the national cloud. I believe that the private office is often lacking in terms of privacy and too much of the possibilities of everything but linking up. It is nice to hear that the minister has the importance of securing data centers and the way of dealing with one national cloud between the ears. Mr. Chairman. I'll conclude with my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Temporary Committee on ICT recommended the creation of a temporary ICT authority to review all ICT projects above EUR 5 million and to act as a lock;]] [[Considering that, according to the Committee on ICT, the ICT Research Bureau (BIT) should become a small, efficient, capable and independent organisation with perseverance power to stop failing ICT projects;]] [[Whereas the Government does not give the BIT the desired independent position and power of perseverance by placing it with the CIO Empire and taking the review only as an opinion;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the BIT's institution decision that the independence of BIT should be ensured by means of relevant indications of independence, the possibility to report freely and the occupation of BIT;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the BIT's institutional decision that BIT can deliver a public opinion on any ICT project above EUR 5 million, and deliver an opinion on any ICT project at any stage on its own initiative;]] [[calls on the Government to include the sluice-up function of the BIT proposed by the Temporary Committee on ICT in the institution decision guaranteeing the BIT's perseverance power,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u83	I know exactly what Mr Verhoeven wants through the motion, and that is nice. He talks about an institution decision and guarantees. I also hear the Minister in his first reply talking about an institutional decision and about safeguards. Is the only difference between what Mr Verhoeven wants and what the Minister wants, the position of the CIO Empire? Is this about his independent position?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u84	It's not the only thing, but if it were the only thing, it would be a lot. I have spent about the whole debate on my fear that the BIT boss in the form of the CIO Empire could undermine the fact that BIT should be a club that should be able to say 'don't do this project' freely and independently. If it was just that, it was quite something, but of course it is more than that. I think it is very important that we set up an organisation which is not very large and bureaucratic and which is not very remote from the government either. That is also something the committee does not want. So it shouldn't be some kind of Authority Consumer & Market, a real ZBO. The Minister has rightly pointed out that the committee does not want that, and that is why I have been looking for an existing variant that is very much in line with the committee's thinking. I think the planning agencies are a nice source of inspiration. In doing so, I have chosen to bring back a number of things contained in the institutional decision in what the Minister sends us. So it's a hardening on a number of points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u85	I understand that, but I can imagine that there should be an indication of what should be included in the institutional decision. I further wonder why you should pour it into the form of a planning agency and not into the form of a BIT.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u86	I just said I'm going for an analogy with the planning agencies. I have also mentioned a number of things that need to be included in the institutional decision in the motion. I cannot put an institutional decision of seven pages in the Official Journal of the Planning Offices into a motion. That is why I referred to it. I am concerned that in this debate we have been talking about a very important organisation for almost four hours. That is why I have thought about how to make it more concrete. The result is that I have been looking for a way to join an existing organisation that assesses government policy fairly successfully and independently. The planning agencies are a good example of this, and that is why I thought: let me go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u87	Then the essence of the CDA: the highest BIT boss has a boss; that's the Minister for Housing and National Service. He himself has just said that one minister cannot block the other minister. With the interesting motion put forward by Mr Verhoeven, you are not doing anything about that, are you? The only thing you get is that there will soon be an opinion thrown down here in the Chamber, while in Box K the responsibility for failing ICT projects must finally be taken together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u88	On that point, I agree more with the Minister than Mrs Keijzer might like to hear, but I would also like to continue to take the popularly represented profession a little seriously. I do not want ministers to become representatives of the people by pointing out another minister; they will do so in the Cabinet on Friday afternoon. I agree with the Minister that I want to have the guarantee that as a Member of Parliament, I get sharp, real and truth-based advice from a watchdog. If those advices are sent to me, I am confident that I will then be able to step on the brakes. Mrs Keijzer would like one minister to be able to whistle back the other minister. I don't think that's gonna work. My main concern is that the advice will be smothered in the official organisation and not so much that one minister can't whistle back the other minister. So Mrs Keijzer is right in her analysis: we do think otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u89	That is a wonderful observation, but you are ignoring some of the Committee's findings, namely that ICT is undervalued and that the learning capacity of the government in this area is very limited. This actually continues the practice of the last few years. We all know how things are in this house. At some point, there will be an opinion that is very negative about a beautiful political project, but the majority of the House is pushing it into coalition. Again, isn't it many times better to make sure that this sort of thing ends in the bosom of the cabinet, because the Prime Minister is responsible for this? Then something is actually being done against throwing over the bar from 1 billion to 5 billion a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u90	I'm not in the cabinet, and I'm gonna be in the cabinet for a while. So that would mean that I would have no opportunity to do that work in the bosom of the cabinet. I would like to receive a very clear advice from a truly independent club with a great deal of knowledge and a very diverse background in this Chamber. That sharp advice should show what the opinion is on a particular ICT project that a minister or a parliament may want to launch through coalition coercion. Then I can say: listen, we have set up a club, a real watchdog, similar to the Central Planning Office. When the Central Planning Office comes up with a certain pass-through, we all take this very seriously. In that sense, I believe that the analogy and the strength of the opinion are strong enough to ensure that we do not continue to waste billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u91	It is a pity, however, to note that it is not going to happen in the Cabinet that ICT projects are being held responsible, because it remains a responsibility of one individual minister, who sends the reports to the Chamber. On this point, Mr Verhoeven contradicts himself: even if you ultimately hang this responsibility under the coordinating Ministry of General Affairs, those reports and opinions from the BIT will continue to come to the Chamber. After all, that was promised by the Minister. In doing so, Mr Verhoeven can fulfil his role as a representative of the people, but that is without prejudice to the fact that the administrative responsibility to do it well has been invested where it lies, namely in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u92	I think that the latter is a strange argument. I say that something must be possible to do my job properly. Next, Mrs Keijzer admits that my proposal does indeed offer this possibility, but she does not approve of my proposal because I do not entirely agree with her wishes, which I have said I do not think are so important. Mrs Keijzer, it is true that I want the Chamber to have the opportunity to step on the brakes on the basis of an expert analysis. That is what the Minister calls "the strong light of transparency." My concern is that this transparency is only half-way through. I would like to remove it by the motion I have just tabled. I would like to thank the Minister and my colleagues for this good debate. I hope that in the coming years we will not waste billions more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u93	Mr. Chairman. The Elias Commission advised us to purchase a German shepherd and today it looks as if a majority of this Chamber is going to be sailing with a poodle. That is extremely sad to have to establish, because it is a bit about something. It is about failing ICT projects, it is about citizens being ground and it is about a lot of money being thrown over the bar, between EUR 1 and EUR 5 billion a year. For the CDA today, the essence was the question of whether we will soon get a BIT with a stand-alone position that also has an opportunity to act as a lock. Are there any ICT projects that aren't going to work or aren't going to do what they need to do, given the business case? That's what today is about. The Elias Committee did not advise without reason to hang the BIT under the Ministry of General Affairs. At least some things have become clear today, because the Minister for Housing and National Service has made it quite clear here that one minister should not block the other minister. It is therefore clear that, if there is an opinion from the BIT and the Minister himself believes that that advice is not a reason to stop or change a project, there is no one to point the finger at it. That will go on and eventually it will be thrown into the Chamber and we, as Members of Parliament, will have to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u94	I may be mistaken, but I hear Mrs Keijzer talking about reports being thrown into the Chamber and about MPs sitting here doing nothing. In fact, I feel that this is a negative response, because every report I receive in this Chamber, whether it is from the Ombudsman or from the Court of Auditors or from anyone else, I take it seriously. If the BIT is going to send a report to the Chamber at some point, I will take it seriously as a Member of Parliament. It is my job to then appeal to the cabinet if the cabinet wishes to ignore that report, to ignore it or anything else. I do not quite understand where Mrs Keijzer is in the enormous pain that the Chamber is taking on a task which is her task, namely to monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u95	I would almost say to Mrs Oostenbrug: read the report of the Elias Committee again. That's why this report is there. That report states that requirements are not met. Has there been any thought in advance as to what ICT should be used for? What should ICT achieve? Is that what ICT achieves? What are the social costs? What are the benefits? All these considerations are not sufficiently made within ministries and because of the way in which it is now in danger of being set up, there is no extra pressure to do so, other than what we have been doing with each other day in, day out, namely at some point in the Chamber discussing it. I would like to mention the Social Insurance Bank. We are now in trouble because we have not thought ahead of time about the business case, the prevention of fraud, the costs involved and the benefits it will bring. This should have happened within the Ministry and there should have been a BIT that could have said at some point: boys, this is not going well. Now it is well past 12 hours again, tens of thousands of people are not getting money and this Chamber is actually looking again at something that could have been avoided in the CDA's view. A BIT with teeth, so the German shepherd, could have prevented this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u96	I have already indicated in an earlier debate that I am not much of a dog, but well. We've all read the report. Me too, a few times. I got other things out of there. I have made it clear that the Chamber must also assume its responsibilities. That's why I'm saying it's not about reports being thrown into the Chamber. We will have to take those reports. You speak of things from the past. I'm looking to the future. Suppose there's a BIT, that sends these BIT reports and the cabinet ignores those reports, what's gonna happen? Then this Chamber will have to intervene. Mrs Keijzer says you're in the coalition. No, I'm an independent MP. If I get a report that says something's wrong, I'll address my ministers. Shouldn't everyone in the Chamber just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u97	I have just asked Mrs Van Oosenbrug in an interrupting debate why she believes that BIT cannot be placed under the Ministry of General Affairs. When she answered that question, she came no further than to say: yes, uh, state law. There is nowhere in the Constitution that the Prime Minister should not be responsible for a major problem like this, with 1 billion to 5 billion being thrown over the bar because of failing ICT. Read the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u98	I'm being addressed personally, Mr. Chairman. That's why I want to respond again. It's very easy to make fun of each other here. Above all, we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u99	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u100	Mrs Oosenbrug has the floor, Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u101	I'm talking. Above all, we must continue to do so, and that certainly makes politics credible. I believe that we have indeed had a debate here on where BIT should be positioned and why there. BIT is important. Now, however, something that has not yet been built up is already being ridiculed. I'm just gonna fit in. I have an opinion on that. Mrs Keijzer is trying to make fun of me now. If that makes her bigger, that's fine with me. However, let us talk about the content and the BIT. Let's talk about the function of BIT, what the Chamber does and what the cabinet's job is.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u102	Well, I think Mrs. Van Oosenbrug is making herself smaller than she is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u103	It's Oosen Bridge, without Van.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u104	Oh, I thought I said it right. I think Mrs Oosenbrug is making herself smaller than she really is. I have a difference of opinion with her. It bases itself on state law in its argument that BIT should not fall within the scope of the Ministry of General Affairs. I asked her in an interruptive debate what she was basing herself on and where it should not be. It just doesn't say anything. As far as the CDA is concerned, the PvdA's argument is therefore completely inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u105	No, Mrs Oosenbrug, I see that you want to respond again, but this is about the same point. Mrs Keijzer continued her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question of whether there should be a tunnel somewhere, or whether something should be done about fraud in the field of pgbs, is not the subject of the ICT review. No, this debate is about whether the ICT system that is being rigged is equipped for that task. That's what this is about. We've seen several examples. I have already mentioned them today, so I will not repeat them. The question before us is whether what is now being discussed and what is apparently coming out of the debate is sufficient. What comes out of the debate is broadly in line with what is stated in a letter from the Minister, which, according to the CDA, is insufficient. Is this the solution to the problems? As far as the CDA is concerned, it's not. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that the BIT, whatever BIT, will be working on testing projects of more than 5 million. At least that's clear. I would also like to thank him for the commitment that the institutional decision, whatever it may look like, will eventually be sent to the Chamber. In this way we can check whether that independent position of BIT is actually going to come of it. I'm rounding up. The CDA Group has already said that it is very grateful to those colleagues who, in addition to their work here in the Chamber, are members of a parliamentary committee. There is a wonderful report in which things are clearly defined. It also contains good recommendations. The CDA Group fully accepts these recommendations. On 11 December the CDA Group tabled a motion on this matter. It proposes to the Chamber to ask the government, in accordance with the recommendations of the Temporary Committee on ICT Projects to the government, to set up an ICT testing office under the Ministry of General Affairs. We maintain that motion. I very much hope that a majority of the House will take this report seriously and our colleagues seriously and actually come to a BIT with very sharp teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to the Elias committee, whose chairman has been listening all along. That is very much appreciated by me. I would also like to thank the Minister for his first reply. In its report, the Committee makes it crystal clear that the CIO Empire has too little perseverance and only his or her power of persuasion. She calls on the cabinet to do something about the position of the CIO Empire. In the cabinet response I read this among other things: the cabinet shares the analysis that the movement of separate departmental facilities to generic ICT facilities needs to accelerate on parts. That should end up with the CIO Empire. A number of new elements are added to the role of the CIO Empire: Head of BIT, while the ICT Knowledge Centre is also invested in the CIO Empire. But I read so little concretely about how the position of the CIO Empire, on which the committee has so hammered, is strengthened. The Minister may say: well, the CIO Empire will soon have the BIT with a thorough investigation, with which the CIO Empire can beat others up. It could be, but if it stays that way and if he can still only argue, without perseverance, I am very concerned about that. I come to the merger of ICT governance spots. I am not convinced by the Minister when it comes to whether or not to adopt the recommendation to merge Wonen and Rijksdienst and BZK with regard to ICT. I ask the Minister to look into that possibility. I have the next motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Committee on ICT recommends that adequate guidance could be achieved through a better management structure by placing responsibility for the general (conditional) ICT policy of the Empire and also the system responsibility of the Minister for Housing and National Service with the Minister for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine further the possibilities for adopting and implementing this Recommendation and to inform the Court of Justice of this before Princess Day 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u108	As far as the accessibility of BIT is concerned, I very much welcome the Minister's commitment that the BIT report goes to the Chamber unchanged, unabated and unadjusted. Period. Very nice. Mr Verhoeven made that happen again in his motion, which I also signed. That commitment is certain. However, I am concerned about another discussion that we have had, namely about the accessibility of BIT and the question of how to ensure that projects where things are not going well can be assessed in the interim. I have another motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Committee on ICT recommends that the BIT be given the opportunity to carry out interim reviews and that the Cabinet share this view;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the BIT is accessible and accessible to all those involved in projects with a large and complex ICT component, and that the BIT can come to an interim test on the basis of the information it receives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u109	How quickly you speak, Mr. Chairman. I always admire that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u110	I'm listening faster!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u111	That's very good. I come to ARBIT, on which we have had an extensive exchange of views. The Minister writes on page 27 of the letter we received: I will investigate in 2015 whether the use and content of ARBIT and its model agreements give rise to an obligation to make it mandatory, if necessary, with additional provisions for all contractual relations with the ICT market. I'm very happy about that. It's a good thing the Minister's gonna look into that. He says: once I have discussed this in the Council of Ministers, the Chamber will also be informed about it. When can we expect that? Let's talk about what's going on right now. Suppliers are now hardly attracted to poor performance. Why is that the case? We're not gonna solve that if we change the terms of employment. That simply means maintaining the agreements that are already in place. The SVB, which Mrs Keijzer talked about a few times, is a beautiful and current case. So that's where it all goes to hell. The government decides to submit this to the arbitration committee, which publishes about it, but which we do not then see a public report on. Why, in such a case, is it chosen to go this way? Why is there no other way of dealing with the procedure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u112	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the first-term questions. The VVD has called for further concreteisation and strengthening of a number of measures. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for his commitment to use functional procurement wherever possible. In that commitment, it is more expressed than in his letter. I also thank him for the fact that he is going to work out and apply the ten farmers' understanding rules, as the ICT Committee called them, and that he is going to have all projects above 5 million evaluated for the time being by BIT, and not just the complex projects he had proposed in his letter. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to include the costs and benefits in the dashboard. I am, of course, well aware that the benefits cannot always be expressed in plain terms, but that they are often also social benefits. Of course, they should also be included. I will come back to my comments on waste in the management phase at a later date. That point is not really part of this debate, but I have already mentioned it briefly. For the VVD it is important that there is a powerful and independent BIT. Several colleagues have already indicated this, but the different parties offer different solutions. The Minister made a number of commitments on BIT. For example, he will deploy changing teams and make the advice public and send it to the Chamber. He will also send the institution decision to the Chamber. The VVD would like to add safeguards to that institution's decision to guarantee the independence of BIT. To that end, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a temporary ICT Review Office (BIT) is hereby established;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet intends to position the BIT at the Ministry for Housing and National Service, under the CIO Empire;]] [[noting that the added value of the BIT can only be achieved if the BIT is positioned in such a way as to enable it to assess independently and objectively ICT projects;]] [[Whereas the quality and independence of BIT determines the effectiveness and objectivity of BIT;]] [[considers that there should be no ambiguity at the start of the BIT on the assurance of quality and independence and its monitoring;]] [[invites the Government to set up the BIT in such a way that:]] [[an objective review by the BIT is ensured by ensuring that the majority of those involved in a test consist of experts specifically for the BIT of outside experts, supplemented by independent external experts, and by excluding staff from CIO organisations of the Ministry who is the proposer of the ICT project from involvement in the test;]] [[the ministries have an obligation to provide information to the BIT through the CIO system;]] [[the quality and independence of the BIT's external monitoring tests shall be carried out in the form of an Advisory Board, including the General Court;]] [[opinions of the BIT shall be made public and sent to the Lower House, and any deviations from a BIT opinion supported by the Minister concerned shall also be forwarded to the Chamber after discussion in the Council of Ministers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Caluwe and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u113	That first request was a very long one, so I am glad that the motion is being presented, because then one can read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u114	The way you put it is not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u115	This is a very complicated motion. When I was listening, the next one might have come up with some uncomfortable question. Isn't it extremely complicated for Mrs De Caluwe to operate like this? On the one hand, there is a report from the committee led by Mr Elias of the VVD. There are wonderful proposals in it. On the other hand, there is the Minister who does not want to. Does Mrs De Caluwé now massage that uncomfortable VVD feeling by submitting such a motion, which I think: just follow the committee's advice, because then you have exactly what you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u116	It's true, but the emphasis was wrong. That didn't make it all the way. You're right, you've been paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u117	The committee wanted an independent operating BIT. The VVD wants that, too. The motion concerns its implementation and its safeguards. They are mentioned in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u118	It has just been shown in the interrupting debate that one minister cannot block, advise and push the other. I think this is a motion that is trying to massage this road while there is a splendid report from the Elias Committee. It's just too bad the VVD doesn't take those advice. Then this wouldn't have been necessary. I think we'll be back here in a few years. This is not going to have the effect that the opinions of the Elias Committee have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u119	The safeguards necessary for a good and independent operation of the BIT are quite independent of the placement of the BIT, at any ministry. It's my responsibility to make sure. This is a further development of the opinions issued by the Temporary Committee on ICT. That committee wanted an independent BIT. In order to develop this further, we have set out a number of safeguards which we believe the BIT must fulfil in order to be able to operate independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u120	We've wasted billions of dollars on ICT projects every year. Then we had a committee of inquiry from the Chamber do two years' work. Then this minister writes a very long letter with all sorts of vague promises and ultimately comes down to one thing: are we going to put that strong watchdog down? Next, the VVD, together with the Labour Party, a majority in this Chamber, submits a very long and complicated motion. My question to Mrs De Caluwe is, apart from the motion: does the VVD now want a real watchdog that can ensure that no billions are wasted by ICT projects that are judged far too positive and optimistic, or does the VVD simply want to continue on the same footing, but does she not dare to say that and therefore complicate it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u121	If we wanted to continue on the same footing, I would not have to file the motion. It is precisely because the conclusions of the committee are so firm and precisely because something needs to be done that we are presenting this motion with the guarantees that BIT must fulfil in order to be able to function properly and independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u122	The Elias Committee said that we wasted billions a year because we were not critical at the start of a project. That is why it has been proposed to set up a watchdog. My feeling is that the VVD says, you know, we pretend it's a watchdog, but it's just a lapdog. That's why this motion is some kind of masquerade, I think. Is the VVD going for real control of ICT projects or is the VVD going to follow the cabinet and will we actually continue on the same path?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u123	The answer is very clear: yes, we are really going for a very powerful watchdog in the field of ICT. Those safeguards are intended precisely for that purpose, precisely because there is so incredibly much waste. That waste must be avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u124	I may have less problems with Mrs De Caluwé's and Mrs Oosenbrug's motion than my two colleagues in the opposition. However, I do have another question that should create some clarification. The first part of the request states that "the parties to a test must be made up of experts specifically for the BIT of outside experts, supplemented by independent external experts." What's the difference between them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u125	I'm glad you asked. The difference is that independent experts from outside can be recruited specifically for the BIT. The independent experts who come after can be deployed per project. You have to make sure that the interests are not entangled and so you have to look at which experts are needed per project and what expertise should be used in which field.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u126	Mr. Chairman. The Committee on ICT has produced a very clear report on all problems related to the ICT problems in the government. That report is important because it should better protect taxpayers from further waste of money. I need that money wasted to stop. In order to achieve this, all recommendations of the Committee, including those on the establishment of a strong watchdog in the form of an ICT test, the much discussed BIT, should be taken over. The Minister has a BIT in mind that according to the PVV is not independent and decisive enough. The Minister's BIT is totally inconsistent with the BIT as envisaged by the Committee on ICT. However you turn or turn, the groups of VVD and PvdA agree with the Minister and let the committee, in which members of their own groups are represented, fall hard. That is the only conclusion that remains. This defeat does not deserve the commission. The PVV is not confident that the problems will be solved and we will continue to look at all ICT projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr. Chairman. Thanks, of course, to the Temporary Committee on ICT for the enormous work it has done and for the fine report it has written. We in the Chamber should take advantage of that. Of course, I have discussed this with my colleagues in the group as a spokesperson for ICT. We have not gone rolling across the street and have even come out very well. I do not feel that I have abandoned anyone, but rather that I have come to this decision in good and constructive consultation. I would also like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. I am glad that there is consensus in the Chamber on BIT: we all want a BIT. We are not quite in agreement yet on its implementation, but well, let's start with the BIT and experience what it can mean for our work as MPs. I myself look forward to that very positive and eagerly. In my earlier speech, I also mentioned the Vendrik motion from 2002, which is still very topical. That's why I brushed up the motion a little bit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Vendrik motion called for open standards in 2006 and ambitious targets for the use of open source software as early as 2002;]] [[noting that the 2014 ICTU's Open Standards Monitor shows that procurement requires only a limited part of the relevant open standards and that there is no "pass or explain" principle;]] [[noting that there are no ambitious targets for the use of open source software;]] [[Considers that this makes the dependence of a limited number of large software providers too strong and that this could lead to too high societal costs for software;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the relevant open standards are properly handled in all procurements by the end of 2015;]] [[calls on the Government to develop exit strategies to end current software relationships within five years and to avoid dependence on one provider;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up the specifications in each call for tender for a new ICT project in such a way that open source applications have an equal chance and explain them when choosing a closed source application,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33326-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u128	That's a nice motion. I do have a question. The Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations has promised to disclose the source code of the mGBA. Last week, I asked for the source code of the Social Insurance Bank's systems to be made public. Does Mrs Oosenbrug refer to using helping hackers with this motion? She just said something like that in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u129	No. This motion calls for open standards to be used in an invitation to tender. That's what this is all about. For example, if something is placed on the site of the House of Representatives, it is often in a Word document. That's from Microsoft, so it's a closed system. It should be a PDF file, so an open standard. That should actually be the standard operating method of the government. In addition to this side of the open standards, there is also an open source side: the source code is available, and it is freely available. The government can decide on this. For example, the Minister initially said that the mGBA code would be released. Later he said that this could not be done entirely, because releasing certain elements of the source code because of the links between certain systems could endanger our privacy. So we shouldn't just release it, but we can invite helping hackers to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u130	Thank you for this explanation. If I listen to you very carefully, you say that he should in principle be public, and that we can invite helping hackers to look at the source code of such systems, where it has gone so wrong, when privacy is at stake. Let me get this straight. That would really help me in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u131	You understand that very well. We regularly submit this suggestion to the ministries: ask curious helping hackers to watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u132	I like this. So if I don't get those source codes and I don't get that invitation from helping hackers, at least I got the PvdA in this debate. That's very good for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for the valuable words I have heard here and there about the tightening up I made in my first term. I will try to provide the best possible response to the criticisms, concerns and motions that have been tabled. I did indeed owe Mr Verhoeven an answer to his question about one minister for ICT. He drew the comparison with the Minister of Economic Affairs and administrative burdens. First of all, I have indicated that ICT is so much a part of the main process of any organisation, but certainly of the government, that it seems to me very undesirable to the Chamber that the Minister for Social Security should not be responsible for DUO's ICT, or the Minister for Social Affairs for ICT in relation to social security. Where one minister can and must be responsible, and in this case, I am the one who is responsible for ensuring that the supporting ICT is deployed nationally. We have taken enormous steps in this area. That minister is also responsible for ensuring that the other ministers apply ICT within their field of expertise in accordance with standards that ensure the best possible communication systems and purchase as sharp as possible, under the best possible conditions. He is also responsible for the fact that the review will be carried out in the future through the BIT. So that system responsibility could be with one minister. This is actually similar to the role of the Minister of EZ in administrative burdens. We'll meet a target in the cabinet on that. The Chamber will then receive concrete proposals from various trade ministers, for example proposals from me on construction legislation. This will enable the objective of administrative burdens to be fulfilled, which is monitored by the Minister of EZ. The Chamber would also be a little surprised if it were to come up with legislation on administrative burdens in the area of its colleagues. Mr Verhoeven once again addressed the question of how we can ensure that BIT is strong and independent. He made a comparison with the planning agencies and eventually put it in a motion. Mr Verhoeven will agree with me that planning agencies are actually more the instrument of transparency than of perseverance. I'll put it this way. A planning agency makes and publishes accounts of government plans, such as election programmes of political parties. That has a huge impact. Mr Verhoeven and I have both been campaign leaders. We both know that the moment of publication of the credit transfers is very important. They are an enormous part of the public debate. Mr Verhoeven takes out the most beautiful things from his programme and I am of mine and we both think that we are right. In the end, we will come to a choice on the basis of political considerations. A planning agency has no perseverance. In that sense, therefore, the comparison does not apply. I have difficulty with Mr Verhoeven's motion when it comes to the role he sees or does not see for the CIO Empire. I will then immediately take my answer to Mrs Gesthuizen's question. One of the 34 recommendations is indeed to ensure that the CIO Empire has perseverance. I explained it through a constitutional approach. I can't help it either. The Constitution also states that a minister is in charge of his ministry. That's just what it says. You can't just wipe that away. At the same time, we think it's important that you realize things beyond the boundaries of ministries. That is also important for the cabinet. That is why we have agreed, for example, that as Minister for National Service, I am responsible for supporting ICT and for the human resources that apply to everyone, such as collective agreements and working conditions. Like the Elias Commission, I have the ambition to give the CIO Empire more power. That's why I think that role in BIT is so important. The CIO Empire is not going to run ICT projects itself. 'Cause then you'd get a double. The CIO Rijk, however, is the leader who ensures that the process of testing, its publication and quality monitoring of ICT projects is well organised. This is not possible in the route outlined by Mr Verhoeven in his motion. That's why I'm afraid I'm going to have to discourage his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u134	Not only does the Minister fear that, but he has just done so. The Minister's turning it around. He says he will give the highest ICT official of the Empire perseverance power by giving him a watchdog. That is not the way the Elias Committee intended it. The Elias Commission proposes to give the Chamber and other organisations an independent watchdog, which responds to every ICT project when needed. That's a whole other thing than giving an official a watchdog. The minister gives the watchdog a master, his official. That's my point: I don't want that watchdog to have a civil servant in charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u135	I miss, with all due respect, a solution to the Elias Commission's desire to give the CIO Empire power. I have fulfilled that wish in this way, because I am convinced that it can work well. I didn't hear an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u136	I'd be happy to take a look at the passage in my motion on the highest ICT official. I can disconnect things from each other, so we don't suffer from the reversal either. My point is that the analogy with the planning agencies....................................................................................................................................................................................................... I ask the Minister to look at my motion that way. If I take out the article on the ICT official, there is a very good alternative, namely the analogy of the planning agencies, which includes an institutional decision. That gives the watchdog the strength it takes to stop wasting all those billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u137	I'd like to take a look at a modified motion. However, I can only judge this motion. In this form, I must dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u138	I am expecting an amended motion to be tabled with a different opinion or not. Will the Minister also comment on the question of how he views the proposed sluice-gate function in this motion? That is the essence: a BIT that can decide whether or not an ICT project is going ahead. That's what the Elias Commission means by the sluice-in function.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u139	In this way, it is not possible for state law, as I explained. The Court can propose a constitutional change. That is what the Chamber is about, but such a change is not my ambition.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u140	If you hang the BIT under the Prime Minister, you don't have to. I just said at the microphone "I rest my case," but let me repeat that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u141	I regret that Mrs Keijzer is running away, because this is factually incorrect. The Constitution does not confer on the Prime Minister any power of perseverance vis-à-vis other ministers. I can't make it prettier. The Constitution can be rewritten, which takes some time, but now it is not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u142	I'm sorry, but I'm very attached to getting to the bottom of this. To some extent, I understand the Minister's reasoning. What strikes me, however, is that he does not say here: we can make agreements in a cabinet with all of us. That is what the cabinet is doing when it comes to reducing administrative burdens, an example which he himself cited. This does not always go smoothly, because the Minister of EZ does not have a perseverance power, but that aside. Then why doesn't the Minister admit that at least the cabinet is going to make arrangements? That doesn't mean that the CIO Empire has to sit on top of it like some kind of judge and public prosecutor and pull all the power towards him, but then at least he has a set of rules and he can say: we made this appointment. It could then be discussed in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u143	I wonder where Mrs Gesthuizen's question differs from my proposal. In the field of ICT and also in a number of other areas of the state service, we have made agreements within the government. The whole letter we are discussing here has, of course, also been dealt with by the Cabinet. All this can be done without the need for the Constitution to be amended. However, a power of perseverance from one minister to another calls for an adaptation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u144	For me, the stinger is at this point. In the letter we are discussing today, the cabinet states that it will ensure that the departmental CIOs will now be on the board of directors. So they actually get more power. However, we are still looking for a way to strengthen the position of the CIO Empire. I recognize that position will grow stronger if he has some kind of watchdog behind him who can provide evidence. But then there must be consequences. If the cabinet does not agree on this, it is not up to me to make those agreements. In fact, it is up to a CIO Empire to have the power of persuasion. We want to get away from that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u145	The agreement we make is that the judgment of the BIT, led by the CIO Empire, is published and goes to the Chamber transparently and unchanged. Isn't that a cabinet meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u146	I see that Mrs Gesthuizen wishes to intervene again, but we shall proceed with the second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u147	Mrs Keijzer said that she would put her motion to the vote to put the BIT to the vote. I have already indicated that I find it impure to make a very small ministry with a coordinating responsibility responsible for a large part of the executive tasks of the Empire and that the structure that I propose now, namely political accountability but through the Minister for Housing and National Service, gives the Chamber equal influence and is also much more purer under state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u148	Mrs Keijzer has another interruption on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u149	I have one more question. How's that gonna work out for you later? The BIT makes a negative report, which goes to the Chamber and then the Minister's responsibility for Housing and National Service is gone, because we have to address the relevant minister. Then we're not seeing each other, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u150	I am surprised that Mrs Keijzer, as a Member of Parliament, says that we have nothing. If the Chamber receives a very negative report and if the Minister who received it has not already sent a firm plan of action to the Chamber on what he is going to do with it or has informed the Chamber that he is not going to go through with it, then the Parliament will be on top of that. This is how we regulated the control of the executive in our democracy, isn't it? It is precisely through the establishment of the BIT and the publication of these opinions that the Chamber has a huge instrument. Because it is such a huge instrument, the Minister responsible will generally not allow it to go so far and take all the appropriate measures himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u151	I'll be very brief. Of course we're gonna jump on top of it. I am now jumping on top of the situation at the Social Insurance Bank, but in the report of 200 pages of the Elias Commission, one has been looking for one ICT idea within the ministries and the answer to the question of how to handle ICT, how to make it better and how to ensure that it is well invested. That's what we're talking about here. And don't worry, Mr President: I'm a representative of the people, so I'll be on top of it when things go wrong, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u152	That's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u153	Well, then, luckily, that concern is unjustified. Mrs Gesthuizen asked me when the report on the adjustment possibilities of the ARBIT was due. I'll make sure the Chamber gets that from me this year. Mrs Gesthuizen also made two motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 16, which is about merging the responsibilities of the Minister of the Interior and those of the Minister for Housing and National Service. The motion calls on the government to examine the possibility of adopting this recommendation. An important consideration in setting up a minister for the National Service was that this minister is not directly responsible for a ministry and that, unlike the other ministers other than the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, he is not defending a ministry's own interest when it comes to state-wide shared facilities, whether they are about ICT or personnel. If you put those government duties back in the Home Office, you'll get a double between being responsible for state-wide services and having to stand up for your own ministry. That is why I would find it unwise to combine that again. For that reason, I advise against this motion. In Mrs Gesthuizen's second motion, that is the motion in part No. 17 The Government is invited to ensure that the BIT is accessible and accessible to all those involved in projects with a large and complex ICT component and that the information provided to it by this means can provide an interim test. To be honest, I agree with that motion. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. If I see correctly, the motion contains in part No. Mrs De Caluwé referred to the points she made orally in the first term. I said at the time: I probably can support them, but then I want to see them before me. I think I'm getting it all together so well. The motion contains four conditions relating to the design of the BIT and the publication of the opinions. Now that I've got them in front of me, I can see I can get out of here with this. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. I have not been able to make Mr Fritsma entirely happy, but he has already left. Mrs Oosenbrug has a motion on part No. 19 on open source submitted. I have indicated that I really think it is important to use open source wherever possible and that this is also being assessed in the case of projects. I can handle a large part of the motion, but there is one request that probably does not pass the BIT test. This is "calls on the government to develop exit strategies that can end current software relationships within five years and prevent dependence on one provider." I really dare not guarantee that it is possible or sensible, both financially and for the continuity of the operations, to terminate all the dependencies of a software provider within five years. Suppliers such as Microsoft and SAP are very intertwined with the operations of very important parts of the government and at least at this time sometimes provide services that I really cannot promise we will not be able to rely on in five years' time. Five years is long in the ICT world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u154	And that leads to what judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u155	I will therefore have to discourage the motion in this form. However, I can see Mrs Oosenbrug already standing at the interrupting microphone. So maybe she has an adjustment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u156	If I remove the phrase 'within five years', could the Minister leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u157	If I may make it clear that the cabinet will investigate whether and how the dependency ends or ends. can be limited. I am not in favour of dependence, but I am against saying that something has to end within five years. I would like to inform Mrs Oosenbrug to what extent the objections I can now raise but cannot make them very concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u158	I agree with that in principle, provided that it includes the phrase 'informs the Chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u159	Yeah, that's for sure. If you change the motion in that line, I'll take a look at that. I think I will also return in writing to a modified motion by Mr Verhoeven, should it come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u160	Then we look forward to a modified Oosenbrug motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u161	Yes. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u162	Good. Then we're done. So much for this debate. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his presence and his participation today. On Tuesday we shall be voting on the six motions tabled. Mrs Keijzer has another question, although the Minister is almost outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u163	That's okay in the sense that he's probably already heard my question. He just said that he would deal with a possible amended motion by Mr Verhoeven. I had asked him to comment on the operative part of the sluice-gate function and to explain how he sees it. I think he just said yes, but I would like to stress that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u164	I shall return to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-08-tweedekamer-5.u165	Thank you.
