ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u1	I warmly welcome all those present in the Chamber and those watching through the media. In particular, I warmly welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and her official support. All speakers have three minutes' speaking time and can interrupt twice in two in the first period. If the minister responds, they can also interrupt twice in two. I say that in advance, so that the spokesmen can take that into account in their planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is good to start this debate by saying that the CDA sees that the vast majority of doctors and nurses do great work and work with heart and soul in care. Therefore, the CDA considers it important to tackle hard doctors who are dangerous to people's health, for example because they abuse children. That hard approach isn't going well enough. In recent years, the Minister has achieved the necessary legislation. In practice, however, there is still a great deal to be done. I will mention a number of things. The study of the TV programme De Monitor revealed that in recent years the Public Prosecutor did not pass it on to the Health Inspectorate if a doctor had been convicted of child pornography or sexual abuse in the private situation. That is completely incomprehensible. The CDA believes that the agreement to exchange this data should have been in place in the summer of 2014. Why is this meeting between the inspection and the D.A.'s office so slow? When is this cooperation protocol going to be completed? The CDA is very concerned about this, because a number of years have passed now in which the Public Prosecutor did not pass it on to the inspection if a doctor or nurse had been convicted of, for example, child pornography. How many doctors and nurses convicted of a sex crime committed in their private time are still just out there treating patients? I would like to hear concrete numbers from the Minister. The CDA also considers that doctors who, for example, have abused children or committed murder should no longer be allowed to work in health care. The Minister said in 2012 that she would enter into consultation with the Minister of Security and Justice with a view to legalising this. 2012. It's been a while. What's the status of this meeting? Does this legal provision finally come about with the BIG Act? All those convicted doctors and nurses are in the BIG register. That's good, because that's how people can find out for themselves if their doctor is reliable. However, keeping the BIG register is not good enough. The dentist Mark van N., who was convicted by the French judge, contacted him himself at one point, in my opinion, at the time with the De Monitor programme, and said: I do not think I have yet been deleted from that register, which should have already been done. How can we make that M.O. sharper? How is it possible that this has happened, something I would call a bit of a blunder anyway? After all, every newspaper has said that this doctor was prosecuted. The inspection has literally written on several websites that this would be followed closely. The inspection has written: we make sure that we just follow this to the end of the story. Now it turns out that the CIBG didn't pick it up in the end and one should be warned a few months later. I'll come to a conclusion. I see that in recent years the Minister has taken the necessary steps to adapt legislation and has taken the necessary steps, but it is not going well enough in practice. We can take a few more steps. I ask the Minister to take those steps, along with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. We have often talked in this Chamber about doctors who knowingly do not do their job well. I could have taken a text from my colleague Van Gerven from 2009 and read it out with the question: what actually happened? I won't do it. In the end, it's about how we really make sure that a doctor who we know doesn't do the job properly is made impossible, so that people are not harmed, either in the Netherlands or abroad. "Not doing the job properly" is actually a top-notch euphemism. After all, you will only be mutilated for the rest of your life by a doctor who was known to be at great risk to him or her. The name of Jansen Steur is of course known, but over the past ten years 2,000 doctors have been arrested and 80 are no longer allowed to practice their profession. What was the surprise of the Always What Monitor according to the broadcast of September 1st last? That most of these deletions are not found in the BIG register. Is it really necessary for a television programme to broadcast something to solve a problem? There seem to be two lists. In the register you can find measures and there is an online list. Has it been deliberately made so complicated? Are there no differences between these lists anymore? Can we just get one list? Transparency is of course a means, but never a solution for all evil if it remains so simple to register and get started. I call the breast doctor, the female mutilater, here in The Hague. Eventually he can no longer practice his profession, but that was after he mutilated a number of women, that so-called plastic surgeon. In this case too, the media were needed again to get attention. The SP has been saying for a long time: enter a permit requirement, then you have a check in advance if something is wrong. That's better than stepping in when things go wrong when you could already know it could go wrong. In the end, it is also necessary for doctors to report it if a colleague is not okay. Is that settled now? We have often talked about it: looking away at a disadvantage for a patient is contrary to the professional and the oath. What is the status of consultation with doctors and professional associations in this area? Is the inspection looking at this, too? Another point is the protection of whistleblowers. Last night we were able to see ZEMBLA: medical examination with psychiatric patients who weren't registered before and who didn't know they were participating in a study. You can't and you can't. An internal whistleblower was fired and also imposed a duty of silence. How is this possible? Why do the media need to get this over with again? What is wrong with our concern that whistleblowers find no other way than through the media? We can also talk about the needles. Is it institutions where they are not heard or is it an overloaded inspection that may not be accessible or hostile to some professional groups, which leads whistleblowers to the way through the media? I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. For the safety of Dutch patients it is of the utmost importance that they have a well-functioning Occupations in the Individual Health Care (BIG) registration. For many people it will not be nice to go to the dentist, but as the program of the Always What Monitor shows, you don't want to think about being treated by a messier who has a limitation on his or her name in another country. It is therefore a good thing that the law was amended on 1 July 2012, so that foreign jurisdiction restrictions are taken over in the Netherlands. At the Minister's request, the European alert mechanism will be introduced as of 19 January 2016. This obliges it to proactively share information on occupational restrictions in healthcare. The list of European countries that are already proactively exchanging information is still too limited in terms of the VVD. Therefore, the recent letter on the topicality of the BIG registration rightly states that this subject will be explicitly part of the Dutch Presidency in early 2016. I would ask the Minister to provide the Chamber with an up-to-date overview of those countries which are currently not fully involved in the exchange of the necessary information. The key question for the VVD in this debate is how we deal with countries that do not exchange information proactively. The VVD advocates being very strict with the registration of medical staff from denied states. As far as the VVD is concerned, medical personnel are no longer registered in the BIG register which has worked in countries that do not participate in the exchange of information over the past five years, unless it can be demonstrated on the basis of publicly agreed information that it has been on the hook in the past five years. In addition, the VVD recommends that the BIG register be reviewed to determine whether medical professionals who have been active in refused states have been registered. In other words, for medical staff from non-refundable states, it's no, if there's conclusive evidence that it's okay, it's okay. As far as the VVD is concerned, that should be the adadium. When can the Chamber receive a response from the Minister to the input given in January following the evaluation of the BIG Act? What is the timing of the review of the BIG Law and its amendment in the coming months? With the minister, the VVD likes to keep a firm finger on the wrist to work towards an ever closer registration to ward off medical messes, no matter where they come from, in the Netherlands. A visit to the dentist may not be more enjoyable, but it will be safer. As far as the VVD is concerned, that always comes first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. Many passionate care providers work in the care sector who work day and night for people who need care, treatment or support. If you are ill and depend on these caregivers, you must be able to trust that care is safe. Fortunately, the quality of care in the Netherlands is high, very high, but not everything goes well. After all, where people work, mistakes can also be made. Therefore, a safe culture is needed in which errors are reported, so that repetition can be avoided. It is better to create a safe culture aimed at preventing errors. The "just culture," which is emerging in the Netherlands, is a positive development for patients and at the same time for caregivers. In addition to a culture aimed at learning and improving safety, a system is needed as a stick behind the door in which a sanction can be imposed if it does go wrong. An example of this is the BIG register, in which people are registered who are competent to carry out care activities. The nasty thing is that my fellow Members have already pointed out that people who have made mistakes, who are no longer allowed to be in the BIG register and who are no longer allowed to work, are still in that BIG register. Then it's gonna go wrong. There is nothing wrong with the register in itself, but in the execution it is not going well. I ask the Minister how she will avoid this implementation problem. How are we going to see that in the new BIG register? In addition, there are more and more examples from practice that show that the quality monitoring of medical devices is not in order. Whether it is injection needles with glue, heart catheters that are not sterile or heart equipment in ambulances that does not work properly, it is always brought out by whistleblowers. The last three examples have been brought out by EenVandaag. It's like all the people in the care report to EenVandaag instead of the inspection, which is for that. Does the Minister also find it worrying that people report this to the media instead of in their own organisation? They work there with people. How, then, will the Minister ensure that internal and external supervision improves so that ultimately the people who need care can trust that care is provided by competent people and that the equipment is safe and in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u6	I think this is a very justified point made by Mrs Bouwmeester. It is indeed strange that we now see a lot of whistleblowers in the field of medical devices. If it's up to the CDA, in addition to the hotline drugs we already have at Lareb, there will also be a hotline for medical devices. If things go wrong, you have to report it to the manufacturer, but these examples show that the manufacturer sometimes puts his own interests above patient safety. How does Mrs. Bouwmeester see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u7	This is a very difficult point, because what Mrs Bruins Slot is saying is exactly at the heart of the problem. The manufacturer is entirely responsible for his own safety. What do we see with all those whistleblowers, if anything goes wrong with needles or equipment? Sometimes it's because of the interaction between man and apparatus. If a company doesn't report it, because it's not in its interest, then there's nothing going on and then it can just go on and make money on all kinds of equipment while safety is not in order. I have said before that there must be something else about it. Internal and external control should be improved, in the interests of patient safety and also to protect whistleblowers. It's quite a thing that someone who works for a big company anonymously, because he doesn't get through at the inspection, has to call one today that solves that problem. That's the upside-down world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u8	I can fully follow this argument, but my specific question was whether Mrs Bouwmeester sees anything in a medical device hotline, as is the case with medicines at Lareb.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u9	I find this a very interesting suggestion. We have asked questions about this to the cabinet, because we have a different direction of thinking. Our direction of thinking is that you put it down at the inspection and that it not only becomes a hotline, but that we go straight for it. Otherwise it will be reported, but then you can still sell those needles and then we won't get anywhere with it. I would like to add that we have submitted this direction of thought to the cabinet. If this proposal on a hotline, which needs to be worked out, works better, then we are in favour of it. We are concerned that more needs to be done than is currently the case. Apparently, aid manufacturers cannot take responsibility for themselves. That must therefore be done better, both internally and externally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u10	Mrs Bouwmeester will continue her speech unless she was finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. I can surprise you. I have a few seconds left, but I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u12	Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. Care must be of good quality and safe. Internationally, the Netherlands is in a good position, even when it comes to information about professionals. That's good news. I think it is important that we have a reliable and transparent system in the Netherlands, which not only keeps track of those health care providers who are no longer allowed to practice their profession and, for example, are reprimanded, but also everything is visible to everyone with a brief explanation, so that one understands what someone has been reprimanded for. In recent years, there has been a great deal of improvement. There are really many meters made with getting into the picture and following dysfunctional doctors. But we're not there yet. We have to keep working on improvement. The system can never be completely waterproofed, as the CIBG is partly dependent on information from other parties, such as other countries in the European Union, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Disciplinary Colleges and the Registration Committees. In recent years, we have been strongly committed to agreements with these parties to improve the system. So we're getting better and better. In 2011, I launched the exchange of information with European Member States. In 2016, we will be required to actively exchange information within the European Union: the European Alert Mechanism. I would like to make it quite clear that this alert mechanism applies between supervisors, in our case the CIBG. This is therefore not visible to the public, to the citizens of the country. In addition to the Netherlands, this is only the case in the United Kingdom and in the Scandinavian countries, not in other countries. The exchange, starting on 1 January 2016, also applies to the new restrictions of jurisdiction imposed from 1 January 2016. This means that old restrictions of competence are not exchanged. It is therefore still important that Member States inform each other about this at the first registration. As much as possible bilaterally active information is exchanged with the neighbouring countries. The Netherlands is at the forefront of this, but depends on the competent authorities abroad. Mr De Lange asked which countries I do not have agreements with, but it is better to say which countries I do have agreements with, because that is a much more limited set. These are Finland, Ireland, Norway, Slovenia, the United Kingdom and Sweden. Belgium and Germany have different regional competent authorities, so it has been agreed with these countries that there will be a single central point of contact. So until 2016 we have this with these countries, after 2016 comes the warning system. Unfortunately, however, this warning system is not easy to understand. We are talking to France to exchange maximum information. But we are dependent on each other. Making agreements between the inspection and the Public Prosecutor's Office is not yet optimal. Mrs Bruins Slot also noted that, and asked me what that is. The discussions between the Public Prosecutor and the inspection are difficult. At first, they went very difficult. The Chamber will remember that I announced at the time that we should be able to draw upon it in the care of a person who has committed certain sexual crimes in the private sphere. That implies that the inspection should know something like that. That has been very difficult to get started, but it is getting better. The Tuitjenhorn Commission contributed to this. As a result, it is not finished; in the coming period we will continue to talk about including the learning points in the cooperation protocol. But although we've had a difficult start together, fortunately things are getting better now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u14	Then where is there a fear of cold water to make these appointments? There are two parties, the inspection and the D.A.'s office. It goes from very difficult to difficult. Where is there cold feet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u15	It is going from very difficult to very difficult to actually take shape. The inspection was the requesting party. We were the activist party, because we said that we want things to be different. So we were the asking party, but the D.A. also saw all kinds of problems regarding privacy and privacy laws. How do you fit it in there? So there was some cold feet, but fortunately things are going well and meters are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u16	In fact, I find it incomprehensible that the D.A. had cold feet, because you can very well cover privacy with rules, especially between two public authorities that need to exchange data. It's bad that the D.A.'s office has thought in limitations instead of in possibilities. The Minister has good hopes that there will finally be agreements. Are they gonna be there before we go in the summer? This has been dragging for almost a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u17	It's very difficult for me. I see that yes is nodded. Apparently, the pace is so high. We want to take into account the concerns expressed by the Bleichrodt Committee. I think it is very important that we complete the protocol at once. We strive to finish this before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u18	Will it come to the Chamber for inspection?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u19	Is it a public protocol? Yeah, that's an audience. Then it comes to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u20	Well, I guess that's the deal. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u21	By the way, it is not just about the cooperation protocol. This is important, but the amendment of the BIG Act is also important. I'll get back to you on that. We're modifying the BIG registry. In the letter of 16 September 2014 on dysfunctional doctors, I indicated the ongoing and upcoming improvements to the BIG register. For example, I had an external review conducted after mentioning the measures imposed on the online lists in the BIG register. I informed the Chamber about the results in the letter of 17 December. As a pilot, the BIG Registry Google foreign graduates prior to a BIG registration on foreign jurisdiction restrictions. Every year this concerns about 1,250 foreign graduates. Clearer agreements have been made with parties on good data exchanges to and from the BIG register following late data processing from the specialist register. I also want to change the BIG Act. This will increase the scope for action against dysfunctional professionals. I informed the Chamber in my letter of 2 December. I would like to clarify, among other things, the disciplinary standard, which brings me to Mrs Bruins Slot, so that there is no doubt that disciplinary law applies to serious sexual and violent offences committed by BIG registered persons in the private sphere. In addition, I would like to give the Disciplinary Court the opportunity to prohibit BIG registered patients from treating patients or a category of patients, if the person concerned poses a serious risk to patients in general or to a category of patients. So you can make sure someone doesn't just lose their authority. Under the extended arm construction you can now simply continue working in the care. A disciplinary judge could actually prohibit this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u22	In 2012 I was mainly concerned with having the criminal court do this in private conduct. Why? If a criminal court has already imposed a penalty and is then sent to the disciplinary court, it will not be so soon to impose a professional ban, because the criminal court has already been punished. Then it is important that the criminal court can at once condemn someone for, for example, sexual abuse or attempted murder and also impose a professional ban, because someone is unfit to practice a profession in which people should be taken care of instead of harming people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u23	The criminal can do that already. The criminal court can already impose a professional ban. I think it is important that the disciplinary court should be able to impose a professional ban on the whole healthcare sector. I would, however, like to create that additional opportunity to take more steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u24	The evaluation of the BIG Act shows, among other things, that the criminal court can impose a professional ban if a doctor in his work has committed a sex crime or, for example, a murder, but not if a doctor in his private sphere has committed a sex crime or, for example, a murder. This is missing, whereas according to the monitor, there have been cases recently of doctors who, for example, commit sexual crimes or hold child pornography in their private sphere. For this reason, the CDA Group would like the criminal court to have the possibility of imposing a professional ban on the private sector as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u25	I do not think we think differently about this. We have found a gap, namely that it does not have to have any consequences for your work if things have happened in the private sphere. We have seen a number of examples of this in practice. In addition, it was a general feeling: is this the way in which we want to protect vulnerable patients in this country? This has led us to consider, among other things, whether we can tighten up the BIG Act. That's the bill I'm presenting to the Chamber. In the second term, I will come back to the question about the criminal court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u26	I have an interruption at the same point. A few years ago I asked questions together with Mrs Bruins Slot about a family doctor who was in possession of child pornography. He's got a disciplinary reprimand, but he can just do his job. The intention is therefore that the criminal court should give a ruling on this matter. In the second term, I'd like to hear the Minister's statement. Actually, there's one more step ahead. It would be very nice if doctors would agree, at first instance, that colleagues who commit offences, such as fornication, child pornography and the like, could no longer practice their profession because they have to work with vulnerable people. That is inherent in the concern. What role does the Minister see in this for the doctors?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u27	I see an important role for doctors to address each other on dysfunction. Mrs Bouwmeester already called attention to this in her first term. We have to make provision in the law that it may have consequences for your work if you commit certain crimes, albeit not in your work, but in a different atmosphere. If that is not regulated by law, you can appeal to each other, for example: in this institution we do not want to do so, but you have hardly a leg to stand on, to put it at home. I want to change that. I think we should look at this differently because it concerns vulnerable people. This situation is therefore different from that of many other professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u28	I conclude that the Minister wants a stricter approach, both criminal and disciplinary, for those who do so. In it, the Minister finds the Labour Party on her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u29	Now it is often impossible to deal with this in practice, even if it is sometimes tried. I know that the inspection has also tried, but it will then be dismissed by the judge. So we really need to change something to ensure that the inspection has much more cover if it is to take place on this point. It's all right. The disciplinary standards already state it, but I want to tighten it so that there can really be no doubt about it. The timetable of the bill in which all this is regulated is as follows. In the spring of 2016, I will send the proposal to the Chamber. I will do everything in my power to steer it earlier; we are looking at how we can contain it in such a way that it could succeed by the end of 2015. If we use the usual deadlines now, the House will get the proposal in the spring of 2016, but I am trying to speed that up. With these measures, I want to ensure that there are more opportunities to act against dysfunctional professionals and that the quality and reliability of BIG registration are as high as possible. We have worked steadily in recent years to improve, but I know that we are not yet there. That is because we are very dependent on others. This system is as strong as the weakest link. Every link in it will therefore have to function well, especially when it comes to professionals from other countries. It's a huge number. Of course, the inspection has a limited view of this, especially if they are professionals from countries that do not exchange data with us. We have therefore already started Google in four languages to see if we can be on top of that ourselves. So we are stepping up our approach, but we know that we are not yet there. We also need a legislative amendment to that effect. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked if I can indicate how many people with a conviction for child pornography are currently employed in care. I can't say. The inspection does not have all the information relating to convictions for possession of child pornography. Can you guarantee that there are no persons with a foreign restriction of competence in the BIG register? And how can we prevent blunders? I have indicated that for the sake of the eight registers, the BIG register also depends on other bodies such as foreign authorities, disciplinary colleges, inspection, prosecutors and specialist registers. The BIG Registry and these bodies shall endeavour to exchange and process necessary information as far as possible on the basis of available resources and possibilities. For foreign jurisdiction restrictions, a professional can theoretically have a limitation of competence in any country of the world. It is therefore not possible for the BIG register to check every year for all applicants for registration, that there are more than 10,000 people registered each year and for the 350 000 persons registered in the world where they practiced or practiced their profession. Thus, the risk that there will be or are registered in the BIG register who have a limitation of jurisdiction anywhere in the world will always exist if the BIG register has not been informed of those foreign restrictions of jurisdiction. Because you work in an international context, you can never get that completely foolproof. Since the end of last year, four languages, namely English, German, French and Dutch, have been Googling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u30	It's nice that people are googling and there's progress in it, but the Labour Party still finds the following a bit complicated. If someone with a professional ban from abroad is going to work in the Netherlands, we want the BIG register to work properly. We're working on that right now. As far as I am concerned, however, the BIG register is still a step in advance, namely the stage in which the new employer, if it is not a self-employed health care provider, simply makes enquiries and checks references with the previous employer. Many cases discussed here could simply have been avoided if a hospital or another employer had simply checked references. Then we do not need complicated systems and bureaucracy. How does the Minister see this? How can this be stimulated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u31	I couldn't agree more. We come from the situation in which the new employer did not really see it, but because we have done so in recent years, all of which have made public and we can see in the explanatory statement what exactly is going on when someone, for example, has a reprimand, the employer already has more possibilities. I fully agree with Mrs Bouwmeester that it is primarily there of course, but at the same time I want a BIG register that is in order. We have worked hard on this and we are still working on it. We are making every effort to do so, legal means, but also, for example, an international warning system. We allow the systems to be better aligned with the rest of the chain and move on to other methods such as Google in other countries, just to look for them as best we can. However, I agree with Mrs Bouwmeester that this is the end and she is talking about the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u32	I think the Minister and I agree. The question remains: what is the reason why such a new care worker doesn't check references? If you have an analysis, you also know what needs to be done about that cultural problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u33	The care workers had much less opportunities to find something before. Those possibilities are increasing. It might be nice to see how often they actually do that in a while. After all, we don't have a visual on the frequency. The possibilities have increased. It's time to get settled in. Then, at a later date, we can look at how many health care institutions actually do so. I will continue my speech. We have been asked about the state of play of the bill. An internet consultation will take place before the summer. The bill clarifies that disciplinary law applies to serious offences of sex and violence in the private sphere. We can do that now, but it's getting much sharper. It offers the possibility of a ban on treating patients throughout care. What actually happened in practice? I think a lot has happened. However, you always want more and you always want it to happen faster. I think that we have made a huge blow to the openness of things, to the clarity of things, to knowing why someone has gotten something, but we must always keep working on it. I've already indicated what was going on with those two lists. The BIG register worked through the old system. Those 80s were no longer in the BIG register, but it was not explicitly said that they had been crossed out. They were just taken out. Those two lists have been adapted to each other. We did a review on that to test whether that was exactly the same. How is it that the sounds of whistleblowers come to us via the media? Is that because the inspection is overloaded? The inspection is also getting more and more reports. Reports are coming out through the media, but they represent only a fraction of what is actually reported. During the inspection, the number of people reporting on colleagues increased by 20%. The attention in politics and the tightening up of laws and regulations makes it more an item and becomes more aware of these routes. So you can see that's actually happening. Then there are reports you get from the media. Those are the issues you need to figure out. The issue of needles we're still figuring out. The Netherlands is the only country that has taken action in the field of needles. Other countries have not followed us. The investigation is still ongoing, so we cannot yet conclude whether it is actually a problem. If it really is a problem, then the question is what obstacles there are to go to the inspection. That's what we're trying to figure out. Another question is whether the routes are good enough. We'll look into that. I want to take it seriously, too. We see a particle via the media, but thanks to the inspection and through our own organisations we see the majority of the reports. How do we prevent damage caused by doctors? I want to make it possible for the D.E.A. to impose a ban on treating patients. That can be done for the whole care. That's how I want to pull out the extended arm construction. You can see now that people can work through the extended arm construction. I don't think that's desirable. I also want to improve the exchange of information between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Health Inspectorate. I will return to criminal law and disciplinary law. Both are necessary. The point of criminal law is less with me, but I will let it run along the path. Mrs Bouwmeester rightly says that the culture of care must first of all focus on safety. There must also be a culture in which, if something goes wrong, you can learn from your mistakes and improve those mistakes. I find that incredibly important. If we are merely repressive, we are throwing away this whole culture, which is very important in health care. We have to be careful about that. It has been said that it is not going well in the implementation. I don't share that analysis. Something's going wrong with the performance. We really want to minimize the chance of this going wrong, but I think it is getting better in the implementation by putting a lot of focus on it. We have taken a lot of measures over the past year. We've made a lot of improvements. Let us be clear: it is now three years since the public's insightal system was introduced, where we can see why someone has received a certain reprimand or a limitation of authority from the inspection. They're huge steps. I do my utmost to convince colleagues from other countries that a transparent system in which everyone can watch is the best, but you can see that a lot of countries are not yet ready. They don't want such a system, even given the privacy of the doctors. While we believe that a patient has a right to know if a doctor has a limitation of competence, many countries say that no one needs to know, because it is about the doctor's privacy. So you can look at that in different ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u34	During the examination of the amendment of the BIG Act, Mr Van Gerven, together with the Minister, took steps to make those reprimands and other convictions less clear than removal in the BIG register. We have increased this together, because we believe that transparency is important. I come back to an answer that the Minister gave very quickly earlier. I asked why there are two different lists. In the BIG register you can go back to the source of the professional and see what the measures are. Then you also have the online list. At this time of digitization it seems to be a string, because it doesn't connect. Then we also want to work together internationally. I'm seeing the I.T.'s jammed again. Is it an idea that we harmonise it more and that it becomes a single list, so that mistakes, such as copy and take-over errors, cannot be made?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u35	Of course, you strive for that, but sometimes it is practically impossible. However, you strive to do it as simple as possible, to avoid errors. That also means that you minimize the number of transfers and that you try to make a system as lean and mean as possible. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u36	The Always Wat Monitor of September 1 revealed that the two did not correspond to each other. Let me put it this way: I hope it is still a little bit understandable. There's been a review over it. I understand that there is commitment and focus on it and that everyone has the desire to do the right thing. But as long as there are different registration lists, you keep saying there can be mistakes, because it's still human work. What does the Minister intend to do to harmonise this? If the Minister does not have the answer now, it may be included in the response following the evaluation of the BIG Act. It becomes easier for all of us to look it up and there can just be fewer errors, because you have one registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u37	I fully agree with Mrs Leijten that we should not do things twice and should not have two lists if this is not necessary. As far as the BIG register is concerned, I have already discussed with Mr Van Gerven that we are trying to make the registers as public-friendly as possible. You can have a register, but you have to be able to find something in it. One of the important things is working with the BIG registration number. A Dr. Jansen? Maybe there are ten in Amsterdam. Then I also know his house number and not just his work number. Those are all the successes we still want to make. The BIG registry number is really going to play a very important role, making it easy for patients to search the systems. So I fully agree with Mrs Leijten. I am very motivated to make these systems effervescent. The C.I.B.'s been working on that very hard. It should be as simple as possible, with as little confusion as possible and as little duplication as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u38	The Minister continues her speech, insofar as it still needs to be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u39	Yes, certainly still, Mr. Chairman. I've come to the number of reports. Is this all about reports of whistleblowers through the media? No, you can see that society, including doctors and nurses, have much more real attention to the subject. If you look at the number of reports of citizens' calamities, but also of people working in care, you can see that they are all very rising lines. One is more alert and knows where to be and what to do. How can you prevent implementation problems and ensure that it is not only good on paper, but that it is also good in practice? At national level, the CIB makes agreements on data exchange with the registration committees, disciplinary colleges, the inspection, the prosecutor's office and the courts. Where this is not yet the case, it will now be written down in service level agreements, so that it is very clear who is responsible for what and what deadlines apply. By way of derogation from these agreements, interested parties shall contact each other directly. So you can see that there is a professionalisation hit in these kinds of structures. The CIB also has regular consultations with actors. The quality of the BIG registry is monitored through audits, audience research and customer satisfaction research. The system itself is periodically tested to avoid errors. This allows us to identify weaknesses and risks in web applications. In 2014 a review was carried out on the transit of the online list to the BIG registry. All new registrations of more than one year old and re-registration applications included in the sample shall be subject to a pre-defined format by the CIBG in Dutch, English, French and German for limitations of jurisdiction. At international level, as of 2016, European Member States are obliged to actively exchange information on restrictions of competence from 2016. In order to reduce the risk of the exchange of information at international level, I have therefore made these bilateral agreements with a number of neighbouring countries. The Netherlands is currently sending the online list of measures to all EU Member States on a monthly basis. Whether we have an exchange or not, whether we have bilateral agreements or not, we just send them all our lists. The inspection shall monitor manufacturers and suppliers of medical devices and evaluate the error messages concerning medical devices. Indeed, I have already indicated in the AO tools that I am looking at where I can best place the hotline. Is that with Lareb? I think that makes sense, but there may be arguments for not doing so. I will come back to that before the summer and clarify it more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u40	I see Mrs Bouwmeester walking to the interrupting microphone. That will be your third interruption, Mrs Bouwmeester. Can you take it with you in your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u41	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Sorry. I forgot we were only gonna do two interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u42	I come to the quality control systems of the medical devices. In this respect, we certainly have another battle to take, as we have noted together in general consultation on medical devices. We are working at European level to adjust the European regulatory framework a little bit, and we want the notified bodies to function much better. We all know the example of the pomegranate. These are things we do not want to see in Europe. I fully agree with Mrs Bouwmeester that we really have another battle to take and that we should be on top of that. It's not going fast. I remember coming to the European Commissioner's office and hearing it: it was arranged for the summer. We are already in the summer, but we are almost a year away. It is really necessary that we continue to put pressure on it in Europe in order to be able to make real meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u43	So the Commissioner didn't say what summer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u44	That's right. Maybe that was the pitfall, Mr. Chairman. It could be. Mr De Lange said: if you do not have a bilateral exchange system, you should no longer register the professional from abroad. However, we do have a European system, in which professionals have to provide a statement, which should not be older than three months, which does not apply to them any restriction of competence. So it is not true that there is nothing at all with these other countries now, but we want to have a much faster exchange system in the current era. However, this does exist. Then I come to the written consultation, the VSO. On 27 January I received 132 questions from your Chamber, following our position on the evaluation of the BIG Act. We are working on the answer, but we need consultation with the inspection, with Security and Justice and with the CBG. We aim to send those answers to the Chamber in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u45	I still have a question about how countries that are not active in this exchange of information deal with that. In the current methodology I notice that the Netherlands takes huge responsibility in going after things themselves. The essence of my plea is: lay the burden of proof above all with the medical professional who would like to work in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, that professional should clearly have a role to play in providing evidence from the country where that person comes from. Wouldn't it make much more sense to lay the burden of proof on that person, so that that person has to prove actively: I am good in my profession, I haven't messed around in the past and therefore can go on in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u46	So we already have that, only it works a little old-fashioned, with such an explanation. It may not be older than three months. We have worked hard to get an electronic system so that you can pass it on to each other if someone has a restriction on his or her professional activity or if someone may no longer be allowed to practice his or her profession at all. That doesn't just apply to doctors. We have also been able to extend it to other professionals. So it is there. You have to make such a statement, and it shouldn't be older than three months. That is the paper that we have often discussed in debates. There is still a battle over that, and it is right to do so. We are indeed dragging this harder than other countries. Some countries consider that our method is not on the table because they have a very different system. In Germany it is not centrally regulated but at Länder level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u47	If I understand correctly, after the information has been provided, we will make another effort to make sure that there are no indications that the information has been proposed too brightly. In this way we are sure that the ones who enter our BIG register are in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u48	That is what we are doing to prevent anyone from getting a ruling against him a month after he got his piece of paper. The paper would still be valid in itself, but there is a ruling. So the system is improving. We are working with each other to further improve that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u49	The Minister continues her speech. I see now that she has completed that. Mrs Leijten has the floor for her second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u50	I'm just gonna come back and not look away from a colleague. I would now like to try to put two questions that have remained in one interruption so that you may be served, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u51	That's a tight plan. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u52	We've talked about this before. At that time, the Minister promised that she would talk to professional associations about the way in which this is handled. It's actually part of the professional and professional oath. You can't do anything to harm patients. Shouldn't this also be laid down in professional directives? In a broadcast of ZEMBLA yesterday it was reported that the person who had reported in-house that there was a medical examination with psychiatric patients who are not suitable for that and b do not know that research is being conducted on them, was fired and obtained a silent contract with them. We want the first, but the second comes in the media. How does that relate to each other? I also asked what is wrong, because it seems that whistleblowers have to find a way through the media to expose abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u53	I believe that I have answered that question. I said that we see whistleblowers in the media, but that we also see them at the inspection. Some of the whistleblowers come out through the media. Then you need to figure out why these people went to the media and not to the inspection. In the cases we have, we are also looking at them. Sometimes it turns out that a whistleblower didn't explicitly report it at the inspection or that he made a phone call and then didn't call back. We'll figure it out. We are looking at whether there are reasons why we can improve the system, because that is what it is all about in the end. As far as the psychiatric patients are concerned, you asked me this week to find out. That's what we're doing right now. I want to know what happened there. I also want to know whether the review committees that approve such an investigation have done so in accordance with the rules, in other words in accordance with the laws that we have before us. We've talked about contracts of silence before. The inspection has indicated that non-disclosure contracts should not be allowed. You need to be able to tell how things are going in an organization and you need to be able to be open about abuses. We'll sort this out, and I'll get back to you on that. An open reporting culture is incredibly important. The Federation of Medical Specialists is also actively working on this. Intervision and discussion within the Federation have been initiated. That's extremely important and you can see that it's paying off. As I said in response to a question, the number of reports from professionals at the inspection increased by 20%. So you can see it's had an effect. The 2013 annual picture shows that the total number of notifications is 9,650, of which 72% are from healthcare providers and 18% of citizens. When you look at everything at the inspection, you can see that everything is rising. It's because of openness. It used to be like, "Where am I supposed to go with it? Well, never mind." I always say, "If you look harder, you'll find more." That is what we are doing now, with the pathways, the debates here in the Chamber and the new programmes. You can see that the consciousness is increasing and the inspection is getting a lot of reports. In this respect, I think that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u54	There's almost 10,000 reports at the inspection. We just happened to make a work visit the other day. As a result, I know that there are also mandatory reports and that it is very difficult to divide that list into a debate here. Of course, growth of 20% can be very good. However, if it goes from very little to a little less, we cannot say so much about it. It's my job to ask if you're safe to go. I've talked to the minister about that before. Of course, you want a whistleblower to be heard in an organization and that the failure is resolved. Then we'll probably never hear it. Maybe the inspection will hear it. However, I do think that we should eventually have a culture of safe reporting. My question was whether there is now. I agree with the Minister that more attention will also lead to more reports. It is possible that people are sitting at home watching this debate, or perhaps other debates, working somewhere and thinking they see things that aren't good, but they don't have the confidence that they can go somewhere safe. Then what can we offer these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u55	What I see is more openness. What I see is that it is much more subject of discussion within professional groups. How you correct each other is also much more subject of conversation. What do you do if there's a dysfunctional professional on your team? Are you gonna let that go, don't you look at it or talk to each other about it? That's actually being picked up by the Federation. You can see that we have more openness in the BIG register, that everyone can see if someone has a restriction on their professional activity and why that is. We also have a culture of safe reporting. Besides, you can always go to the inspection if you think something really needs to be reported. The inspection will work on that. You can also always report your concerns to the National Health Service. The very best is of course if you do not walk that road, but can make it negotiable in your own organisation. That's how it's supposed to be, reporting safely and working together in your own organization. If you really can't do that, you can always go to the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u56	Clear. You completed your speech. Then we came to the end of the first term by the government. I propose that we move on to the second term of office. Speaking time shall be one minute, with no more than one interruption in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u57	Mr. Chairman. In 2012, Minister for the first time, for the first time, he told me that in the future the criminal court could also impose a professional ban if a criminal offence was committed in private time. Since then, all I get is letters saying: we are in consultation with Security and Justice. Now is the time for something to happen. I'm going to table a motion, but the best thing would be if there was just a letter next week from the ministers of VWS and from V and J that they were just gonna do this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that very serious crimes such as sexual abuse committed by doctors and other healthcare professionals should be able to lead to a professional ban;]] [[considers that the criminal court should be able to impose a professional ban regardless of the place in which the offence was committed, whether during working time or in the private sphere;]] [[noting that this recommendation was also made by the researchers of the second evaluation of the BIG Act;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for the criminal court to impose an overall professional ban on any form of assistance, irrespective of the setting in which the person concerned committed the crime, and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-222]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u58	I'll come to a conclusion. I would like to put one more question to the Minister. Once upon a time, there was a Dutch dentist in France. The newspapers were full of them in the Netherlands. A spokesperson for the inspection has literally said: if the French impose restrictive measures on the dentist, the inspection will take them over. I got this off the site somewhere. What is our surprise? Eventually, the dentist calls two or three months after the conviction himself to a television show and says: boys, shouldn't you ask the inspection why my name hasn't been crossed yet? So as long as this happens, it's not in order yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr. Chairman. The Minister says a lot has happened. Indeed, much has certainly happened in the area of openness. However, this has not yet settled the problem of findability, nor has the comprehensibility been always regulated. We have already had more debates on this. I ask the Minister to take into account how she intends to get rid of various lists in the response to the review of the BIG Act. In my view, this would benefit the openness that we all want. But, of course, openness is not the only thing. It's also about security. Do you have the idea that you can report safely? You don't think that's gonna hurt your career? Can you also discuss a possible follow-up to that safe report? Do you know exactly where you can go with what you want to report? I don't have the impression that people feel this safety. That is why I have tabled the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that caregivers who sound the alarm bell about poor quality care are not always heard and often harm their career prospects to even lay off;]] [[Whereas caregivers who have complaints about poor quality of care should be able to express them safely without any consequences for their professional functioning;]] [[calls on the government to protect whistleblowers in care and to specify how it will achieve this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-223]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u60	I would like to point out that the openness to report on security will hopefully lead to less media reporting of abuses and more frequent resolution of cases where they need to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr. Chairman. At least in this debate, I think it has become clear that much is already happening. It is, of course, important that these steps are taken on this important issue. In the meantime we have gone from a four-eyed principle to a six-eyed principle, googled in four languages and there is more public insight. It also states in the bill that BIG registration will be more active and used in all kinds of correspondence from medical staff. That seems to me to be a good proposal. The next point will remain. The Netherlands is very active towards other Member States in providing the online information. However, this does not come back very much and it is not very reciprocal. Unfortunately, there are still many countries that are not actively involved in this. That is why, as far as I am concerned, this could be more of a subject at European level. In that discussion we are also talking about free movement between medical staff. This discussion will be made more difficult if you do not make good proposals of this kind. That is why this could be a contribution to the discussion. I also hope that it will be possible to take these necessary steps in 2016. It is very good that the Netherlands is strict, but it is certainly also up to the person who will work in the Netherlands to prove that it is all in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u62	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. Steps are being taken to increase safety in healthcare, to create a safe culture that focuses on reporting and learning, and also to make the BIG system safer. I am pleased that the Minister has acknowledged that the intentions are good but that the impact still deserves improvement. We await the new BIG proposal in the summer. I have one more question. The Minister has promised that there will be a hotline for medical devices. She said, "I find it interesting to leave it at Lareb's. The PvdA doesn't really care where that hotline comes from, but we would like the hotline to be at least traceable and recognizable and to see to what extent hotlines can be bundled. After all, we have Lareb, the National Healthcare and Health Inspectorate. We would prefer it to be on that one central site, so that people who have something to worry about, think: that's where I'm going and that's where I can find my information. If a notification is made, it should not be left to that notification, but it should also be followed up. Then it has to be analysed whether it is an incident or whether it is structural and how it can be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u63	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'm asking the Minister if she needs a suspension. No, I see. Stunning peddle can be responded. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mr. Chairman. In her motion, Ms Bruins Slot called on the government to "enable the criminal court to impose an overall professional ban on any form of assistance, regardless of the setting of the person involved in the crime, and to inform the Chamber before the summer of 2015.' As one understands, the person who is primarily at stake here is the Minister of Security and Justice. However, from my answer in the first period, it has been made clear that we do not think differently about this, so I leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. Mrs Leijten asks how I want to get rid of the various lists. I would like to point out that, at the request of the Chamber, the online list, which makes all the restrictive measures individually visible, has become a separate list. With the new automation system, the lists are linked one-on-one. I think we are pursuing the same goal, namely easy to find, insightful and certainly no differences. The one-to-one coupling removes the differences in any case. Whether we should allow the online list to exist separately, perhaps we should discuss it again later. As I said, he is actually here at the request of the Chamber. I'm here to report it safely without any career damage. That's a motion. It calls on the government to "protect whistleblowers in care and to specify how it will achieve this." The motion assumes that care whistleblowers are currently not adequately protected. I don't know if that's the issue. So let me put this issue explicitly in the discussions I have with the sector: what are you doing about it, how do you deal with it within your culture? Before I come up with any measures. Perhaps the petitioner could consider holding the motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. First the dialogue, I would suggest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u65	I would like to know at what time the results of that discussion are clear. This is what I'm talking about. We would also prefer it to be resolved in the workplace, that people in care feel safe enough to go to the inspection when the quality is at stake and that the inspection can then take this up. But we do see whistleblowers. We'll keep seeing it. Sometimes they're parents, sometimes they're employees. Secretary of State Van Rijn has said that he is talking to a group of whistleblowers on a very different field, namely the question of what exactly goes wrong with reporting to relatives in disability care. I would be very happy if we could get an answer to that before the summer. Then I can hold the motion and then, before the summer or after the summer, we can look further at the analysis that the ministry is making together with the sector. I can therefore decide whether and, if so, how I intend to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u66	I wrote down "after the summer" myself. Mrs Leijten talks about "for the summer." I'm gonna need a little time, unless I stick to two conversations, 'cause I'll be done in no time. But if I really want to go around and put conversations with all my contacts on my agenda, I need a three-month cycle. Then I'll get it together. If I then ensure that the Chamber has a letter on this at the end of the summer recess, Mrs Leijten can discuss with me after the summer recess whether her motion is still on the agenda. It may then find that a lot is actually happening. I would prefer to separate this point from the Secretary of State because I do not know exactly what he is planning. Mrs. Leijten probably knows that planning better than I do. I suggest that at the end of the summer recess I come up with the state of play on what information I have collected. Then we can discuss it in the Chamber and then Mrs Leijten can draw her own conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u67	At the end of August, the Chamber will be given the status quo. Is that enough for you to hold the motion, Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u68	Yes, that is even enough to withdraw the motion. Let us just have the debate on good, safe reporting by whistleblowers and the way in which the Minister intends to deal with it. I'd like to see that letter at the end of the summer recess. I am sure that we in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will have a good time to discuss this with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u69	President. - The next item is the report (Doc. has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr. Chairman. Mr De Lange encouraged me to allow the subject of Member States' activity to be discussed at European level. I can guarantee this is true. It's high on my agenda. Very often I pay close attention to it and margin of conversation. I would add that I now know, through experience, that in some countries this is simply seen differently. With them, it's evil cherry eating. Look at Germany, where there are all kinds of Länder. There it was very complicated, but we managed to manage to communicate with one central point. Belgium ditto. France didn't want to make agreements. So we don't have one yet; see the case of the French dentist. But France is now saying: you have that with Belgium, that is close to us. As a result, the talks with France have received a certain amount of energy. We can kick the ball, but the other must also want to play the game with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u71	The dentist in question, Mark van N., was a Dutchman who worked in France. The inspection said we're following the trial closely; we're going through him as soon as he's convicted in France. The inspection just didn't do that back then. She had to be warned by someone else first. What is the Minister's weighting?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u72	The CIBG is the organisation that maintains the register and the supervisor with which other countries correspond to actually implement it. I am not claiming that it will go well at once when we have that bilateral exchange with France. Since the end of last year we have allowed the CIBG to look at it outside the exchange, also via news reports and Google, we hope to minimize that in the future along those roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u73	I find it disappointing that the Minister says it is the responsibility of that one body. It is the responsibility of the authorities to inform each other, isn't it? The inspection should have made a phone call to the CIBG to say that all the Dutch newspapers said that the Dutch dentist who worked in France had been convicted and crossed out; do you think about going through that Dutch dentist? Isn't that part of a good partnership?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u74	Yes, but in 2014 the BIG Registry contacted the competent authorities in France on several occasions about this person. The French authorities have indicated that they will inform the Netherlands if a restriction of competence is imposed on the person concerned. Despite that commitment, France failed to report by the end of 2014 that the person concerned had been struck in France. At the beginning of 2015, the person concerned was struck as a dentist in the Netherlands. You're gonna hang on. If a country says it warns as soon as it gets through to someone, but it doesn't, then it's a few months later than that cancellation took place. With this new system to be implemented on 1 January 2016, the French authorities would automatically inform the Dutch authorities about such a decommitment and you will have it. The weakest link in the chain is always the problem. Mrs Bouwmeester says that a hotline must be findable and recognizable. She asked if we could pool that. I very much agree with that. That is why we have not yet taken a decision. We're looking at the most logical place for that hotline. Side effects of medicinal products may be reported with Lareb. Lareb keeps track of these side effects and can also take action if a pattern or trend is seen. You can do that with tools, such as a PIP implant, even if you get physical complaints. If you could report that to Lareb, you could see a trend there and say that that tool needs to be dealt with. That's a little different from the inspection. We all have rules to report to the inspection, including as a manufacturer. Because Lareb is already the hotline for medicines, we are looking at whether that would also make sense for devices. Or isn't that link being made and should we place it somewhere else? I share the criteria mentioned by Mrs Bouwmeester. I'll get back to you before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you for this commitment. I totally agree with that. A question from the first term has remained that I have just forgotten to ask. There's also a situation that as a patient you don't know there's something going on, like those needles that are still under investigation. If you don't know that yourself and a manufacturer doesn't do anything, there's nothing to report. Then the manufacturer can go his divine way. That is why I asked in the first term whether the cabinet is considering how to improve internal and external supervision, because it is so free to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u76	The manufacturer must report to the inspection. That is a legal obligation for the manufacturer. That goes for all the tools. For devices implanted, a register has been set up. That could be a great improvement. This does not apply to needles, because they are not implanted, but then the manufacturer must report to the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u77	Needles have not been reported at inspection, non-sterile heart catheters have not been reported, heart equipment in ambulances that does not appear to work is not reported. There seems to be a pattern, I repeat, of devices that do not work, but which are not reported. So there's a gap there. It is now a second deadline and Thursday evening, so I ask the cabinet to come back to it in writing, because something must be done about this gap in terms of patient safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u78	I'm not ready to say there'd be a gap. That about those needles we are figuring out, but so far we have not had any results in such a way that they can be reported. We're the only country. We're doing inspections. We work very well together with the Belgian inspection, which is also on top of that. I can't be sure about this because they're still working on it. So they're reports, including the second one, and they're still under investigation. We cannot therefore conclude at this stage whether something is really going on. Here's what I'll do. As a result of these needles, I have promised the Chamber to inform her as soon as there is anything to report. I will include this question in the relevant letter. If it turns out there's nothing wrong with these reports, I don't know if there's a gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u79	Sounds like a clear deal to me. The Minister was at the end of her speech, which brings us to the end of the discussions. Thank you all for their input and interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-16-tweedekamer-9.u80	The vote on the motion will be on Tuesday. I wish you all a joyful evening at work.
