ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber and in the public gallery. In particular, I welcome the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. We have agreed a four-minute speaking time per group. Mr Bontes, Mr Kuzu and Mr Houwers have less speaking time. That's how it's agreed at the Bureau. Since the Prime Minister really has to leave today at 1.30 p.m. in order to be in Brussels at 5 p.m., we have just agreed that we will interrupt twice in the first period, so that there is maximum room for discussion with the government in particular. I give the floor to the first speaker, Mrs Voortman, from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, agreement was finally reached on the redistribution of 160,000 refugees from overstretched border countries. That is a victory for a social Europe and great news for these refugees. It is a good sign that Europe is no longer being held hostage by right-wing populism. A good first step has been taken towards a common asylum policy, which ultimately improves both the refugees and Europe itself. I would like to congratulate the Cabinet for that. I do have some questions about the agreement. Is it true that the penalty for non-cooperation by the Member States has been removed from the redistribution, or is that not true? What exactly is it about? Will the Netherlands now fully implement its share of the redistribution key? What is the Dutch commitment to a permanent system of redistribution? The point is that we do not have to go through this difficult process again in a number of years. Will the Netherlands be cooperative in the legislative process that will take place for this purpose? We do not want a few months' discussion to take place in a few years' time, and we do not want a group of refugees to be included on an occasional basis. There really needs to be a permanent system for redistribution. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Now that there's finally an agreement, it's time to move on. There needs to be an EU-wide resettlement effort, as included in Juncker's plan. GroenLinks is in favour of a more generous resettlement policy, as they are the most vulnerable people eligible for such resettlement. Children, the elderly, the sick; those are the people who most need our help. There is already a proposal from the European Commission to resettle 20 000 people. Can the Prime Minister promise to make every effort to get his colleagues to agree to a mandatory variant of this resettlement? If this did not lead to agreement, would the Netherlands at least be prepared to significantly increase the number of people involved in the UNHCR programme over the next four years? I'd like to get a response to that. Then I come to the shelter in the region. According to the Cabinet, this is the long-term solution. Although GroenLinks does not believe that you could then close the borders, we also want the reception in the region to be improved. Decent reception in the region is only realistic if Europe invests heavily in it. That is in the interests of the refugees. It is in the interests of the countries we are talking about. It's in our own best interest, too. If the state of care in the region is depravable, if your children cannot go to school and if there is nothing else you can do but wait for food to be distributed again, you are fleeing from these camps. For 2015 alone, there is a deficit of 4.2 billion for funding. Does the Prime Minister share his Foreign Minister's view that massive investment is needed? What additional contribution from the Netherlands, other than the promised 110 million, can we attach to this position? Does he want to make a major joint investment by the European Union part of the EU summit? That's better than each country doing its own things separately. Finally, the Netherlands can handle this. The many wonderful initiatives to help refugees prove that. This is also demonstrated by the large numbers of people who volunteered for the Red Cross. This is demonstrated by municipalities and their inhabitants by making room for the reception of refugees, despite the fact that this is not the case for everyone without great concern about what this means for the municipalities and for the neighborhood. We are not a country that says when it becomes equally difficult: its own people first. We're a country that says you're safe here. Although it doesn't all happen by itself, we'll get out of there together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Do you remember? Two weeks ago, there was an asylum debate with the Prime Minister and there was talk of 1,800 asylum seekers a week coming to the Netherlands. Last week there was another debate with the Prime Minister about an asylum influx of 3,100 people. Today the Prime Minister comes again and the counter stands at 4,200 asylum seekers per week. So the more Prime Minister Rutte discusses asylum seekers, the more they come to the Netherlands. He does not stop the asylum seekers, but receives them with open arms. Our Prime Minister is a huge asylum magnet: he attracts them and welcomes them. All those thousands of asylum seekers who come to the Netherlands every week are not even enough for this cabinet. Yesterday an additional 7 000 asylum seekers were signed in Brussels. So they're on top of the thousands that come here every week on their own. Instead of pulling the emergency brake, the cabinet gives extra gas and many more asylum seekers are brought to the Netherlands. It's simply unimaginable. These insults by the Dutch citizen will not be brought to an end. Last week, the Prime Minister repeatedly said that there will never be a financial obstacle to the reception of asylum seekers. No matter how many people come, they'll be paid. In other words, there is a very large blank cheque. A better message for lucky seekers, asylum lawyers and smugglers is not, of course, conceivable. What a blow to the face of the hardworking Dutch, who are forced to pay for the downfall of their country. The cabinet wants to solve everything at European level, but everyone sees that EU stuff only leads to more problems and more asylum seekers. We saw that yesterday, and we always see that. Brussels only stands in the way of solutions. That is why I call on the Prime Minister not to go there today; stay home and put things in order here. Now finally choose the importance of the Netherlands. Show that your heart beats for your own people. Do your duty and close the Dutch borders. Do your duty to our country and don't allow any more asylum seekers. Stop gibberishing our prosperity, our culture and our security. This cabinet can take an example from Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán. When he saw the asylum influx in Hungary rising, he closed the borders of his country. Afterwards, the number of migrants entering Hungary fell sharply. The Hungarian Prime Minister stands for Hungary. Why do we not have a prime minister who stands for the Netherlands? If our Prime Minister stood in front of the Netherlands, he would not allow a weekly asylum influx of more than 4,000 people. He wouldn't say: add 7,000 more. If our Prime Minister were in front of the Netherlands, he would have all these asylum seekers taken up in his own region, in those wealthy wave states that now have nothing to do because the residence permits are here for picking up. If our Prime Minister were in front of the Netherlands, he would not sign a blank cheque for all asylum seekers, but would give extra money to Dutch people who desperately need that support, like our own elders. To stand up for the Netherlands requires wisdom and courage; the wisdom to close the borders and the courage to stop asylum seekers and choose for our own people. It's never too late to make the right choice, so I say to the Prime Minister. Do that today. Stay in the Netherlands. Choose our own beautiful country. Better late than never.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Monday evening I was in Amsterdam, visiting the sports centre of the Calandlyceum. Within a few days, the municipality of Amsterdam, together with the COA and the Red Cross, was able to organise reception for 300 refugees. I would like to express my congratulations on the many communities that are implementing emergency care in such a short space of time. I was also impressed by the number of volunteers who were actively present there, picked up by e-mail or a phone call. They were out there handing out food or sorting out clothes. The willingness of the Dutch was heartwarming again. But at the same time there are people who are wondering how long the Netherlands can last the influx of 4,200 a week. That is why it is good that yesterday it was decided to achieve a fair distribution in Europe. That is why it is a good thing that this cabinet is paying extra money for the reception in the region. It is therefore a good thing that there is a new summit between America and Russia to work at the root of the conflict. I ask the cabinet, now it has been decided to divide it, when the Netherlands is going to take up 7,000 extra refugees. If the EU has decided to achieve a fair distribution, we will still have to work with the central selection and reception centres at Europe's external borders. Is the Prime Minister going to bet on this tonight? If we do not, people will continue to blow off and we will continue to have degrading situations in Europe. We have to catch people at the gate, select them there and then come to a fair distribution. Is the cabinet going to bet on that? Then we will cut off the smugglers, at least in Europe. The ink of the distribution was not yet dry, or the obligation was no longer accepted by Slovakia. Other countries also have doubts. What's this cabinet gonna say later? Are we going to get fines, are EU money withheld, what is the government going to do? If these countries are not included, the distribution will only become more unfair. Is there going to be a permanent distribution rate now? We can meet the 120,000 now, but we've had the 40,000 before. This is an appointment from six months ago. In a few weeks, we'll have a new influx. There must be a permanent distribution rate. Is the cabinet going to bet on that? Yes, shelter in the region must be provided. The cabinet has its mouth full and so does Europe. But if we look at UNHCR figures this morning, we can only see a falling trend in European contributions to the UN refugee organisation. The US contribution is increasing, but Europe is spending less money on receiving care in the region. Good thing Minister Koenders was in Lebanon yesterday. He saw with his own eyes how lousy the situation is there. Many of us have gone before him and seen the situation in Lebanon. Is the Minister going to press hard for more money for this important reception in the region? Finally, the conflict in Syria itself. Will the Prime Minister insist on a Syria summit? The US and Russia have expressed their desire to reunite, but what is the role of the EU? Is the EU applying? What should this joint approach of ISIS look like? What is Europe going to say when it comes to those terrible barrel bombs, which are actually a substitute for Assad's chemical weapons? How do we force Assad to stop those barrel bombs? I am thinking out loud: could Europe not threaten to set up a no-fly zone to stop Assad with those barrel bombs? Let the Russians insist on this with Assad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Refugees are the conversation of the day, not only here in the Lower House, but also outside on the street, with all people in the country. It will not surprise anyone that the SP is happy that the cabinet has decided to implement what is now being asked of us at European level and to do so generously. We are happy that the Netherlands wants to take up its responsibilities and has already said a number of times: if other countries join, we are prepared to contribute, then we will take up thousands of people in the Netherlands and then we will participate in this redistribution. We are also happy that the Netherlands wants to give money to organisations that are active in the region and that ensure that fathers, mothers, children and older people are taken care of and get a roof over their heads, even though it is still very limited. These organisations also ensure that in some cases children can go to school for an hour a day, however little it is, and that there are programs for them, so that they can be just a child for a while. I have seen for myself how that money is spent, including in Lebanon and Turkey. It is very important that we do so. The cabinet therefore deserves a compliment because it contributes to this. However, I wonder a number of things. Long-term solutions are always discussed, with particular reference to the flow of refugees. The question then is: how do we stop this flow of refugees, especially towards Europe? That is understandable, but would it not be much more important to place much more emphasis on the real long-term solutions, such as a more sensible foreign policy, fair trade and solidarity with poorer countries and peoples? How does the Cabinet see this? I hear so little about that. It is good that there is a solution at European level for a group of 120,000 refugees, but in the meantime, of course, there are many more people in countries such as Italy, Greece and Hungary. The problem isn't solved. How does the Cabinet see this? There's no consensus. How feasible is this plan now that a number of countries have indicated that they will insist to the courts that they will not participate in the implementation? What about the Common European Asylum System? Is there any work to be done on central registration centres? Is the plan of my colleague in the European Parliament, Dennis de Jong, still being implemented? The cabinet has devoted quite a few words to the reception in the region, as well as all kinds of groups in the House of Representatives. My group agrees that it is very important that there is adequate reception in the region. But what, after all the words that have been said about this in recent months, has already been done concretely to improve that? For example, has consultations been held with countries such as Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan? How do these countries view this? We in the Chamber can, of course, agree that they need to better manage their reception and that they want to pay for it, but I believe that Lebanon will be pleased if a substantial number of these people, according to official figures, are now about 1.2 million people travelling to Europe, at least because they will no longer be in the budget and the people of Lebanon. There are many questions with the Dutch people. I would like to draw your attention to two of them here. Firstly, there are questions about housing. If people say that they find it scandalous that they have to wait a very long time for a social rental home in the Netherlands, then I am quite right with them there. At the same time, we know, or at least my party does not know, that the waiting lists in the rental sector have been caused by the fact that the social rental sector has been turning its back for years, to name but a few. Social housing is hardly being built anymore and what is there is is quickly being given to the free market. That's asking for trouble. That's why we're much less able to handle influx at the moment. Can I ask the Cabinet to conclude an agreement with municipalities, to make quick work of good temporary shelter now that there are far too few social housing units? Can we please start building for the social sector as quickly as possible? Without asylum seekers, too, there would be a huge number of people waiting for an affordable home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. For the third time in three weeks, we are talking about the refugee problem. However, there is one big difference: yesterday the JHA Council showed muscle and decided by majority to relocate 120,000 asylum seekers from Greece and Italy. This is an important first step towards a European approach. My group is pleased that the Netherlands has voted for this, that the Netherlands has been generous. My group is also satisfied with the answer last night to the written questions. I thank the Secretary of State for that. The answers show that there is no question of closing the external borders for asylum applications. I do have some questions for the Prime Minister. How does he see the further development of the decision taken? When is the Netherlands taking up 7,000 asylum seekers? How does the Prime Minister indicate the position of Slovakia and Hungary? What happens if those countries continue to refuse admission? Will European subsidies be withheld? See how asylum seekers are received in Hungary, in our own European Union. The Hungarian Parliament has adopted a law allowing arms to be used against asylum seekers crossing the border, asylum seekers seeking security. Can the Prime Minister respond to this and how will he address his Hungarian colleague? Is it true that the Netherlands is still carrying out Dublin transfers to Hungary? If so, can the Secretary of State suspend these transfers, following the example of his Austrian and German colleagues? This first step is good, but there is a great hurry to really get European asylum policy in order. Thousands still reach European borders. Without agreement, we will have another summit next month on the distribution of refugees. Is the cabinet still committed to increased rescue capacity in the Mediterranean, joint registration at the external borders, a permanent distribution key, revision of the Dublin Regulation, and a common return policy? I would like a response, also to the question of the length of time at which the cabinet hopes to achieve this. The rush is great. The cabinet itself has already indicated: the realization of reception in the region is not just arranged in a day, not in a week and not in a month. The Special Envoy in Lebanon says that Lebanon itself has been stunned by the proposal to receive more refugees there. The Lebanese Foreign Minister said yesterday: there can be no further integration of refugees in my country; they must return to Syria. Aid organisations said they needed 6.5 billion in 2015. 38% of them have been committed. In Jordan, a third of the 630,000 Syrian refugees did not receive any food aid in September. In Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey more than 700,000 Syrian children cannot go to school. This makes it particularly painful and even more clear that support for the region is urgently needed. But it's not fixable either, not today, not tomorrow, not next month, not next year. The last five years haven't worked out. How and in what time does the government intend to create security and perspective there? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Can he promise that there will soon be a letter of amendment to the budget of Minister Ploumen with a substantial contribution to reception in the region? The reality is that refugees come in large numbers. Every day they don't learn the language here in the Netherlands and sit sideways is a lost day. There is a great hurry to provide language courses, recognition of diplomas, prospects for the labour market. I therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he can undertake to send a letter, preferably for the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs and Employment and integration, with a cabinet plan of approach to ensure that this influx of asylum seekers can be received as effectively as possible. I'm concluding. We are going to receive people in Europe as best we can. We're gonna split the burden. It is now also important to take the next steps quickly, in the Netherlands and in Europe. Let us provide support and ensure that our society is ready to receive and absorb these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Europe is being flooded. We are talking about a migration of people. In the last quarter, the Netherlands experienced the strongest growth in the number of new asylum seekers across Europe. Last week, 4,200 asylum seekers arrived. IS claims to have smuggled in thousands of jihadists. Nevertheless, the borders remain open. Rutte II is a danger to the Netherlands. Young Muslim men, armed with sticks and iron bars, are trying to reach Germany and the Netherlands. We see true battles at the borders of Hungary and Croatia. It's an asylum seekers' intifada. We're just importin' shit. Rape, violence and gang formation are commonplace in asylum seekers' centres. The shelter costs billions and is far beyond our absorption capacity. However, according to the director of the COA, these asylum seekers are an enrichment and a huge potential. The best man lives in a fairy tale world and is unfit for his task. The German collective guilt is the nail on the coffin of Europe. Merkel set our continent on fire. Eastern European governments that are critical of compulsory redistribution are now subject to a dictation. The EU is once again showing its true, undemocratic nature. Two thirds of the Dutch do not want new asylum seekers or compulsory distribution. Two thirds want to denounce the Schengen Convention and only take care of it in the region. These people are ignored by the political elite. The population has no say in the arrival of asylum seekers' centres in their streets and neighbourhoods. 3,000 asylum seekers in Nijmegen, 1,000 asylum seekers in Weert and 600 in the Duinrel amusement park. Hundreds of asylum seekers will again come into our country today. They often have the latest iPhone, expensive brand clothing and the same hipster beard as the Secretary of State. They come not for their safety, but for a home and a benefit, and then for their whole family to come. That's the truth. We need to get the direction back quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Almost everyone has an opinion about refugees, but hardly anyone listens to the refugees. We at DENK spoke to Syrian refugees in Rotterdam last week. Syrian refugees love their country and prefer to return to safe Syria as soon as possible. Does the government actually talk to refugees? Is the government willing to cooperate with Syrian organisations in the Netherlands? All the leaders in Europe have pointed out to each other in recent months. They did an electoral profit-making trade with refugees; a public auction for the opinion poll. It was like a kindergarten class: "not with me, not with me, I do so much already, it's not fair" and that kind of lyrics. Fortunately, at last there is an agreement on the distribution of refugees. Better late than never, but this is just a start. Much more needs to be done. It is especially important now, and it is also time to reassure the Dutch people. We can imagine that the flow of refugees has caused a lot of uncertainty among Dutch people, but now there is a fair distribution and there are plans to limit the influx. Moreover, it appears that asylum seekers' centres can also have added value for many municipalities. They are good for employment and for small and medium-sized enterprises. Prejudice disappears when people get to know each other. The emergency situation in the region remains. Millions of refugees live there under terrible conditions. We need more money in the region now. UNHCR is running out of EUR 2.4 billion. Europe is systematically lagging behind as a donor. That is why I ask the Prime Minister this evening whether he will argue in favour of doing more at European level for reception in the region and playing a leading role there as the Netherlands. The 25 million that Minister Koenders made available to Lebanon last week is €1.50 per refugee per month. A cheeseburger a month. No wonder they all want to come to Europe. More money to the region is therefore in the interests of everyone, of the Netherlands, of the refugees and of everyone you can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few weeks, we have spoken several times about the major refugee problem in Europe. Right now, our asylum system is exploding. The number of refugees is now higher than in the 1990s. Behind the faces of refugees are great human dramas. We see them on TV every day, but by now there are many places in the Netherlands where refugees report for shelter and security. The European Union has now reached an agreement on the way in which we are working together, but there are quite a few loose ends to this. I would like to ask some questions about that. The Council states that it holds on to 120,000 refugees at all costs: 66,000 now and 54,000 in a year. That's fiction. That has nothing to do with reality. Europe is faced with a multitude of these refugees. So how definitive are the 120,000, and when can we expect the next round of redistribution? Yesterday it became clear that a number of Member States are refusing to cooperate. What happens to countries that do not take responsibility? What are the consequences? Are the latest reports from Brussels that the European Commission has launched an intergroup procedure against a number of countries, including the Netherlands, because they do not have the right of asylum in order? The proposal on the table is that migrants who have arrived six months before the entry into force of the European decision can claim redistribution. That was one month before. Does the Minister have any figures, and how many refugees are actually being taken into the Netherlands? The cabinet said earlier that it wants all asylum applications in Europe to be made through a single EU-wide distribution system. Is the cabinet holding on to this position, and what is happening with it tonight? The CDA understands that a key is now needed, but this does not address the cause of the problem. There are 10 million people in Syria, Turkey, Iraq and Lebanon who actually come from Syria but do not live in their original place; they can also come to Europe. Yemen is exploding, but because you cannot sail from Yemen to the Mediterranean Sea, this is still avoiding our world view. Many people will want to go to Europe, to a safe area. Europe is now paying the price of doing nothing for four years. So we really need to do more than just arrange emergency care. Medium- and long-term solutions are needed. The medium and long term are not in years, but in weeks, in one, two or three weeks. The cabinet can't wait years. The Minister of Defence is working on possible actions by the Netherlands in a larger area than is currently the case to create safe areas. The problem on the ground must be tackled by a broad international coalition, but is it in the making? I would like to hear the actions envisaged in this area. I would also like to hear whether efforts are being made at all at this time to end the conflict in Syria. Indeed, many of these people want to go back. A final solution lies in ending the conflict. Otherwise, we will be dealing with the consequences of the consequences. What is the contribution of the EU and other countries, after all, it does not seem like a civil war, but a proxy war to end this conflict in the short term? Or are we just gonna let that go and get away from our image? Finally. The Netherlands will be President of the European Union next year. During the Presidency, the migration paper will be at the top of the list of priorities, whether or not it is in the government's letters of office. Is the Prime Minister prepared to change his official agenda and give the Presidency a top priority to resolving the refugee problem and the problem in Syria and the countries around it, and to prepare for it with the programme, with the conferences and also with the meetings? We asked that question last week, but then we did not get enough answers. Hence this question again, with great urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Besides Samia, my inspiration last year, it is Aylan and the thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands, of whom we do not know the name, who must force us politicians to finally strike a line through our current asylum migration policy. Why? Because the current asylum migration policy forces people to migrate illegally. Not only can you enter Schengen with a visa or a status, but you can also call for asylum. That makes Europe's external borders politically a hole cheese. Only by legal means, asylum on invitation from safe ports, that should be the route. I would like to thank the cabinet for making this a cabinet policy two weeks ago. I would like to thank the cabinet for the fact that this proposal was taken over by the Member States in their conclusions last Monday by the great commitment made by the Secretary of State. While no agreement was reached on the short-term policy of redistribution last Monday, agreement was reached on the final objective of safe ports in the region. The fact that an application for asylum can subsequently be declared inadmissible and that there is only an invitation to influx means that the perverse incentive is removed from the system. The VVD has already outlined this early this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	I am just trying to find out where Mr Azmani is getting the idea that his plan has become European policy, perhaps even cabinet policy. On page 6 of his own note it says: the European external borders are really closing. Last night, the cabinet said that there is no question of closing the European external borders for asylum applications. Perhaps Mr Azmani can tell us how these things relate to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's selective shopping in a proposal. I would like to challenge Mr Sjoerdsma to read the whole proposal. It is, of course, a question of stopping policy at the external borders of Europe. We don't, because of the call of asylum. As I mentioned earlier, that's the cheese of the holes. In responding to today's cabinet, we can already see the context of the future if there are no safe ports in the region. You will, of course, be open to people who come from that region and apply for asylum, and will deal with it. These are places and countries such as Colombia or so, with which we probably did not agree on safe ports, so that someone in Europe can still apply for asylum and they are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	There is no European minister who thinks that refugees can currently be returned to countries such as Lebanon and Jordan. The Lebanese Foreign Minister says that our country is on the verge of collapse. The Tunisian prime minister says our country is on the verge of collapse. And Mr Azmani says that I should read his note once more. Well, I read it very well; it was a not so hard to read note. It was only seven pages and on page 6 Mr Azmani says: those external borders are really closing. Actually, that's the core of his note. Now Mr Azmani says: they must be politically closed. Let him tell us how a border closes policy, except by writing it on paper, as he himself did?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	That seems very clear and clear to me. Apparently, Mr Sjoerdsma wants to keep the asylum migration system now in the air. That forces people to migrate illegally. That forces people into the hands of smugglers. This causes human dramas to take place in the Mediterranean. I don't want to avoid that responsibility as a politician. I therefore propose a solution. I see as a solution that in the future, as soon as there are safe ports in the region, it will only be possible to apply for asylum by legal means. If people still choose the non-legal path, their asylum applications will be declared inadmissible. They will then be quickly returned to those safe ports. That's exactly what in conclusion No. 15 of the conclusions drawn last Monday by all the Member States. I would also like to say to Mr Sjoerdsma: look at the conclusions, including No. 15, and the plan, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	At some point you are going to believe that your own plan has been taken over completely, but perhaps Mr Azmani can still take a moment because he knows his own plan very well reflect on the results that were announced last week. They mean that when there are safe areas, people can be sent back, but when those safe areas are not there, I do not know them at the moment. Europe is still open to receiving refugees. Isn't that contrary to Mr Azmani's plan? Mr Azmani said that Europe should be open to refugees, but only to those from Europe. That's a big distinction, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	It is obviously very difficult for fellow spokesmen to put forward the whole plan. It is not about my plan, it is not about me, it is not even about the VVD, it is about us not taking measure in this debate. As politicians, we have the task of finding a solution to the great challenge we face, what this country stands for and what people experience in the various municipalities. That solution is not organized from today to tomorrow. I realize that, too. That is why it is right that Europe should continue to act on the basis of the dossier, including the redistribution that was discussed yesterday. We should not want to take account of each other's proposals. If I see that Europe also wants to move in that direction, it also wants to reduce the influx, then I think we are on the right track. This is also the cabinet's commitment to the priorities set out in the letter of 8 September. However, we did not organize it today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u17	I note that Mr Azmani is running away from his own plan. He initially started to do so himself in his own term by saying that his plans have been taken over, but let us rest now. The important thing is that we get a step further together. I agree with Mr Azmani on that. Does he and the Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore believe that the selection and reception at the external borders should take place, that we should not follow a double track both in the Member States and in a few hotspots, as stated in the conclusions of the JHA Council? If we want to achieve selection, reception and fair redistribution, we will have to organise the selection centres at the external borders. Does the VVD agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u18	I support the government's commitment to the interim phase, namely that redistribution is not optimal according to the proposals currently before us, within the framework of what the European Commission is proposing. The cabinet itself states that, if you want a redistribution, you should actually proceed to a full redistribution. I support that. Then it doesn't matter if you apply for asylum in Greece or in the Netherlands. If you then apply for asylum in Greece, you may eventually get a residence permit in the Netherlands, or you may get a residence permit in Greece if you have made your application in the Netherlands. For the short term, I see this as some sort of intermediate phase. That does not solve the problems, such as the human tragedies in the Mediterranean. We are not cutting off the human smuggling industry. We must regain control of our migration policy, the numbers and the question of who you allow in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr Azmani said that Europe's external borders should be politically closed. We also know that Mr Azmani argued for this a while ago. A VVD minister often says that the mills of Europe are grinding very slowly. Mr Azmani himself also says that it is not settled overnight. There is a root cause why people are seeking refuge in Europe. For example, this has everything to do with the fact that multinationals are very active in these areas. Why is the VVD in favour of opening up borders to trade and economic policy in favour of Europe and in favour of the Netherlands, but should borders be closed to people when the need is high?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u20	That's not what I'm suggesting. I do not think that asylum seekers or refugees should be driven into the hands of smugglers. The illegal road shouldn't be the only way. That is why I call for a legal road. That legal road is on invitation. Then, based on humanity, you select the most vulnerable people, and not, as you can see now, the people who have money to pay the smugglers. The large group is, of course, still in the shelter in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u21	You can tackle the root cause by offering the people in the region a perspective by, for example, development cooperation. By the way, the cabinet has made huge savings on this. Does Mr Azmani really believe that it will succeed if you do not tackle the root cause, but continue to work symptomatically on the proposals as he presents them? That's an illusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u22	I also say that we must be prepared to invest properly in safe ports. Then Europe really does not come out with a few million. It's really about billions. Then you'll create better conditions there. What we are now spending on asylum seekers in the Netherlands is in stark contrast to what, for example, UNCHR has available for the reception of a large proportion of refugees, displaced persons, worldwide. That is what matters to me, that we improve the conditions there for those people and that we only provide the legal road to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u23	Even if we were to spend every penny we spend in the Netherlands on asylum policy on reception in the region, that would not be enough. The deficit there is EUR 4.2 billion. Mr Azmani and I, like other political groups, have been talking for a long time about the long-term perspective he advocates, namely the policy of closing the borders. I want to talk about the step ahead. We have now agreed that the 120,000 refugees will be redistributed to Europe, but even if Mr Azmani's plans were to come true, those who are rather naïve for them will continue to be refugees in the coming years. The issue remains how we redistribute the refugees. I want to know from the VVD what her commitment is to a permanent distribution system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u24	As I indicated, our commitment will never be separate from the combination with investment. That is not going to work overnight either, but it does mean that tomorrow we have to act in those safe ports so that we can finally get the perverse stimulus that leads to the many victims we see every day. For the intermediate stage, I believe that the cabinet has made a good effort, which is to start with a redistribution where it no longer matters where the asylum application is submitted. That is better than proposing an emergency mechanism for 120,000 people, and I still have doubts about whether that will work. I have these doubts about full redistribution, but I think this proposal is better than the proposal for an emergency mechanism, and that has everything to do with the smuggling industry within the EU that you want to dismantle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u25	Now we're getting somewhere. I hear Mr Azmani say that he thinks that we should now act on investment in that region. Does Mr Azmani therefore think that there should be a great common European contribution for reception in the region? That is the first point on which I want to hear yes or no. Then there is the second point. Mr Azmani says that we should indeed divide up in a European context. Does that mean that the VVD believes that there should be a permanent distribution system, where there should not be a meeting every year about how many we are going to distribute again? Should there be a permanent distribution system? I would also like to hear a simple yes or no on that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u26	Of course, Europe must act. The Netherlands is already making the 110 million offer as the first step. This means that other Member States must do the same. The Netherlands is high on the lists in the framework of the contributions to the UNHCR. Let these other Member States do something now, I would say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u27	But it is the Netherlands that advocates shelter in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u28	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u29	It is now Europe that is advocating this. At least I'm very grateful for that. Not thankful for myself or my party, but grateful for all the human suffering we see every day. As far as redistribution is concerned, as I have already said, I am in favour of the intermediate phase towards full redistribution rather than an emergency mechanism with Greece and Italy. In itself, you can do that in the context of solidarity, but I think that we will find that this is not working very well over the next two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u30	Last week, my group made a proposal to set a maximum number of asylum seekers. We also tabled a motion on this at the time, but it was not supported by the VVD. Shortly afterwards, the leader of the VVD, Mr Zijlstra, said that the border had been reached. Is Mr Azmani prepared to support our proposal to set a maximum limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u31	It is not for nothing that this motion was not supported last week. It is not possible to work with concrete maxima. Are we talking, for example, 45,000, 45.001 or 45.002? You can't say that. We have to deal seriously with the signal that we also get from society and with the fears that exist, and we must not ignore them. It means there's got to be an act. Those actions are now being taken. In my view, we must ensure that we manage and actually reduce the flow, which is also the government's commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Zijlstra was very tough in the media with his remark: the border has been reached. My specific question then is where is the border at the VVD. Is it going to continue with this policy so that thousands and thousands of more refugees are coming in, or does it say: to here and no further? Where's the border? The chairman of Mr Azmani's group has said so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u33	We have to be realistic. Every week we talk about different numbers. The current trend, as described by Mr Fritsma in his term, is worrying. If we continue with an inflow of 4,000 to 5,000 per week in the next few weeks, it will come to an end at some point. It is already difficult to realize beds and emergency facilities et cetera. That means it shouldn't just be about words. It is also my appeal to the Prime Minister that the words now entrusted to the paper by Europe should also be translated into action. We have already seen that we are now dared to act in Europe, at least with a view to an interim solution. I must say that the European Commission's proposal that has been adopted is actually behind the facts. Is it these countries that need to be relieved? Are they not the countries of North-West Europe now? Asylum seekers are not already staying in Greece and Italy to wait for their procedure, and they will not do so in the near future either. What urgency do these two countries feel to register everyone now, as the migrants come in with hundreds of thousands? Is it true that if there is no registration, the takeover of the 120,000 will be suspended? Therefore, the cabinet's proposal to proceed as an intermediate stage to overall redistribution is better, so that it does not matter where you apply for asylum. The advantage of this is that illegal immigration within the EU actually stops, and that is already the first sledgehammer for the smuggling industry. I ask the Prime Minister how promising this proposal is after yesterday's decision. What does the Prime Minister expect from the inaugurated summit tonight? Does the Prime Minister agree with the VVD that the fact that Europe has finally succeeded in reaching decisions is not a reason for a party, but that this is just the beginning and that words should now be translated into action as soon as possible? Is the Prime Minister prepared to act as a driver and focus on limiting influx? This is possible through, on the one hand, improving reception in the region so that these people no longer have the right to asylum in Europe, and, on the other hand, strengthening return programmes and external borders and tackling the root causes. In a free, open and tolerant country like the Netherlands, we as politicians know the obligation to protect our freedoms as best as possible. This also means that we must dare to identify security risks. For example, the current uncontrolled influx of migrants cannot prevent terrorists from finding their way to Europe. Given the size of the refugee flows, jihad fighters will also come with them which pose a threat to security in Europe. That is why Europe must set boundaries. I ask the Secretary of State what approach the Cabinet intends to take to this security risk. As I said in an interrupting debate: taking measures in the political debate does not solve anything, not even in Europe. On the contrary, that is a threat. We must act now as quickly as possible. That is what we owe to the people in this country and in Europe and also to ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u34	We are in the midst of an asylum crisis in which thousands of asylum seekers come to the Netherlands every week. The more the VVD talks, the further this Prime Minister opens the borders. My question to Mr Azmani is: when will he finally whistle back to this Prime Minister? When does he demand intervention? When does he demand that the cabinet stop this madness?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u35	I'm sure the Secretary of State or the Prime Minister himself will answer that. It is very clear in the cabinet commitment that the objective is to reduce the influx to Europe. You didn't realize that today or tomorrow. Just shouting that the boundaries should be closed, many people may sound like music to the ears, but that is not the solution. This does not prevent a large influx to the Netherlands and Europe. Mr Fritsma knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u36	With the VVD fraction, as usual, it's just words. It's just words and nothing happens. Thousands of asylum seekers enter the Netherlands every week. Mr Azmani stands by and looks at it and agrees that the cabinet is not doing anything. He's too cowardly to whistle the cabinet back. He's too cowardly to whistle back his own prime minister. He is too cowardly to resist the PvdA Group, which would rather give the Netherlands away yesterday than today. Unfortunately, the Dutchman pays far too high a price for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u37	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u38	Does Mr Azmani realize that? Does he realize that because of his laxity the Dutch citizen pays a much too high price?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u39	That is a nice piece of rhetoric by Mr Fritsma, but I do not think there is any laxity. The point is to act. Merkel made a call, but returned after two weeks. It has said that it wants to monitor the borders with Austria intensively. I call on the cabinet to check the borders as well. I now see a Secretary of State acting very quickly and ensuring that borders are intensively controlled by mobile brigades. I'm content that the Cabinet is trying to manage everything. Ultimately, we must reduce the influx to Europe. It won't work with a fence, because a fence doesn't work. Look at how things are at Calais; there are other examples. It's a nice dream to put it this way, but it's not realistic and it's not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u40	A lot of refugees are coming to the Netherlands. The Secretary of State was asked very recently what we should do if there are any more. He said, "I congratulate him on that statement, very soberly: then we need to arrange for even more shelter. Does the VVD support the Secretary of State in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u41	As I indicated in the debate on the interruption with Mr Bontes, the border has been reached at some point. Then you have to take other measures to manage the influx and ultimately reduce the influx to the Netherlands. Yesterday it was decided to redistribute. In the proposals, I have seen that in a given influx of migrants you can choose not to take up your share of migrants temporarily in the context of redistribution. There are therefore proposals to ensure further stool. I think the advantage of the redistribution proposal as it stands is that there is compulsory registration in Greece and Italy. This in turn means that people must be taken back by Greece and Italy. Those are the people who are currently coming in here and who are not registered in those countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u42	In my opinion, the question was very simple: does the VVD support the Secretary of State in his sober view that if more refugees come, more reception should be arranged? I do not hear Mr Azmani answer this question with 'yes'. It seems that there is no such support. I have a second question. Mr Azmani says that the moment when no one can reach it is almost over. What should he say should happen when that moment is reached?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u43	I do not know Mr Sjoerdsma very well in the debates, because he has not been a spokesperson for immigration for very long, but at least I can see that he is a very selective shopper.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u44	I see that Mr Sjoerdsma wishes to respond to this. He'll have the opportunity in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u45	That is an observation. I also know that the Secretary of State is trying to approach the issue as soberly as possible. Then we'll do VVD as well. That is why we are proposing solutions. It is good that some solutions are actually being adopted. Mr Sjoerdsma has asked another question. At some point, it just stops. In short, that is what it comes down to. At some point you just don't have the emergency facilities and also the support in society to cope with this. And that is the job of politicians: to come up with early solutions and ensure that the basis is maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr Azmani rightly says that I am relatively new in this committee and that I am therefore also somewhat inexperienced with the fact that any interruption ends in a you-bowl. But I'm still gonna ask that serious question. The group chairman of Mr Azmani says that the moment when no one can reach it has almost come. And yes, I totally agree. We must do everything we can to maintain that support, and we must take these concerns seriously. Absolutely! That is also what my group has always said. The group chairman of the VVD says that the time is coming. The question is, what happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u47	I think it's gonna end completely. Then you try to take measures to prevent these people from ending up in the Netherlands, for example. It is very special to see that people travel through safe countries in Europe and end up in the Netherlands. They can only actually enter the Netherlands via Germany or Belgium. Then you can think about another system. For example, if Belgium does not take in so many people and people travel from Belgium to the Netherlands, you can say to those people: I have seen that you have travelled. Then there is the Dublin agreement and those people have to go back to Belgium. Those are all measures you can think of. I hope it does not come to that, but there is no point in shrugging my shoulders and saying: I do not know what solution there is either. It is up to politicians to propose solutions. If Mr Sjoerdsma knows a better solution to make this manageable, I would also like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u48	I do not see any of the politicians with whom Mr Azmani disagrees in general, shrugging his shoulders and pointing his eyes at heaven saying: I do not know and we are just doing what we are doing. I think there are a lot of solutions coming from that part of the House of Representatives. However, I do have a question about Mr Azmani's statements on acceptance and capacity. It is about the possibilities that the Netherlands still has to absorb people. Is it not also a bit the fault of Mr Azmani himself, who, since the first moment we are dealing with a higher influx, even when the figures were much lower, has always sent out the signal that it is not possible, that it is not possible, that it is not possible and that we have to close the borders because we cannot do this? Is it not also a bit the party of Mr Azmani himself that has made people feel that it is not possible? Isn't that a little short on the bend, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u49	It also has to do with foresight and with what you expect. That means that at an early stage you name something that you see coming at you. I think what we're going through this year, what we've been going through together over the last few weeks, is just a start. I predict next year's only gonna get bigger. That's why you have to come forward with proposals prematurely. With all due respect, I would have liked to come forward with these proposals earlier because I really want to avoid what we are facing every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u50	It reminds me a bit of a situation where I have a little eczema on my arm and go to the doctor in the thought that I will get an ointment, but that doctor says: we take the whole arm off right away; make an appointment with the surgeon, as a precaution we amputate your whole arm. We cannot look into the future and the figures will rise for a while now, but the point is that we can handle the influx that we know now. We have seen this in a recent past, namely in the 1990s. It doesn't give us a pass to say: close the borders, we're being flooded. We can handle it, the only thing is that we have finished the facilities in recent years in such a way that there are now insufficient beds available at the COA. Let me end with one brief question to Mr Azmani on mobile border control. With regard to Mr Azmani's mobile checks at the borders, should the Netherlands say to people: you come in via Belgium or via Germany, for you are no place here in the Netherlands, go back?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u51	As far as Mrs Gesthuizen's first assumption is concerned, we can also have the debate together, but I do not want that. We are facing problems and this is a misconception of the sentiments that exist, for example on public participation evenings at the moment in municipalities that are faced with short-term emergency services where they cannot even take the council with them. Neighbors from such a location are worried, but that's what you're really cleaning away. I think it's our job not to brush that away. No, they're not all terrorists. Yes, there are also people who may be able to contribute well to Dutch society. Is that all of them? No, it's like a normal society. You've got good people in there, but you've got bad ones too. Indeed, I think that the basis of support is going to be much more difficult in the coming period. On the MTV controls, a motion was tabled yesterday by my colleague Mrs Tellegen and a colleague of the CDA to further intensify these controls within the scope we currently have on the basis of Schengen and in view of the security risks. If these controls are insufficient, then the proposal is to look in Europe to see if you can extend them further because security is important to our country. At the same time, you can see through which borders these people enter the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mr. Chairman. Not a week goes by or we are talking about the refugee crisis in this House. That is right, because it is not only about major human dramas but also about complex administrative questions. How do we deal with that in a sensible way? It is about space on the one hand, but also about setting boundaries on the other. What can we offer for innability, but also: what limits should we respect when it comes to preventing integration problems for the future? What else can we do? Those are real questions, which also live with the citizens of the country. I come to the conversations of the day like everyone else does. You do come across a great deal of help, but also concern, sometimes with the same people. I urge the cabinet to continue to pay attention to communication on European decisions, so that people can easily find answers to the questions of what is happening, what is coming to us, and get honest images of this. It is good if we talk about this every time, but I hope that we will come a step further each time, because we know the rhetoric by now. We know where everyone is now, but what's really happening? I am glad that we are now at least a step further on yesterday's agreements and that a decision has been made on redistribution. It's important, now that that knot has been cut, that it's actually going to happen. I urge the cabinet to ensure that this is done, for example when it comes to the registration of asylum seekers. This also applies to countries such as Italy and Greece. This is also part of the agreement that has been made, I ask the Secretary of State. One is inextricably linked to the other. There is a need for strength, a step further and further in overcoming the crisis. Reception is also absolutely a spearhead for the SGP. Providing more and better care. Today the charts were back on track in the media. However, this shows that the share of UNHCR funding from the European Union has decreased and that the deficit is high. The United States has been contributing relatively more. I believe that the Netherlands has set a good example with the extra money that has been made available for reception in the region. Use this, too, although I realise that the cabinet does not need an incentive to do so, because it is important that other countries too should cross the line and fulfil that responsibility together within Europe. Only then will you have an authoritative story when you say that not everyone can come to Europe. There must be decent care in the region itself. How, after the fine intentions of the previous summit, do we intend to make much more efforts in the long term in the reception of refugees in the region? In my documents and files from 15 years ago, I already see these fine objectives, but how do we know that something is really going to happen? Attention to care is important but also important for return. That is another point I would like to make. Take the Kosovars who are also coming towards Germany. Are they actually and urgently being worked on their return? This is also important, not only for the better reception of people who are allowed to stay here, but also to send out a clear signal to smugglers and others that if you knock on the wrong grounds in Europe, you will not have to expect reception here. That must also be achieved. Let me turn to the political process on Syria. Does the European Union actively participate in the reflection on combating the misery in Syria and stopping the exodus from Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. The European agreement on refugees is a first step towards a joint response to this humanitarian crisis. Refugees must be able to build a new life in safety. Everyone's thinking for themselves in Europe has to stop. Europe is now moving towards a joint reception of refugees. All countries must contribute to this. It remains, of course, sad that a number of European countries have voted against this agreement. Slovakia, in particular, seems to be the most pronounced in its opposition. Can the cabinet indicate what role this resistance will play at the EU summit this evening? Of course, the agreement on redistributing is an important but only first step. Can the cabinet say anything about the further process and in particular about the creation of the so-called hot spots from which refugees can be redistributed? Do the European Commission and the Cabinet still have an eye for the protection of human rights, especially children, from these hot spots? In addition to long-term steps, substantial investment is needed in the reception of conflict areas in neighbouring countries. Refugees remain different with all the risks that cross the Mediterranean. You have to cross that sea when there is not enough care, there is no education and if you have no money to buy food for your children. I therefore believe that, following the example of the Netherlands, European countries should make more money available to improve reception in neighbouring countries. My question is: will the Prime Minister make this appeal at the European Summit this evening? A long-term perspective is also needed in our own country. Many Dutch people are working together to offer refugees a safe life. All kinds of beautiful initiatives, from gathering clothes to providing shelter, have started over the last few months. In order to stimulate this sense of community, I will be proposing in the second term that the purchase of services and goods by reception centres should take place in their own region or in their own surroundings, so that you take away the bread from the local bakery, and the security guard lives in their own city or district. There's another side, too, because there are concerns. There are Dutch people who are worried about the care. Will it remain affordable with the arrival of the refugees? They are concerned about whether they can still get a house and whether there is still work if other people want to work. These are concerns that sometimes turn into fear or hatred. There's no point in rationalising those concerns. Seriously take and tackle; that is absolutely necessary. As far as I am concerned, continuing to work on the acceptance and integration of new Dutch people, the refugees, is therefore a top priority for the cabinet. In doing so, we must not create the illusion that all refugees are highly educated or can start their own business. Some people are illiterate. If we do not intervene, some people with welfare benefits will end up in the bank. We must avoid this by focusing on learning, training, work, integration, speaking the Dutch language and all that is needed. I'm rounding up. As I said, this is a first step in the short term. Many more steps will have to be taken. Everyone's thinking for themselves in Europe now seems to stop, and it comes to mind that we can only do this together, to welcome refugees in a responsible way and to give them a chance of a safe life. That gives a little hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u54	With all due respect. I've heard a lot of things that are hardly serious to take. Mrs Kuik announces a motion because she wants azc's to buy sandwiches for all asylum seekers from the local bakery. Is this really the biggest problem, I ask the PvdA Group? We're in a crisis that's unprecedented. We're being flooded by thousands of asylum seekers. The Dutch are the victims of this and are being forced on everywhere azc's. They can't have a rental house anymore. The only thing the PvdA group comes up with is: COA, buy the sandwiches from the local bakery. Really, Mr President, the question is not a bad one, but do we really have to take this seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u55	I leave no doubt that it is meant as Mr Fritsma says. He's ridiculing the proposal. My appeal is: let us do everything we can to ensure that there is support over the coming weeks, months and years. Then we have to do a lot of things in the field of integration. It's about work, about training and about staying in conversation with people. Then it also helps if you provide a certain degree of community spirit. This is a small example of something that can contribute to this. This evening, of course, will not be about that, because it will be about the long-term future that I was talking about. Then we are talking about how we are going to further shape the European asylum system and how the hotspots are getting a place. However, we also have to work in our own country. My final remark: the PVV feels a bit the monopolist when it comes to expressing the concerns of a lot of Dutch people, but that is not the case. We also see these concerns, but we are proposing solutions to them, rather than merely inciting fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u56	Before I give the floor to Mr Voordewind, I would like to say to the Acts that you do not have to use all the words you use in the streets in Parliament. It's okay, according to the Constitution, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u57	I have heard very well that Mrs Kuik calls on the cabinet to encourage other Member States in Europe to make their contributions to reception in the region tonight. That is good, and I await the Prime Minister's response. I have a question about the hotspots at the external borders of Europe: Greece, Italy and possibly Hungary. It is said that we must work towards this slowly. Does the PvdA agree with the Christian Union that we should not wait too long and organise an acceleration of the process in order to achieve a proper distribution? By spreading refugees all over Europe, we can cut off smugglers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u58	Yes. The Christian Union, together with the PvdA, has been advocating this for some time now. The answer to that is: sure, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mrs Kuik spoke about the importance of investing in care in the region. In her speech I missed the point of permanent distribution. I also missed her view on the resettlement of children and people who are old or ill. How's the PvdA in there? On this point, we also need decisions to be taken this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u60	GroenLinks is now asking for a more permanent arrangement. In fact, that question is equal to the question that Mr Voordewind asked me: how do we move from a temporary redistribution of refugees to a more permanent arrangement with hotspots? I am very much in favour of that. Resettlement is also part of the European plan. We have already indicated that we are in favour of a great deal of relocating and applying for asylum in countries of origin. This will prevent people from feeling the need to cross the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u61	Juncker's plan suggests that 20,000 people can resettle. Does the PvdA say that should happen, that the cabinet should embrace that plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u62	This is part of the European plan. It's about the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u63	Madam President. I read out: 'In this context, the Cabinet is committed to an integrated and comprehensive approach that is sufficiently country-specific and regionally structured and is developed in close consultation and partnership with the countries concerned themselves'. Wow, now it's gonna be all right; we can go home, the problem's solved. The Prime Minister said: anyone who makes comments on the admission of large groups of refugees is not a racist. That's how he reassured us. The fact that this is news in itself marks the time characterized by polarization. On the one hand, we have Mr Wilders, who sometimes in an unpleasant but always clear way kicks on the brakes, for a few times carefully supported, I would almost say anxiously supported by the VVD. On the other hand, we can see that a large part of the Chamber relies on humanity and is therefore not too critical of refugee policy. 50PLUS has a different vision. It is real to protest against a situation in which everyone who enters our country is taken care of immediately, while there are Dutch people, as I hear in my constituency who are particularly difficult with regard to their own bed, bath and bread. Something's not right. However much we want to help those in need, there are literally and figuratively limits to what the Netherlands can do, socially, socially and financially. The budget has not been calculated on these figures at all either. The newly concluded agreement concerns more than 7 000 people, there was already a voluntary agreement earlier, and we have not yet talked about the refugees who have entered our country outside. Can the cabinet give an overall picture of these numbers? In this morning's letter we read that the decision taken offers the Member States the possibility of a temporary suspension. What does the government mean by 'temporary', under what conditions does this happen, what are the legitimate reasons behind it and what does this mean for the possible sanctioning of those Member States which do not comply with the agreements? The shirt is closer than the skirt. We cannot sell the Dutch people that they have to turn their backs on strangers, from whom we are far from all knowing why they have fled here and what they want. Should there be any longer waiting for that social housing? Free healthcare for refugees is fine, but there are also people, as this week turned out, who avoid care because they can't afford it. Europe needs to focus on strong external borders. For Europe, as the President of the Refugee Dome VON, former Secretary of State Dzsingisz Gabor said in Trouw this morning, "As long as there is no very strict border control along the EU's borders, it is pointless to talk about the distribution of asylum seekers. Focusing on strong external borders is necessary both for the well-being of our own people and for the refugees." 50PLUS states that it is more humane to put a stop to this now, so that we can continue to offer asylum to poignant cases in the future. We then advocate a tough approach to smugglers of human beings, temporary asylum status for refugees and reception in the region: strict but fair, humane but realistic. Let us not forget that Europe is bigger than the EU. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this is a matter for the continent of Europe. Of the countries that are outside the EU, about twenty may be, no one should expect a proportionate contribution. How does the government see the role of the UN and how does it assess this morning's report in the Volkskrant that the Netherlands is contributing significantly to the UN, but that other Member States are failing in that? Is the government going to make a greater contribution to these Member States, just as we will: strict but just, humane but realistic, a beautiful combination of heads and hearts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr. Chairman. If prosperity isn't brought, she'll be made. That has been heard a lot, but not always true and certainly not for all current refugees. There is clearly no room for all of us here, and perhaps they do not want that either. However, we must work to promote security and prosperity in that region. This includes shelter in the region, which has been advocated for many years. It also includes an assessment of applications there, including to prevent all kinds of unnecessary, undesirable and sometimes even dangerous journeys. What can be achieved in the near future? Therefore, support for the cabinet's commitment to this and compliments for the result achieved in Europe. After this distribution of 120,000, it goes on. How? Is the cabinet perhaps drawing a line somewhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u65	The cabinet would like a moment's consultation for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions were asked about yesterday's decision. In my opinion, the fact that there is a decision is widely appreciated, but it has been asked whether the content can be clarified. What exactly does this mean? Yesterday it was decided to redistribute 120,000 people. This is on top of the 40,000 previously agreed. It's about people who are coming. That requires registration. The package therefore states that Italy and Greece must have the registration in order and that it is monitored permanently so that you can watch if you doubt it. It also provides for a mechanism for the Commission to stop the process if registration in Italy or Greece is not good enough. That is what is provided for. There was once a quota for Hungary, but that country said: if Italy and Greece register properly, the inflow should fall with us, so we should not have to relocate. Hungary has therefore given up on this. It has been decided that that quota of 54 000 is, in principle, reserved for Italy and Greece, unless another country, due to changed circumstances, is in a situation in which it is more entitled to do so. Then the conversation about that will be opened. That discussion actually shows that yesterday, too, the realization that it is not, was widely shared. This simply had to be in this form, but the realization is that there has to be a more permanent system. Relocation could one day take place from a large number of countries. For various reasons, they could be eligible for this. It is therefore very obvious to achieve a fair distribution of the entire influx across all European countries, as the Netherlands also wants. It would therefore no longer make sense to travel once in Europe via a smuggler or otherwise himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u67	On page 6 of the report, according to Frontex, Greece received 137 000 irregular migrants. That happened in two months, July and August. Now, within a year or maybe two years, Greece is allowed to transfer 50,000 migrants to other European countries, while the influx is only increasing in September. Then, of course, Hungary simply has a point by saying that some of those people are going through. Have binding agreements been reached on how to prevent migrants from moving on? How's that gonna stop? Or do we get a new letter in a week with a new redistribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u68	Hungary just made another point. Hungary said that this flow should be reduced. That is why, of course, it is also an appropriate point for us to keep an eye on the proper registration process. Once you're registered, you'll fall under the system and you'll be assigned a place of employment based on relocation. That's where you're gonna have to stay. It is, of course, intended to stop or limit illegal transit, as long as these people enter those hotspots.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u69	It is clear to me that this is the intention, just as it was intended to close the borders, but we can see from the assembly line that this is not happening. So, is it happening from tomorrow or are we going to continue to see this very big move through the Balkans? Does the Secretary of State consider the number of 120,000 sufficient, given the number of people still arriving in Greece and Italy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u70	That's kind of the dilemma. If I say that it is meant to be, it is felt that it is not strong enough, but if I were to say that it is happening here, I would rightly be blamed for not being able to predict it. I have also said that this measure is not enough to achieve redistribution within Europe and to tackle the common problem facing all Member States. To what we agreed yesterday, we chewed for far too long. It's finally through, but we're already approaching the point where we need to come up with a permanent system. The Netherlands then says: divide everything, because each country has its own specific problems. Nor is it enough just to look at redistribution. That is why it was also stressed last week that it should also be a matter of strengthening border surveillance, return and more contributions to reception in the region. There was a faster consensus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u71	On this point, these hotspots, the Council has said a few things. The cabinet has positioned this in its letter in the medium term. Is the Secretary of State also convinced, now that the first redistribution has been decided, that hotspots should be given the first priority, if we are to avoid this flow of refugees in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u72	The government's medium-term perspective is that reception in the region is so good that people can only come here through resettlement and be declared inadmissible if they choose another route. The hotspots are not covered by that deadline. This is about these weeks. The hotspots could have been operational as far as the Netherlands is concerned. It is perhaps not incomprehensible that Italy has recently thought: first we want to see the agreements on the 120,000. In Greece in particular, the European Union must build up that capacity there. Without hotspots, you can't redistribute. So it is in everyone's interest to do so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u73	Then the question is whether Europe is going to pull out enough capacity for that. In order to be able to make the selection at the gate, we probably need to delegate IND staff to the hotspots Greece, Italy and possibly Hungary. Is it now on the agenda to strengthen those countries, for example Greece, which we cannot send back to because the reception is not in order, in the coming weeks, so firmly that we are actually able to receive and select from them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u74	The EASO has the lead in that. If that were to appeal to us, we would look favourably at it. It is not the case that we, as Member States, now all have to mix up people who are in each other's way again. The Commission clearly stressed yesterday in the meeting that it is very keen to get it off the ground in Italy in particular as soon as possible now that this decision has been taken. Greece is a little more complex. At the meeting around 40,000 also the hotspots and the registration were attached. We noticed that it was less easy as long as no decision had been taken on the 120,000. That is the case now, so there is all the hope, as the Commission also said, that this is going to be done quickly. However, it is not ready, so we cannot start redistributing yet. They asked if the fine was removed from yesterday's decision. On the one hand it was called a fine if you do not participate and on the other hand it was called a buy-back option not to participate. No matter how you interpret it, that fine is out. The Netherlands did not consider this desirable either. The division of responsibility means you take responsibility. That's not one-sidedly voluntary buy-off. There is, however, an exception in the event that a country is in trouble when it comes to the influx itself: it can then be temporarily suspended. But even then we have to agree on that and we can't say: boy, it's not a good time. So that buy-back option is out. Mrs Voortman asked how we should see the resettlement. The cabinet is not looking at the resettlement in isolation. However, in view of the efforts of the Netherlands, it would be good if we were to appeal to other European Member States that do not deliver. The cabinet considers what was decided on a European scale in July to be an encouraging step. Not every country did its part there. So there's still something to win. When it comes to doing more for the Netherlands, this is very much in line with the medium-term perspective on reception in the region. Resettlement is considered a main route and a different route is no longer followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u75	You can have a medium term and a long term, but you also have to deal with the situation now. At the moment there are vulnerable people who live there under bad conditions. If you want to take short-term steps, isn't the fastest thing you can do that you're more committed to resettlement than you are now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u76	That is true in the European context. We decided to do that in July. That part of the file went easier than relocation. The Netherlands has also put its pledge in it according to the numbers we are doing now. We are pleased that we have all been able to make that decision. For now, that's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u77	In these camps there are still children, the elderly, the sick and other vulnerable people. We're just gonna let them sit? That can't be the case, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u78	There is also a great deal of concern to us that the conditions there are improving for the people. We have a resettlement programme. Resettlement can therefore be claimed in the coming period. All European countries have said something about this. The Netherlands has also promised numbers and we keep that promise. In addition, conditions in the region need to be improved. The question by Mrs Voortman and Mr Voordewind on a constructive commitment to the structural relocation mechanism. Others have also asked: what now? I agree with everyone that it is not a pleasant scenario that we have to do this every three months. Even as a participant in such a meeting, it is a great pleasure that I do not have to do the same dance every three months and put a lot of energy into a mutual problem that takes all the energy and attention away from the real solution of the common problem. I therefore argued yesterday that we do not think: this was such a difficult process, it would be good if we did not see each other for a while. No, this was so difficult but we managed to do it; let us now go through with it. The European Commission is proposing a permanent emergency mechanism. We are always saying that a European asylum system would be the very best, because it would also discourage self-traveling within Europe or at least make it pay off. Moreover, there is not always a discussion about which country is most in need of relocation. Suppose Germany had raised its finger yesterday; then all the tables shift again. It is better to assume that there is an influx in Europe that is permanently distributed among the Member States. That is what we are trying to do, and we would prefer it, and this is what we are always bringing to the Commission. Mrs Gesthuizen spoke about the other side of the spectrum: the housing of people who are licensed. I agree with everyone who says that there should be no competition between people eligible for housing and that people who are now on a waiting list should not be allowed to see their waiting time because we have to house so many licence holders. The marketing authorisation holders have also been waiting for some time. They are longer in an asylum-seekers' centre than were foreseen in the agreements with the municipalities. I fully understand those municipalities that are asking for other solutions in order to provide for this. Last week we discussed this with Mr Blok, Mr VNG, Mr IPO and Mr Aedes. We are continuing this at a rapid pace to ensure that people who are granted temporary residence status can start their lives in a municipality. They will no longer have to stay in an asylum-seekers' centre where other people will have to be placed. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the Dublin claims in Hungary. He put forward the assumption that Germany is not doing this. Germany is currently pursuing a different policy for the Syrians group; it is its priority to give them a status quickly. However, on the basis of Dublin, Germany also makes claims against Hungary and it also extradits other nationalities. The Netherlands is doing this too. We also make claims on Hungary, and we continue to do so. We see no reason to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u79	I mentioned Germany and Austria in my speech. Perhaps more importantly, the question is whether the Secretary of State considers that Hungary is providing asylum seekers with the protection they could enjoy under treaty law. In other words, does Hungary do what it has to do? I think you can seriously question that. Asylum applications are not dealt with, children and parents are separated and people are sprayed with tear gas upon entering the border. Does the Secretary of State consider that Hungary currently offers the right to protection to asylum seekers entering that country?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u80	I often see images from Hungary calling into question me. I have answered the questions that I have raised, and then I come to the conclusion that it is still justified to bring people back under Dublin. The example given by Mr Sjoerdsma of not examining an asylum application is not the case if we make a Dublin claim. He also talked about Hungary's behaviour at the border. Hungary fulfils the Treaty obligation to monitor the external border. It must do this properly and the European Commission must ensure that it does so. However, that is different from the question of whether people who are seeking asylum are still being treated responsibly in Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u81	However, for the sake of clarity, it is not just about the images of people at the border. Those are, of course, the images that are media-genic and that can get into the news. The images of people applying for asylum and the images of how they are then treated in Hungary often fail to reach the news. Is the Secretary of State really convinced that asylum seekers with a Dublin claim that we are sending back from the Netherlands to Hungary will receive the protection they should enjoy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yeah, I am right now. This is not the same as saying that the conditions there are the same as in the Netherlands, although because of the high influx we now offer shelter at a different level than we did at the beginning of the year. The Dublin agreements are that each country must meet the minimum requirements. The Commission must ensure that this remains so as long as the claims are made. On the contrary, it is not intended that countries should be cynically benefiting from the deterioration of conditions, as other countries do not make Dublin claims anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mrs Gesthuizen on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u84	Everything's fine, but of course we know the footage. We have seen, for example, how appallingly poor are the detention conditions and other shelters in Hungary where refugees now end up. I share with the Secretary of State that it should not almost be an invitation, such as 'badder but, then, you will no longer get Dublin claims'. I do wonder what the Netherlands has done both bilaterally and at EU level to ensure that this gross violation of human rights in Hungary stops as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u85	Let me put it this way. In the European context, Hungary often has a strong focus on everyone. Through the Commission, but also through consultations we conduct, it is pointed out that they must comply with the conventions and laws and that they must comply with the minimum standards of care. That is what we are being called upon to do. If this falls below the mark, as is the case in Greece, and if it is no longer allowed, it becomes a different story. That is not the issue at the moment, however.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u86	I don't understand. If you detain far too many children, women and men in one cell, I believe that there is a serious violation of human rights. I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u88	I expect him to make more efforts in this area. What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u89	Let me be clear: I am not going to invade Hungary and tell you how to do it. We'll talk to people in the process. What you see most of all are the scenes at the border of Hungary. You see how people deal with people who cross the border illegally and how they secure those people. We are keeping our finger on the pulse in this situation. As long as it is justified to make Dublin claims, so do we. I think it is a better way to ensure, at European level, that each country adheres to minimum standards of care. Ensure that this is done properly and that the processes, including border control, are conducted properly. If we think that a country should do better, do not say unilaterally that you will immediately stop making Dublin claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u90	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr Omtzig asked whether there would be an inter-group procedure for the Netherlands in the field of asylum policy. I don't know now. We don't know that. We haven't been notified. I welcome the fact that the Commission is monitoring Member States closely on this dossier as well. I said something like that before when I asked about Hungary. I would, of course, prefer to hear that everything is good here, but if the Commission finds that there is room for improvement and that there are incentives for improvement, it is up to it to let us know. We shall then respond to that. Mr Azmani had a question about the sounds we often hear about people with evil intentions who could also be in the refugee flows. You can see in the annual images of our services that that is imaginable. You can't rule out the fact that someone with evil intentions and motives is in that stream and that he comes in that way. It's not the way to get in, or perhaps the most obvious way, but as long as that's a possibility, you have to pay attention. That's why we invested in it. We have trained our employees to ask the right questions and to look at signals that can give them reason to notify those people of the services that have even more sense of that. That's what we're doing. The knowledge and expertise of the NCTV can be invoked. We keep and promote our reporting structure for signals of involvement in radicalisation, terrorism and jihadism. In such a case, an information message shall be prepared and transmitted, and it shall be examined whether that is sufficient. So one is aware of the possibility, is alert to those signals and also transmits them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u92	Of course, I very much agree that you should be alert and that you can never rule anything out. However, the Danish AIVD has today noted that he does not see that risk as such. In my view, this raises the question of how much European cooperation is being carried out by the various AIVDs in order to get a comparable picture and to be able to expose nonsense, for example, on the basis of old images that have nothing to do with the current refugee flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u93	That something is imaginable is something other than the idea that something happens every day. At European level there is contact about this. The services are in close contact. You can imagine that these kinds of subjects were also exchanged at ministerial level yesterday and that there was an immediate assessment of whether anyone had a signal. From the Danes now comes the signal that they do not regard that opportunity as so great. The Danes also deal with influx in a different way: people mainly go to Sweden, or not. They do ask that question, but nobody says he wants asylum. So they might have a slightly different view of that. I did not say that we have the idea that this is happening in large numbers every day, but it is imaginable, and since you cannot rule it out, we must be alert and therefore exchange these signals with the other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u94	Of course, I agree with the attitude of the cabinet on this issue, but at the same time I think it is advisable to increase the various AIVDs of the various Member States as much as possible, also in a communicative sense, precisely in order to avoid confusion or confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u95	I very much agree with that. That cooperation is there. This sometimes still leads to different assessments, but of course that cannot always be ruled out. But I very much agree that we have an interest in ensuring that this is done clearly and that that information is exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u96	Indeed, this exchange of information is very important. But I would also like to draw attention to another aspect: the communication to the municipalities, to residents with whom there is an azc, with whom there are concerns. Those people are wondering what's going on, whether they should be worried that there might be some of those wrong guys in there. I note that local authorities do not always react in an even way, so to speak. Can the Secretary of State not be supportive in this respect, so that there can be a more authoritative answer to these understandable questions about safety and risks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u97	Of course, we're already doing that through COA. That is always available and always answers questions, such as on conversational evenings. I can very well imagine that concern. Normally, I'd say, if that came close to me, I'd have those concerns, too. But in my case, I had them, too, when one of them came close to me. Something just changes. There will be a lot of people that you don't know, from countries that you may not know. There's always been a lot of stories going around. People often feel like they're being robbed. I understand that, too. No matter how the process is organized, one time it goes more elegant than the other time; I'm not going to say that this is always going to go well. There's always a moment when you hear about it for the first time, that it becomes concrete and that you realize: it's really near me. That first time is a heist, even though it is very neat according to the plan in the invitation of the municipality for an interview evening or residents evening. We are contributing by not reasoning these concerns, and we cannot do so by indicating what we are doing about them. We indicate that there are indeed incidents in asylum-seekers' centres, but they usually occur among themselves. There are a lot of people together and that leads to tension. They are often also people who have moved forward, who still miss their family and like to see the family follow them as soon as possible. Sometimes it takes longer than people had hoped. That leads to tension. We also explain that we provide security personnel in the asylum-seekers' centre, which is usually recruited in the neighbourhood. We explain that we are doing our best to manage it, but it is not excluded that things are happening, as things are happening in the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u98	I have a question on this point. I think it's good to consider it a risk. That doesn't mean it's actually happening. If a refugee is being interviewed and in the media itself indicates that he has seen these guests on the run to Europe, I think we should be vigilant. In reply to the Secretary of State, I can see that this vigilance is at the service's disposal, also by the hearing that is being taken away. That's what I'm relying on. Will the Secretary of State and his colleague, the Minister for Security and Justice, also look at the integrated approach to jihadism on this subject? This issue has not yet been so pregnantly mentioned, also because we have only recently been faced with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u99	We take all the signals very seriously. For the sake of clarity, this also applies to those who are sitting in front of us who do not feel that they pose a risk as a result of their flight story. I take Mr Azmani's suggestion to the department to see if we can make it clearer that this is part of the integrated approach. It is simply part of the integrated approach to be attentive to this. Finally, Mrs Kikkie asked if the COA is purchasing locally. I welcome Mrs Kuik's suggestion, because I share the idea that if an asylum seekers' centre is to be set up, we should involve the neighbourhood as much as possible, not only for the local support but also for the logic. The neighbourhood should not only be involved by the volunteers who always sign up or by the conversational evenings in advance, but also by involving the local middle class in the purchase. I have already mentioned the recruitment of security personnel or other personnel as needed, but we must do so as far as possible in the region. I'm also willing to see how things can be a little sharper. My experience is that you run into procurement rules at some point. Then we can't do more than we already do. It shouldn't be four times as expensive. To give you an example, in emergency care you often see that everything from the outdoor sports shops in the region is involved, because next to a hall there must also be beds, air beds and sleeping bags. I intend to continue to discuss with the COA the way in which we can maintain that bond after the emergency shelter, if it becomes more structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u100	One of the reasons why asylum seekers come to the Netherlands massively is because this Secretary of State is pampering them in every possible way. We have talked many times about the unimaginable priority position in the housing market of asylum seekers, but there are many more things. Take healthcare: it is free and for nothing for all asylum seekers. This is not just about basic care, but also about the health care that is unattainable for many Dutch people, because they cannot afford it and need to be insured for it. For example, the dentist is also free for asylum seekers. When will this Secretary of State finally put the knife in all these luxury facilities? This does not depend on the fact that the borders must, of course, be closed, but what does the Secretary of State do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u101	We provide sober and humane shelter. There are indeed nurses present in those halls where hundreds of people sleep and where every eight beds stand in between. Mr Fritsma may call that luxury. I'm also thinking of the pavilion tents we build in Nijmegen where 3,000 people lie together. You can always think it should be more sober. However, there is a lower limit in this type of provision. I don't feel like I'm decorating luxury hotels. We adhere to the rules of amenities and care. Basic care is provided. It doesn't have all kinds of extra packages in it. There are now 12,000 people in an asylum-seekers' centre waiting for a home. I do not think they should always have a priority position. That is why I am working with the municipalities to see how we can get these people into a regular system as soon as possible, so that they are equal to other Dutch people as soon as possible. Maybe in the first phase they even end up in a living space that is less, in which they share amenities. Then they are quickly in a municipality, but cannot necessarily claim their own social housing. We're in the process of putting those austerities in place. We look at the most practical way of accommodating people who are allowed to stay in a municipality for a while. We are also looking at how we can give them the opportunity to become useful to society as soon as possible. For example, we need not only to talk about what we are offering them, but also about what they are doing in order to do something in return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u102	Does the Secretary of State deny that asylum seekers have free access to all health care, including the health care that Dutch people need to be insured for, such as the dentist? He can't deny that, because this is the situation. Asylum seekers do indeed have free access to all healthcare, including the care that many Dutch people have long been unreachable. The Secretary of State simply places asylum seekers in front of ordinary Dutch people. Do you find it strange that people smugglers tell asylum seekers to go to the Netherlands? Does he think that's crazy? There is free healthcare, also the care that Dutch people cannot afford. There are free rentals, everything for free, and he's standing here talking like none of this is playing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u103	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u104	In conclusion, I will conclude my interruption. The way in which the Secretary of State is speaking now proves that the foreign policy in this cabinet and with him is in very bad hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u105	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u106	In my view, Mr Fritsma did not need my words for that conclusion because he has already drawn them himself for a long time. He's asking the question too general. It is easy for me to say that it is not where he claims that there is free access to all forms of healthcare. We have a package for that. I have already said that as soon as they get a status, people must get out of the special situation that is at first in an asylum-seekers' centre as soon as possible. They need to be as quick as possible in regimes that are similar or more sober than those for Dutch people who already live here. I'm working on this with municipalities. I think it should be sober. I think we should do that, and I also, in the summer, stopped reimbursements for returning certain groups to make sure that they are not a reason to come here. However, our beautiful country will always be a reason to come here, so it's not just in cutting down amenities; which, by the way, should be sober and efficient. The fact that there are medical checks and checks for asylum seekers is also in the interests of ourselves and the residents. So I'm not going to stop with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u107	Then I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u108	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to answer the question about the Dutch Presidency, in which this will undoubtedly be a major issue. We will work as President on the implementation of the European Agenda on Migration. Our Presidency role in this will clearly be important. Then there is the question from the VVD: do this cabinet and the Prime Minister want to be the driver of reception in the region, on return and in dealing with the root causes? Oh, yeah. That is, of course, also the subject of the letter of 8 September, and this is also explicitly on the agenda of the European Council this evening. The integration plan, as already promised, is intended to deal with the Social Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u109	Is the Prime Minister prepared to appeal to his colleagues for more money for UNHCR and UNICEF so that reception in the region actually gets off the ground? We can only see the budgets falling.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u110	That is not entirely true with regard to UNHCR. Relatively, it is true, but if you look at the period 2010-2014, the contribution from Europe has increased from EUR 600 million to EUR 1 billion. Relatively, it has fallen from 32% to 28% because other countries have also gone much further, but in absolute terms it has increased by 400 million in those four years. Looking more widely at the contributions from all kinds of countries to the humanitarian crisis, for example in the vicinity of Syria, the Netherlands scores high. When it comes to Syria, the Netherlands stands sixth and does about twice as much as it should do in relation to national income in relation to other countries. So I would like to make that relative remark with regard to the UNHCR. With regard to the question of whether the wider package of other countries is doing enough, the Netherlands is at the top of the list, I am very motivated with Mr Voordewind to appeal to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u111	I am not talking about the Dutch contribution either, but about the European contribution. As far as the entire UN contribution is concerned, we still see a gap of around 2.8 billion. Indeed, we can see that relatively the part of Europe is declining compared to, for example, America. So again the question of whether the Prime Minister is prepared to urge his colleagues to continue investing in reception in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u112	Yes. Sure. We all agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u113	This went very smoothly for a moment. I heard Mr Voordewind ask if the cabinet was really prepared to insist that there should be a substantial European extra contribution to closing that gap. 'Cause there's another hole now. The deficit is 4.2 billion. Minus 2.8 billion is therefore still a deficit of 1.4 billion. Is the Cabinet prepared to ensure that it is completely closed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u114	I don't know if that's gonna work. Where the Netherlands is doing much more than can be expected on account of our relative size and which we do not want to remove, I would like to appeal to other countries on their responsibility, in the sense that they too will do more. There are countries, particularly in Eastern Europe, which are doing almost nothing. The United Kingdom is doing by far the most, relatively and absolutely. Countries like Germany and France are a bit in the middle. The Netherlands is in the leading group. I am very motivated to appeal to other countries for their responsibility. However, I cannot guarantee that we will close all the gaps.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u115	Then you can have the next situation. The intention is: we make the shelter in the region so great that people don't have to come here anymore. But what if its practical implementation, in order to make sure that shelter really gets that good, doesn't come off the ground? Then you still have a gap between your finances and your plan. Actually, your plan is just not covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u116	We must first look carefully at how we can move forward step by step. We must first succeed in preventing this winter from a humanitarian crisis in the camps where people have to travel. The extra Dutch contribution is important for this and on that point you can also see great support in Europe for doing more. That's point one. In addition, a discussion on the UNHCR was held in the Volkskrant this morning. Of this, one has to say in fact that the EU has increased its contribution from 600 million to 1 billion in four years. So we are not going to be left in a dramatic way. I very much agree with the view that we should, above all, do something extra if countries are lagging behind. As far as Syria is concerned, Europe is currently the largest donor of 1.1 billion, i.e. the Commission and the Member States together. Indeed, Mrs Voortman is right, more needs to be done and we are going to work on this step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u117	It is, of course, extremely important to work on it step by step. As the previous speakers have said, the deficits are really enormous. Hundreds of thousands of refugees were unable to receive food aid in September and hundreds of thousands of children do not receive education structurally. I also asked this question in the first term: how long does the Prime Minister expect a situation to be created in countries such as Jordan and Lebanon so that, according to the Cabinet, people can safely return to it, because it is safe enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u118	It all got a little mixed up in the first term of the Chamber, I'm just saying fatherly. I'd like to tear it apart. We must first look at how to prevent people from coming to Europe in the short term because of the humanitarian situation in the host countries. This is a short-term issue which also played a major role in the General Political Reviews last week. At present, considerable sums are being made available in Europe to solve this problem. At the United Nations General Assembly there is a meeting of the largest industrialized countries to further close the gap in the UN humanitarian budgets. This is important for the shorter term. The Netherlands has also been invited and Minister Koenders of Foreign Affairs will be there. Then there is the question of the longer term. How do you ensure that in the region the shelter is such that you can return people who report here on the basis of the fact that there is a safe third place. People don't have to come in here because they can go there. That's consistent with the cabinet commitment. What is happening in Lebanon and Jordan, and what is happening in Turkey and Africa, is of course relevant. This issue is not limited to Syria and its surroundings; the cabinet ambition also extends to migration flows from Africa. Minister Koenders is in Lebanon this week. It is quite clear that there are major problems there that need to be resolved. At present, Syrian refugees account for 25% of the population of Lebanon. That is one of the reasons why the cabinet has made an extra 110 million available for humanitarian aid. Also in Brussels you notice that there is increasing support for the Dutch position. It has already been taken over in the Presidency conclusions of the Justice Council. In addition, I notice that there is now also a substantive, intrinsic motivation. In the Chamber, too, unlike last weeks, I am pleased to note that there is broad support for the cabinet effort in order to continue to be able to receive people in the region. We will continue to work on this in the European Union. I can't tell you the exact date on which that will be arranged. The cabinet has always said that this is a complex issue, that the problems in the region are complex and that this is not overnight. That's why I'm cutting off the short term and the longer term. In the short term, we must prevent people from coming here precisely because of the situation in the region. In the slightly longer term, we must ensure that the conditions in the region are such that the people from that region who come here can be returned to the region on the basis of the safe third country exit point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u119	I'd like to know what that short notice is. The Minister talks about situations where people want to escape. In Lebanon they cannot work and their children cannot go to school. They haven't had food aid for a whole month. So this has to be resolved in the short term, but does the Prime Minister expect it to be resolved in the short term? This has not been possible in the last five years. Of course we have to try, but I think that this is quite a workable matter. I have a second question. The Prime Minister says that the Netherlands has allocated extra money. This is only to be encouraged, but the question is where this extra money comes from. What year of the budget is that money being brought forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u120	We will try to answer the second question in the second term. By the way, I answered that question last week, but I no longer have the answer in mind. I have to get out of here in time, so if necessary, Secretary of State Dijkhoff will answer this question in the second term. In his first question, Mr Sjoerdsma continues to combine the short and longer term. In the shorter term, we must prevent people from being forced to come to Europe because of insufficient food and other conditions in the camps. That's a matter of the coming months, this winter. In addition, there is an ambition to ensure that the situation there, based on existing reception sites often created by UNHCR, improves in such a way that there is a longer-term perspective for people. This may not be comparable to the perspective in the Netherlands, but it must be such that, if they report to Europe on the basis of a safe third country criterion, you can say: you can be taken care of in the region. Those are really two separate cases. We need to disconnect it from each other. For the short term, it is important to prevent people from being extra motivated by the situation there to come to Europe. For the slightly longer term, you need to improve the facilities there so that people can stay there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u121	It is indeed wise to disconnect it. We talk very often in Europe about reception in the region. The Prime Minister has just made a very explicit undertaking that he will raise an additional financial contribution from Europe at the European Summit this evening in relation to the urgent situation in Lebanon and Jordan. I wonder how that works exactly. Then he says to his Hungarian counterpart, "Hey, there's got to be a little more money in it"? Or is it just like the distribution of asylum seekers through a more compelling call? Or is it noncommittal and is it just said: let's do it together?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u122	I am not very gloomy at this point. I would remind you of the Samsom doctrine, Mr Samsom's statement during the debate on the cabinet commitment, that the problem is more likely to be the distribution of the 120,000. He predicted that regulating a good long-term perspective would be easier, so that such a good reception could be achieved sooner that you could also send people back. He was right about that. That's why I'm a little more optimistic about tonight. I have no certainty, but I can see that this vision is widely shared, even by countries such as Hungary and Slovakia. We must work together to ensure that, for the short term, we remove the cause of an almost forced reaction. We need to organise for the slightly longer term that people there have a reasonable shelter. How exactly that works in his work, I'm going to write a book about that one day. Or I'm gonna challenge journalists to do that. However, that is a little far-reaching for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u123	I'm gonna keep asking questions anyway, because my question hasn't been fully answered. We say together that care in the region is very important. There are short and long-term perspectives. One of the urgent signals from organisations is that there is a shortage of financial resources. Is the call just made by the Prime Minister for financial support from Europe to improve the situation in refugee camps compelling or urgent?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u124	I'm one of the 28. The European Council may not take decisions by qualified majority. It is not part of the European legislative process. This is reserved for the trade council in which Mr Dijkhoff sits. I'm optimistic we're gonna end up here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u125	Last week, the leader of the VVD, Mr Zijlstra, said that the border at the number of asylum seekers that we can take up was quickly reached. Where's the Prime Minister's border?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u126	I believe that we must indeed see together that we are faced with a hugely complex issue. The cabinet is trying to manage that. I am very pleased that we have ensured that the principle of a reasonable distribution across Europe is accepted. What you do not want, of course, is a certain cap on the relative contribution a country has to make. In fact, that principle was accepted yesterday. By re-establishing a reserve of 54,000, we have made an important follow-up to the government's vision that a European distribution with a European distribution key should be achieved. That key is actually there now. I therefore very much agree with Mr Zijlstra on this point. Other countries must also shoulder their responsibilities. Although yesterday's decision-making is not perfect, we have taken an important step towards the principle that each country must do its fair share and that it is unreasonable to expect them to do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u127	We are not talking about 120,000 asylum seekers, but we are talking about hundreds of thousands more. The Prime Minister knows that, too. Where's the border now? Does this mean that the Prime Minister will continue to save his coalition, or is he going to say, "This is where I stop; no more asylum seekers?'
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u128	For the cabinet, Mr Zijlstra feels that there should be a cap on the amount of people you accept in terms of your relative share of the total asylum influx. That should be the Dutch key. We are not quite there yet, but we did take a big step yesterday. For the 120,000 that key has now been accepted. On the basis of the reserve quota, that key has been given further significance. In addition to the problem of the shaky boats causing people to die, we have the problem that people in Europe are looking for the country where they want to settle. I am convinced that this is the prelude to a logical follow-up step, namely a European asylum system in which Europe indicates in which country people should eventually settle. So that puts an end to the second problem. So getting accepted that relative share in political sense is very big profit. I now have the answer to Mr Sjoerdsma's question about the 110 million and where that money comes from. That 110 million has made the cabinet extra available for shelter in the Syria region. This is covered by the raising of funds from the ODA budget, which is freely expendable as a result of the GDP growth in future years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u129	Which ODA budget, what year? That was the wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u130	Next year. We see the budget grow further. This leads to a piece not yet compulsory spending in that ODA budget. I also see a lot of official jabbering, so that's right. That's where the 110 million is financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u131	It is also a bit mixed up in the answer, as in the first term of the Chamber. So I'm going to come back to the point of reception in the region. The cabinet is very much in favour of this, like a large part of the Chamber, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u132	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u133	It can do much better, indeed. However, I am very curious to see what the Prime Minister, whom we can now also address on this asylum issue, has done in bilateral contacts or contacts in the EU with countries such as Lebanon, Turkey or Jordan. I hope that the Prime Minister agrees with me that it is of course very easy to say here in the Chamber that there should be better reception in the region and that fewer people should be there. But we have to be a little realistic that we are not entirely in charge there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u134	If I were president of America, I would say: I have directed my Foreign Secretary to go to Lebanon. Unfortunately, we have collegial authority here, or maybe that's better too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u135	Noted!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u136	Other than in the SP. In this case, let me say that the Foreign Minister and I have come to the conclusion together, by the way, on his proposal, that it was good to be in Lebanon at this stage too. I can also tell you that behind the scenes we have a lot of contact, especially within Europe at the moment. His journey to Lebanon is also relevant for the impact of our vision on the longer term outside Europe. In the end, this will also have to be a European commitment, including the European Commission, the first Vice-President, our own fellow countryman Frans Timmermans, who is very motivated to do so, but also Federica Mogherini, the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy, will play a major role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u137	I would like to invite the Prime Minister to attend a SP night next Monday. That is where the candidate party chairmen will debate each other. Then he can learn something about the internal structure of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u138	Market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u139	Let's get back to the problem we're talking about today. Of course, it is a very good thing that the Foreign Minister himself has started to examine Lebanon. I did that myself last January. It was very instructive but also poignant to see what is going on there. If we look at each other honestly, of course we know that that country has to do with a population that is a quarter of the population of foreigners. We are not even talking about the Palestinians, who have been in the Lebanese refugee camps for decades. The Lebanese government is also well aware that such a situation could also arise with the Syrians who are now in the country. Now let's just talk about Lebanon. Is it not unrealistic to expect that a country such as Lebanon, where so many people have taken refuge, will not be very happy now and in the future when people travel to the European Union? Is it not a little wishful thinking, wishful thinking, to suspect that such countries will be ready with open arms and that they will say: we will help you, Europe, to relieve you in your flow of refugees?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u140	This also applies, of course, to the need to look at this issue in the shorter and longer term. In the shorter term, Mrs Gesthuizen's analysis is compelling and I think it is correct. There are major and urgent problems. That is why we want to prevent people from accepting the trip to Europe because of humanitarian circumstances. We have just discussed this in detail, and we have also made funds available to prevent it. For the slightly longer term, it is important, starting with the existing facilities in those countries, perhaps there is a need for additional facilities to ensure that people who are taken in there have more perspective, so that ultimately the journey to Europe, including the dangerous crossing, is no longer necessary and that you can also send people back. Those are really two separate cases. Mrs. Gesthuizen says that's a complicated journey. That's exactly what the Cabinet says. Ultimately, it is logical, but also sensible and safer to accommodate people in the region. There are also differences between countries. You can put up a tree about that, too. The situation in Lebanon differs from that in Jordan and Turkey. Each of these countries is struggling with specific problems that require a specific solution, for the shorter, but also for the longer term, if you want to achieve the vision of the government, in the meantime also the European vision. I will stay with Mrs Gesthuizen, because she also asked about the approach to the root causes. That also refers to the Thieme motion. I have already said that we are working on this, but because of the Thieme motion we are going to put it on paper. Then I come to the question about Slovakia. Tonight it is not so much the intention to talk about last night's decision as it might be that my colleague from Slovakia will bring it up himself. I have always called him Fico so far, because that's how you write his name, but from Frans Timmermans, who is able to put a different emphasis on every name of a country and person, I have now understood that I have to say "Fizzo." I am not sure, but I assume that my colleague, Mr Fizzo, from Slovakia, will be bringing this up tonight. However, if decisions are taken in Europe, they must be implemented. That's the deal. Europe also has legal means of appealing to that country, as a country that refuses to do so, very penetratingly, if not compellingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u141	Can the Prime Minister clarify the terms "intrusive" or "forceful"? It seems quite clear to me that this is happening, because otherwise you will have no agreements, but what means of coercion did Europe want to use against countries which ultimately do not keep the agreement, even though they voted against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u142	That is European law. I am not an expert, but Europe has all sorts of nasty tools to force countries to implement a joint decision. If Mr Omtzigt wants to know exactly, he must look into the treaty, but there is an entire catalogue of Marshall resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u143	I'm sure Mr Omtzigt has already done that, because that's how we know him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u144	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thanks for the confidence, but an agreement is not a directive or regulation and therefore has no direct effect. It's a political decision. You cannot just go to the Court of Luxembourg to have a political decision implemented, certainly not a decision of 42 sides with some internal inconsistencies. How are European countries going to do that? It is therefore a political decision to do something against another country. Are countries gonna do that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u146	Since it is a Commission proposal, it is primarily on the Commission's way to take further decisions on it. The Commission has a lot of instruments for this, but I am less expert than Mr Omtzigt on that point. My experience, also from an earlier period in Social Affairs when we were dealing with things when things did not go well, is that the Commission has very difficult instruments for this. Finally, the question of Syria. There is a difference between whether or not you are going to extend the bombings on the Iraqi part of ISIS to the Syrian part of ISIS, the discussion on this is taking place in many countries, including the Netherlands, and the demand for the no-fly zone, but that is a big step further. We realize that, too. The international mandate for military engagement over Syria in the bombing of ISIS is an issue that concerns the right to self-defense, but when you talk about a no-fly zone, it is humanitarian intervention. Chapter VII of the UN Charter also requires the approval of Russia and China. At the moment we can hold that debate in theory, but the practice is still far away. I say this separately from the desirability of doing so, but I will not dwell on that. The Dutch cabinet is currently considering, but that is a very different discussion, whether or not the bombing of ISIS in Iraq should be extended to the Syrian part. There is a series of arguments to do so, but also a series of arguments not to do so. That's what we're weighing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u147	Every time the Prime Minister appears in this Chamber, the weekly asylum influx has increased by thousands. The simple question then arises: does the Prime Minister realize that this really cannot be done any longer? Does he realize that this huge influx must stop immediately, not in 10 years, not in 50 years, not in 100 years, but now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u148	I notice that every time I debate with Mr Fritsma it rains outside. Will he stop doing that? That's in response to the causality he assumes. Then to the content: what the cabinet is doing is, of course, to ensure that we manage the increased influx of asylum in the Netherlands. It also includes the fact that people who have no business here will be returned as soon as possible. If we can claim that people are being sent back to other countries, we will send them back to those other countries, on the basis of the Dublin agreements. It's also part of taking away the root causes. That is what this debate is about, because the European Council is very much about this tonight. It's about working towards a system where people can stay in the region. I would also like to be a member of the PVV, I think sometimes at night in an unguarded moment; a simple solution for everything. Only you can't; you can't become a member of the PVV. Apart from that, what would life be simple if you could wiggle away problems with a magic wand? But unfortunately, it's not. From its responsibility for public administration, this cabinet has a good way of analysing this issue and managing it in a sensible way. We are working very hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u149	The problem is, everything the Prime Minister says doesn't happen. Limit inflow? That's not gonna happen. Send people back? It's not gonna happen. In fact, you give them bed, bath and bread. You're removing the criminality of illegality from the table. So you are making it easy for asylum seekers. Despite the jokes about wands and so on, I conclude that this Prime Minister has absolutely no answer to the asylum crisis that is currently facing this country. He doesn't have an answer yet. Talking about it doesn't help anymore, Prime Minister. I also think fear plays a part. The Prime Minister seems to be afraid of Brussels and the PvdA. My only call is to overcome that fear for once. Lap your boot what Brussels and the Labour Party want from you and choose the Netherlands. Choose common sense. Choose to stop asylum seekers, because everyone in the Netherlands sees that this is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mr Fritsma makes the wrong analysis of my motives. For the sake of clarity, let me answer that part of his speech. As far as the content is concerned, I refer to my previous reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u151	Perhaps it is good to pay even more attention to the root cause of this debate, namely the conflict in Syria. We know that there is a reflection on the joint fight against ISIS. I also ask the Prime Minister to pay attention to the position of Assad. When I speak to refugees a few days ago, I did so, and their question of why they fled, they often call the barrel bombings of the Assad regime in the first place. What will be the Prime Minister's commitment tonight? What's he gonna call his colleagues to? The Americans and the Russians are now talking about some kind of summit meeting. Are Europeans going to take part in this? How can we do an apple together, perhaps on Russia, to stop those barrel bombs from Assad?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u152	This is one of the issues that is also addressed in the Foreign Affairs Council. I can tell Mr Voordewind that the whole issue of Syria is being discussed jointly by Europe. Next week, the Syria issue will also be discussed in the margins of the UN General Assembly and perhaps also in the more official sessions. The suggestion of a no-fly zone has been mentioned, but there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it. I fully agree with Mr Voordewind that what is happening is really terrible. I also agree with him that there are many refugees who are calling this a cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u153	I gave the no-fly zone as a suggestion. I know there's a lot of hooks and eyes on it. I had the discussion at the time when it was about Iraq. However, we continue to argue and argue, but in the meantime these barrel bombs continue. I agree that we must fight ISIS, but we cannot fight ISIS alone, while those barrel bombs continue. That is why my suggestion is: explore the possibilities. In Iraq, the establishment of a no-fly zone without a mandate from the UN Security Council took place, but we saved a lot of lives at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u154	Once again, I very much agree with Mr Voordewind on the terrible point of those bombs. At the same time, we must take account of the enormous complexity with regard to Syria. This applies both to combating the regime of Assad on this terrible instrument and to any decision to bomb the Syrian part of ISIS. We must then ask ourselves what it means for the conflict on the western side of Syria, between Assad and the opposition. Because you work there in one system. At the same time, we must ask ourselves what the consequences of bombing on the Syrian side of ISIS would be in terms of what happens to those camps and locations if ISIS were to leave them; then who will get in? How do we prevent them from filling with other 'pusj', if I may say so flat? At the same time, there is a convincing argument to do so. That is precisely the balance that we must make as a cabinet. We know that there is a supply from the Syrian side of ISIS to the Iraqi side of ISIS. If there is less bombardment, it is also logical to feel safer and freer there to take wrong actions. Those are the considerations we stand for as a cabinet. We are trying to make it in a sensible way and we will report to the Chamber on its outcome. However, it is a complex issue. I always have great respect for all those who quickly come to the conclusion that the Syrian side of ISIS must also be bombed, but the cabinet really wants to look at these issues in conjunction and come to the Chamber with a weighted answer. So much for the response to the question of whether there should be bombing on the Syrian side of ISIS, yes or no. Once again, that is really a balance-sheet issue on which we are trying to make a sensible decision. We agree on those barrel bombs, but we do not have one-two-three answers. I have to be honest about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u155	The Prime Minister refers to the Foreign Affairs Council where the issue of Syria is on the agenda and to the UN General Assembly where it is discussed and margin or still a little more in plenary. This war has been going on for four years. More than 200,000 people have died. Half the population no longer lives in the house where they lived at the beginning of the war. If then the sound is "we're going to talk a margin about it" or "it's on the agenda," then there's one time the urgency to solve the problem at the root so that there won't be 10 million people coming because they really can't live in Syria anymore. What are the plans of the EU, America, Iran and Saudi Arabia, which are all sending weapons and influencing parties, to end this proxy war with all of them? Or do we leave the crane open and are we just mopping up the consequences, for which the people of Syria are paying the highest price?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u156	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan verwijzen naar mijn vorige antwoord.]] Mr Omtzigt does not have to convince me, and I do not think anyone here is convinced of the seriousness of the crisis in Syria and the terrible humanitarian consequences of the struggle that is taking place in various places. I did draw attention to the very complex picture in Syria. I did that last week in the General Reviews. That is why I have great respect for those who come to the conclusion very quickly: we are going to bomb there. Perhaps the cabinet comes to that conclusion, perhaps not, but it is really a very complicated issue. Much more involved than in some other conflicts in the Middle East. Therefore, you have every time to wonder what the consequences of an action are for other parts of the conflict. I would just like to mention the issue of bombing the Syrian part of ISIS. Again, there are very convincing arguments to do so. However, you have to answer the question: what does a large involvement of Western countries in the bombing of ISIS in Syria mean for the conflict between the President and the opposition? What does it mean for the future of the camps you're bombing? How do you prevent even worse organizations from using it? We're very focused on ISIS right now, but no one knew that organization two years ago. There are very other organisations operating in the region that are at least as cruel, and perhaps even worse. That is why we need to map out these consequences. For this reason, the cabinet is not being rushed into a decision, but really wants to look at it very quietly, in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u157	I understand all the trouble there is to get out of here. But something else just happened. Soon the Heads of State or Government, including our Prime Minister Rutte, will be talking about Syria and talking about the refugees throughout the summit. However, the cause of the problem, the conflict in Syria, is being transferred to a rather less important Council, namely the Council of Foreign Ministers. Will the Prime Minister ensure that international negotiations are given top priority and also discussed at the European Summit this afternoon? Perhaps these international negotiations should take place behind closed doors in backrooms at the UN; I sincerely hope so. If that conflict in Syria is not stopped, or if at least a number of local peace agreements are not concluded, then we will have to debate the issue of refugees on a weekly basis and perhaps we will even have to debate it on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u158	I agree with Mr Omtzigt from a point of view. There is no contradiction between his words and mine. In his previous speeches, however, I thought I saw the urgency of reaching conclusions quickly. I would like to warn against the idea that we can resolve the issue of Syria quickly and unequivocally. For that, you should own the same magic wand as the PVV owns. Unfortunately, that wand isn't here. In his second speech, Mr Omtzigt made it clear that he too was aware of this. We're gonna hang out in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u159	This brought an end to the government's first term of office. We're moving fast on to the second term. Each spokesperson shall have a minute's speaking time. In that minute the motions must also be read out. I hope that the Prime Minister will have time to respond to these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u160	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Netherlands will shortly be required to establish a new contribution for the next four years to the UNHCR resettlement programme for the most vulnerable refugees;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands can and must provide more relocations in the light of current conflict situations in the world;]] [[calls on the Government to achieve a significant increase in the Dutch contribution when establishing a new contribution to the UNHCR resettlement programme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to UNHCR alone this year there is a funding gap of 4.2 billion for the reception of refugees in countries around Syria;]] [[Considers that investing heavily in reception in the region is crucial to improve the situation in the camps in the region so that people feel less need to flee to Europe;]] [[calls on the government, at the forthcoming European Summit, to promote a significant additional contribution from the European Union to the reception of refugees in, among other things. Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and Egypt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-323]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voortman, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-324]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u161	Yes. I'm filing my third and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the JHA Council has agreed on a temporary distribution key for refugees within Europe;]] [[Whereas a permanent distribution system is necessary in order to avoid similar overloads of border countries in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to work at the European Summit to create a basis for the establishment of a permanent system of distribution of refugees between Europe and the harmonisation of European asylum policy;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Voordewind and Mr Sjoerdsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-325]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u162	I have a question about Mrs Voortman's second motion. If I understand correctly, it calls on the government and the Prime Minister to draw the attention of the Member States to the need for more funding for reception in the region. In the interrupting debate between Mrs Voortman and the Prime Minister, the latter has already agreed to do so, hasn't it? So why is Mrs Voortman still tabling this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u163	In the motion, I really ask for a contribution from the European Union. This is therefore a joint contribution. I am not concerned, therefore, with the fact that each country is making its own contribution, but I am concerned about making a very large joint contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u164	Thank you. I call Mr Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet today says that it welcomes the redistribution of asylum seekers, which was signed yesterday. Can you imagine? More than 4,000 asylum seekers are coming to the Netherlands every week and the cabinet is pleased to see a further 7,000 asylum seekers on top of that weekly influx. This is unbelievable. The cabinet keeps saying the wrong things, too. Last week the Prime Minister said in the General Reviews: no matter what happens, there will always be payment for the reception of asylum seekers, there will never be a financial barrier. A blank cheque for asylum seekers. Gold for the elderly. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Prime Minister not to travel to senseless EU meetings, but instead to put things in order in his own country by closing the borders and not allowing any asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-326]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u166	Mr. Chairman. Support from the Christian Union Group for the appeal to the Prime Minister to raise funds for reception in the region. We shall therefore wholeheartedly support these motions. I really hope that the Prime Minister will not pass on the main cause of people's flight to the Foreign Affairs Council, but will raise the issue this evening. Europe really needs to come up with an action plan to find a solution together with the Russians, the Americans, Iran and other players. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, in the short term, the central registration, screening and reception of refugees at the European external borders, as in Italy, Greece and Hungary, is an important condition for a fair distribution of refugees across the European Member States;]] [[calls on the Government, within the European Union, to support the plan to move towards the central registration and reception (hotspots) of refugees at the European external borders as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-327]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mr. Chairman. There are quite a few similarities between what the cabinet says and what we think. At the same time, however, on the major issues, the cabinet leaves much more to be desired with the reception in the region, the necessary agreement with countries such as Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan, the fact that much more is needed than just the consolation of the refugee crisis and that much more work needs to be done on matters such as a more sensible foreign policy and fairer trade policy, or at least it does not clearly reflect what it wants. With regard to the situation in the Netherlands and the fact that many people are waiting for a house here, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that for both status holders who have applied for protection in the Netherlands as refugees and for Dutch citizens an often untenable difficult situation arises due to the low availability of affordable social housing in our country;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up, in very short term, in consultation with municipalities and master plan to ensure easy and affordable, adequate housing quickly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-328]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u168	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. Yesterday we saw a first step, which hopefully leads to a sprint towards a common European asylum policy, also in order to prevent us from standing here every month, if not every week. Greater rescue capacity, joint registration, a better and permanent key and a common return policy, that is what we need. When will the Netherlands receive the 7,000 allocated refugees? I know there's a two-year deadline, but I think it's undesirable to wait another two years for that. They're people with no perspective. What years do the additional 110 million emergency aid come from? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government continues to carry out Dublin transfers to Hungary;]] [[whereas Hungary is currently violating fundamental human rights in the reception and treatment of asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government of Hungary to address this treatment of asylum seekers;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend Dublin transfers to Hungary until the reception of asylum seekers in Hungary meets European standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Voortman, Mr Voordewind and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-329]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of asylum seekers are currently entering the Netherlands per week;]] [[Whereas this has and will have a major social and economic impact on society;]] [[Whereas the Dutch absorption capacity is not infinite;]] [[calls on the Government to state the maximum number of asylum seekers that it considers the Netherlands can handle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bontes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-330]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u170	This motion was co-signed by Mr Azmani. No, that last one was a joke, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u171	I understand that the motion was not co-signed by Mr Azmani. The spoken word counts here. It is therefore a good thing that I am now putting this in the microphone for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u172	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that UNHCR is showing billions in deficit for the reception of refugees in the region;]] [[noting that UNHCR indicates that Europe is systematically lagging behind as a donor;]] [[Whereas human and sound reception in the region provides a solution to the influx of refugees to Europe;]] [[calls on the government, tonight at the European Summit of Heads of Government, to make more money available to refugee organisations for the reception of refugees in the region,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu, Mr Krol and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-331]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u173	I hope your second motion is very brief, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u174	It's a short motion. I will skip the observation and the considerations. The spoken word is true. I'll table an amended motion later. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Syrian-Dutch organisations on the reception of Syrian refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst- 32317-332]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u175	I'll have the amended motion circulated through Parlis. It's procedurally possible. A small fraction must be creative.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u176	We're gonna talk about this, but we're not gonna do that now, because there's no time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u177	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answers. I will ask the questions on figures and budgets again in writing. I understand we're not getting that right now. However, it has a major impact on the budget and on the people admitted here. So it is important to know exactly what we have agreed on. My group continues to think it is of the utmost importance that the root causes are addressed, and that is the conflict in Syria. We have just seen the Commission's plan before the sitting. This is about refugees, about an additional billion for Turkey to help and about aid for Greece and Macedonia. However, this is not about the causes. I really ask the Prime Minister to discuss it urgently and put it on the agenda. I also ask him to consult with difficult countries such as Russia and Iran in order to find a solution. I shall table one motion on the Presidency. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current European agreements do little at the source of the refugee problem, and the European approach lacks a medium- and long-term solution, which should, moreover, be used in the short term;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has the opportunity and the moral obligation to make proposals for this during the EU Presidency;]] [[calls on the government, during the Dutch presidency of the EU, to make the refugee problem a first and absolute priority so that the Netherlands takes a leading role in finding long-term solutions that can be implemented quickly;]] [[also requests the Government to forward an agenda to the Chamber within two weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-333]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I have not prepared any motions, nor have I co-signed any motions. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. He talked about not having too much discussion, but now he's going to go through with it. I am pleased that the Secretary of State will contact his colleague in their ministry on the security aspects of this influx and an integrated approach to jihadism. I wish the Prime Minister success in Brussels with the driving role needed not only to redistribute and mobilise more resources for reception in the region in the short term, but also to create safe ports and declare asylum applications inadmissible in the medium term. All these tracks must be acted on immediately, because we can wait for neither one nor the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u179	Mr Voordewind, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u180	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that Mr Azmani is encouraging these other areas. What incentive does he give the Prime Minister for tonight for the root cause of the conflict in Syria?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u181	Then we'll end up in a defence debate. We can't do that right now. I believe that the VVD's position on Syria is clear. We are prepared, but with a good mandate. I think that's on-going, but I don't want to say anything about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u182	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister for their answers. What does the Prime Minister expect from the summit tonight? When's he gonna get happy out of there? I ask that question because the Prime Minister spoke of wands. In magic wands there are also spelling formulas. Europe does not have magic wands, but it is good at spelling formulas. However, they do not solve the problems either. Hence the question of what we can expect in concrete terms. What's the prime minister's bet on for tonight's summit?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u183	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister for their answers. I hope for a good discussion at the European summit this evening. It is intense, but we are now moving slowly towards a European asylum policy. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his commitment that he will make a point this evening that it is really necessary for all countries to make additional contributions to reception in the areas around the conflict countries and that we should work together in this area. Small solutions can sometimes help in the search for local support. That is why I propose the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas housing the increased influx of asylum seekers may put pressure on municipalities;]] [[Whereas the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers is now obliged to purchase its contracts centrally, excluding local shopkeepers and entrepreneurs from participation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that changes are made to the laws and regulations allowing the Central Commission for the reception of asylum seekers more space to allow local residents to lift the increased demand for products and labour in and around the azc's,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik, Mr Gesthuizen, Mr Voortman and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-334]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u184	I know that the Secretary of State is open to this, but I think it is a misconception to think that there are obstacles in the regulation not to do this any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u185	Madam President. I too would like to thank you for your reply. I'd like to file two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas Europe is larger than the EU;]] [[whereas the flow of refugees towards Europe is therefore not a problem for the EU alone, but for the continent of Europe;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts to ensure that non-EU countries also contribute to the reception of refugees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-335]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u186	We would like the government to call on the other UN Member States to increase their UNHCR contribution. That is precisely the case for those Members who are not or hardly contributing at the moment. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Netherlands is one of the largest donors of UNHCR;]] [[Whereas reception in the region is one of the most important ways of keeping the reception of refugees manageable;]] [[calls on the Government, other Member States, to increase their contribution to UNHCR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32317-336]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u187	I wish the Prime Minister much wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr Houwers waives his second term. This brings to an end the second term on the part of the Chamber. The government has indicated that it must consult for a moment on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u190	As announced, the Prime Minister had to leave the meeting to travel to Brussels. The Secretary of State for Security and Justice will now respond to the motions tabled. I would remind everyone that the first and the second motion are printed on one sheet, so double-sided: the second is on the back of the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr. Chairman. There were three more questions, and I'd like to start with that. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the Prime Minister's expectations for tonight's meeting. He has informed me that he expects, above all, that there will be full pressure on the measures to be worked on and that the commitment will be reconfirmed. Yesterday's decision should not lead to the idea: if that is done, let us not see each other for a moment. After that bump has been taken, other important elements such as return, reception in the region, longer-term solutions and the surveillance of the external borders must be taken forward so that this is fully committed. Apart from that, a number of countries will need to review yesterday, because they have seen a decision adopted which they themselves voted against, but which is legally binding. Mr Sjoerdsma asked what year the 110 million came in for emergency aid. He has read in his reply this morning that this comes from the coming year, the year 2016, and the year 2020. It's those two years. There was also the question when the 7,000 people would come. I think it is good to think about that, also because we are having a discussion all the time about whether they are getting on top of it. Yea, the people that are now are there; the people that are yet to come will always recover. The question is only about the future. Those people who are there now, of course, are not waiting for them all to come here soon at the same time. These people need to come in now and be registered. Without these agreements they would have gone through, because Greece has a very high number of people coming in, but also a very high number of people going out and going through. The number of people in asylum procedures in Greece is not high. Those people would have redistributed themselves to Europe without these agreements. Now we do this in an orderly manner, after registration, in which each country has to participate. As we see it now, it will not work. I'm not going to say that this means lower numbers for the Netherlands; for that, you have to compare future scenarios that you don't know. I'd like to stress the situation and sketch the picture properly. It depends on when that registration starts and when it starts to work. After that, we will gradually be able to take over people. Registration must have started first. Now the motions. The first motion of Mr Voortman c.s., in part No. 323, is about a new contribution to resettlement. I would advise against this motion because I do not want to anticipate new plans and because we do not have any plans to adjust matters in the interim and to increase our numbers and share in resettlement. The second motion by Mr Voortman and others, in part No. 324, it's about what we're already doing. One of the channels is the EU Trust Fund. That is what we want to do, and this evening we will argue in favour of it. This motion therefore supports the policy, because we are already going to do so, but also because it is part of what we think. On the third motion, in part No. 325, I get the impression that elements of cabinet policy, which is something that already exists, are being incorporated into the motion without any addition. That will make her redundant. That's why I advise against this motion, because I think it's superfluous. The fourth motion in part No. 326 I also advise against. The Prime Minister's already traveled, so we won't make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u192	I understand that the Secretary of State believes that the third motion, on the establishment of a permanent system of distribution and harmonization of European asylum policy, is entirely in line with the commitment of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u193	We have already outlined our medium-term perspective. Of course, that's not gonna happen right away, so you need to do something else right now. The ideal picture for this period is a harmonisation of European asylum policy, so it does not matter whether people in Germany, Lithuania or the Netherlands apply for asylum. And because there is then one policy, with a redistribution of everything, in all cases an application in the Netherlands can lead to a place of employment in Lithuania, and vice versa. I cannot turn it into a more European asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u194	My point is that in addition to the 120,000 refugees we are talking about tonight, next year and the year after that we will also be dealing with new numbers. These must also be divided in one way or another. If the Secretary of State says that this is exactly the intention and that the Netherlands also shows commitment, I will continue this motion. However, if he does not yet want to commit to the share of the Netherlands in accepting the next numbers, I must put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u195	In fact, I really want to get out of this discussion about numbers that we have every few months. We want one system in which numbers are thrown into a pile and then distributed. That may sound a bit plastic, but that's the goal. We want to get rid of this discussion every time. We want every country to take its responsibilities on a permanent basis. It doesn't sound nice, but there is now some sort of asylum shopping in practice. We want to get rid of that. We also want countries to avoid responsibility by lowering standards and making circumstances unattractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u196	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u197	At the request of Mrs Voortman, I propose her motion (32317, No. 325). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u198	I was at the motion in part no. 327. This motion is very similar to the motion we just discussed. I also have the same judgment; this is what we do and this is what we want. That's why I think she's redundant and I'm not recommending the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u199	I have just said at the time of interruption that the cabinet letter is still about mobile hotspots under the heading of the medium term. The purpose of this motion is to put this issue on the agenda of the European Union as one of the main priorities so that we can move on to those hotspots as soon as possible and have that central distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u200	The latter, for us, is crucial. Just bet on hotspots without making any good deals about what you're gonna do with the distribution, I don't want to. I repeat what I said to Mrs Voortman: the cabinet policy is to do both.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u201	Well, we'll just have to wait and see. I have tabled the motion because it is not in the Cabinet letter, but if the Secretary of State says it is going to happen this way, I will hold the motion and I will see if the Cabinet does indeed implement it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u202	At the request of Mr Voordewind, I propose his motion (32317, No. 327). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u203	I share the object of the petitioner's motion in part No. 328 that we must continue to consult municipalities, which have already begun, on more housing and the more rapid removal of licence holders, without this leading to greater competition with others who would like a rental house. We do; we would like to get to work quickly and not first create and present an entire master plan. So the question is to what extent it is more than we are doing now, and that is why I advise against the motion. We just want to get to work with the partners. We don't want to make a master plan. The motion in part No. 329, I also advise against. We've talked about this before. I don't feel like stopping these Dublin transfers now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u204	I'd like to specify it a little more. There are judgments from German courts. They refused Dublin claims. They have done so on the basis of a lot of grounds, but let me mention three very important grounds. The first is systematic arbitrary detention, even in the case of a Dublin reference. The second is deportation to other countries. That is therefore a violation of the principle of non-refoulement, including in the case of Dublin claims. The third is concern that falls under the minimum standards accepted by the European Union. If the Secretary of State looks at these three examples in all those court rulings, does he really think we can send people back there?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u205	That's what I think. On 8 September, the court in The Hague also gave a ruling on this matter. So that was a Dutch judge, who has a function in our system. He concluded that there was no evidence that reception, health care and legal assistance were no longer available in the procedure and that there were no systematic shortcomings that should lead us to stop making Dublin claims. The motion in part No. 330, I also advise against it. There is no maximum limit, although, of course, we are committed at European level to making the inflow controllable and lower. In the motion in part No. 331 the government is invited to make more money available to refugee organisations. This is already happening. President Tusk has also called on the Member States to do so. The motion is therefore superfluous and therefore I advise against it. The motion in part No. 332, I also advise against it. I have nothing against it, but it's not realistic to say that we're going to do this now. We're in the process of getting shelter soon. That's what we need to do now. So we focus on realizing shelter. That's our priority. I'm not gonna give anything to grunts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u206	In any case, I hear that the Secretary of State is not unwillingly opposed, but that it is dangling on his list of priorities somewhere at the bottom. This could, however, give new insights for policy making and identifying priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u207	We always listen to people with good ideas, but I do not want to create a consultative structure on this title. I want to get to work so that people with a status can also play their role in society as soon as possible, so that they can get to work and learn Dutch. These are, of course, things that we are working on right away. I see more in the individual way of ensuring that something can be done if one so wishes, than in adding all kinds of new consultation structures to the existing ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u208	The motion also calls not for a consultative structure, a periodic consultation or a structural consultation, but simply for an exchange of views with, for example, the Syrian Committee in the Netherlands on the current problems in this country. I have had those talks and I assure the Secretary of State that he will then have new insights that are really valuable in defining his policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u209	A government is not the body to engage in an unstructured conversation. It doesn't work like that. We have our existing discussions and there is also very useful work done at all levels by many volunteers who come forward. I just want to keep those structures that way. I don't want to add anything to that. The motion in part No. 333 I also advise against. If you are chairman of a meeting, you have priorities that you want to bring in because they would probably not or not be sufficiently addressed otherwise. If there is now a topic that dominates the agenda, including between January and July, then it is this issue. Our stakes are clear. As President, you must also realise that your role is President of a meeting, in a dynamic where this is already a top priority and the Commission, but also the support of the Presidency is constantly working on this, even now, when Luxembourg is the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u210	That's a weird answer. The government has sent a letter to the Chamber with a great deal of tamsam, with 25 priorities for the Presidency, with all kinds of substantive preparations in which the Chamber is taken on board. The President certainly has an active role to play in this regard as regards the way in which he wishes to address things. Of course, I share the view of Secretary of State Dijkhoff that this important issue, whether we like it or not, will really not be resolved by January. That's clear. We may, however, ask that this issue be identified as a priority. The government does so, but is it also prepared to enter into consultations on how we can now effectively find solutions? Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so and also to leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u211	No, because the motion also calls on the government to forward an agenda for this to the Chamber within two weeks. The work programme for us as President will come later this year. Of course, as a cabinet member of that meeting, we will regularly put our efforts into that meeting. I don't want those two things to get mixed up. We are chairman of this agenda, which will be dominated by migration issues. We should not think that we can already predict how the discussions will proceed in that six months. In substance, we have our cabinet position that we simply share with the Chamber and that is also known here. The work programme will come to the Chamber and we will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u212	That's very disappointing. These are 25 themes, including strong cities, energy and human trafficking, at the request of the Chamber. There are very comprehensive reports on what exactly the Dutch commitment is. And this is where we're supposed to play the neutral chairman at once? I would really like to call on the government to do exactly and in good time, if this is not possible within two weeks, in November too, to indicate what the commitment is to resolve this problem and how the Presidency intends to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u213	That is the reality of Europe. It's not like we're sitting neutrally ahead. We have our cabinet position. That's obvious. That's what we've been talking about today. There are issues where the pressure is not so great or where you want to take steps forward in relation to a particular legislative process that is specific and that runs for a long time. However, on such a dynamic and urgent subject as this, it is an illusion to already think that you can plan month by month what needs to be done. This is perhaps the more difficult part of the European Presidency that can be held as a Member State, namely constantly responding to current events with the Member States, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament. Luxembourg also did not predict that we had a meeting last week and last night and that we have another meeting tonight. This is precisely a part of knowing what you want as a Member State but also understand that it is so complex that 28 Member States and the Commission will not join your work programme on such a dossier. Then I come to the motion on part No. 334 on the purchase. I think we agree that you should do so as much as possible. However, the motion presupposes that I could remove the restrictions imposed on it in the light of the regulations. I would therefore like to have a little more time to identify exactly what the obstacles are. When it comes to European procurement law, I cannot do this. Then I can't do what the motion asks. I therefore propose that this motion be resurrected once I have informed the Chamber, after consulting the COA, of the obstacles and the reasons for them, whether they are legal or otherwise. Then I can then enter into discussions with the Chamber on this matter, to see what the Chamber thinks should be changed in terms of content. I therefore ask the author to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u214	I understand Mrs. Chicken is thinking about it. If she has her motion in part No. 334 doesn't hold, I'm guessing it's not recommended. Mrs. Kuik needs to think about it, I see. I would therefore like to hear a ruling on the motion from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u215	Then I advise the motion, because I don't know if I can meet it right now. The motion in part No. 335, on the contribution of non-EU countries, is superfluous because the Netherlands wants to focus mainly on third countries in the region. However, we do not exclude other third countries, so if third countries in Europe want to play that role, we will appeal to them as well. In practice, there are also some countries that would like to join the EU, which are already acting as such and would like to show that they could be a full Member State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u216	So what's your verdict on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u217	I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. 336 is very similar to that in part No. 324. The government will indeed urge the other Member States to increase their contribution to the UNHCR insofar as they are lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u218	You will therefore leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber, as with the motion in part No. 324. Mr Kuzu has an open question, but I shall first give Mrs Kuik the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u219	Sorry, I was too busy doing other things to pay attention to myself, I apologize for that. I'll hold the motion. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment and effort to look at it. Then we still have a stick behind the door, should we not be able to completely agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u220	At the request of Mrs Kuik, I propose her motion (32317, No. 334), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 334/2004. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u221	Can the Secretary of State explain to me the difference between the motions on the documents Nos. 324, 336 and 331?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u222	The opinion on the motions for resolutions on documents Nos. 324 and 336 were left to the Chamber and the motion in part No. 331 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u223	This was a question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u224	That for which in the motion in part No. 331 is advocated, is already done by EU President Tusk. The other motions concern something that was not in the Cabinet letter yet, but what the government does intend to do tonight. That's why these motions support policy. That is one of the many differences between these three motions, with me in the motions on the items Nos. 336 and 324 in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u225	The three motions are actually asking the same question, so I wonder where the Secretary of State gets this distinction, because there is no such distinction. So I'm really wondering, where's the difference now? The difference the Secretary of State mentions is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u226	This kind of discussion, whether or not something's right, we don't have anything. It is a judgment; Mr Kuzu does not have to agree. Am I supposed to be pretending to be reading in comprehension? I'd be happy to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u227	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u228	One motion is about organisations and is therefore very broad. The other concerns the UNHCR and is therefore very specific. There is also a motion specifically about the reception. That is something else than, very broad, refugee organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u229	I have another question about Slovakia. This debate has come to the fore in the news that this country is really putting its heels in the sand, does not want to cooperate and wants to challenge the decision legally. Will the Netherlands, within this evening's consultation, make efforts to prevent all kinds of legal proceedings from being carried out and that this will have a suspensive effect? There is an obligation to cooperate, including for Slovakia, even though that country is fighting the decision in a variety of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u230	The latter is the case. It's a mandatory decision. We hear that language, too. We are going for good consultation, but should Slovakia initiate a procedure, if it can do so, we will not be alarmed. It will not lead to us advocating an exemption for Slovakia or another country. It is part of the discussion that we are really doing our best to achieve consensus. We put months into that, too. Sometimes you get to the point where you have to vote and a limited number of countries have to be overruled in order to avoid reaching such a watered-down consensus, that nothing has actually been decided anymore. We therefore support yesterday's decision, otherwise I would not have voted in favour. We also support the imposition and enforcement of this, including in Slovakia.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-23-tweedekamer-3.u231	Vote on the motions tabled will take place at the beginning of the afternoon sitting at 2.30 p.m.
