ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. We are the first to discuss substantive issues in this new Chamber, and I would like to congratulate the spokesmen of the various political groups who are making their maiden speech today on the wind energy bill at sea. In a way, this is a special legislative proposal: it seems innocent and, above all, procedural in nature, but it is also a proposal which is very much under way and for a long time. It is a question of making it possible to decide on the creation of wind farms at sea, but of course it is also about the creation of these parks and the use of public funds. In this debate, the CDA Group wants to focus not only on the draft law itself, but also on the follow-up, the choice of location, the realisation of these parks and the public investment that it requires. That is not part of this law, but it is a very important consequence of this law and it is the first time we have been able to talk about it in plenary. Moreover, given the importance of the matter, we would have preferred to take a little more time to prepare the debate, including with our new colleagues in the political groups. The fact that 30 June as a date of treatment is found to be difficult because the law may then be subject to an advisory referendum is actually a gutterpe. It is precisely this government, which is introducing that referendum, and those who are in favour of such a referendum, who are also in favour of this law, that wants to make such a haste, in order to avoid a possible referendum, that seems to us very strange, if not unbelievable. It would have been so nice if parties such as GroenLinks and D'66, who said they were in favour of the consultative referendum, had been able to determine, through that instrument, that there is strong support for this law. Unfortunately, it seems that the test is not going to be carried out. But first, the bill itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u2	I am curious to see what Mr Flierman is basing his claim that we are not going to have the courage to hold a referendum. As far as we are concerned, it is excellent if this subject is subject to a referendum. Mr Flierman knows that I have indicated very clearly what we are talking about, namely that it is important to speed up this legislative proposal. I would therefore like to hear your statement that we would not dare to hold a referendum, Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u3	Well, I base that on the fact that when we talked about the date of treatment, one of the main arguments against the date of 30 June was that the law would then first be in the Official Journal on 1 July and would therefore be subject to the law on the consultative referendum, and that several parties felt that this was a pity, because it threatened the pace. Well, the consequence...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u4	I object to this very strongly. What Mr Flierman says is simply not right. The importance of my party, and also of a number of other parties, was precisely that we were told by all the parties in the field that it is very important to take a decision quickly so that we can prepare the whole tender scheme and everything that is to come. In no way has the argument of a consultative referendum been mentioned by my group or by any of the other groups. I would therefore ask you, quite frankly, to take back these words, because you are wrong about the way things are going here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u5	You are absolutely right, Mr President. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u6	I would like to put it this way. In the government's argument that this law should be dealt with quickly, the issue of the consultative referendum was indeed raised. That was not contradicted in the committee's discussion. The argument that we are in a hurry with this law, I believe, can never be an argument for avoiding an advisory referendum. Otherwise, we should not have wanted to introduce it. You can't hold referendums just about the things you're not in a hurry with and they want to avoid the things you're in a hurry with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u7	Finally. I am glad that Mr Flierman is now saying that it is apparently an argument from the cabinet. That's right. It's in the cabinet's letter. But for my group this has in no way been a reason. We would like to put this bill to a referendum with confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u8	I can only observe that GroenLinks, despite this, has also insisted strongly on treatment today. Mr. Chairman. I will continue with the bill itself. Quite frankly, there is not much to be said for technical reasons. The Council of State was reasonably positive, and many of its comments have also been taken into account by the Minister. That happens less often, so pay tribute to it! We also thank the Minister for his answers in the written preparation, which were convincing and sufficient in terms of law itself. But the CDA Group also attaches its judgment to the way the minister is going to use the law to achieve his goals. With this law in hand, the Minister, together with his colleague from Infrastructure and the Environment, will prepare a partial modification of the National Water Plan and then identify or expand new locations in some areas where wind farms at sea are possible. Within these areas, he takes lot decisions, after which a tender grants permission to entrepreneurs for the realisation of a wind farm and the grant is granted on the basis of the SDE+ scheme. All this with the aim of meeting the commitments of the national energy agreement. These agreements are, in turn, necessary in order to comply with the commitments made by the Netherlands in a European context on a more sustainable energy system. Let me say in advance that the CDA Group strongly supports the commitment to curb or halt global warming and, among other things, to achieve sustainable energy management and a reduction in CO emissions. We also understand and support the fact that the Netherlands also opts for wind energy. No doubt about that! The European agreements concern both the reduction of CO emissions and the sustainability of energy production. With the first, the reduction of CO emissions, it does not want to succeed for all kinds of reasons, and so the second agreement, the sustainability of generation, becomes all the more important. Moreover, could the Minister outline what impact he expects from the recent G7 commitments on sustainability? Indeed, as we are more successful in CO reduction, there may be more time to look for less controversial and/or more cost-effective sources of renewable energy generation. As I said, the CDA Group supports the commitment to European agreements, but how much flexibility is left in them? Is there room for another mix in renewable energy sources and how much space is there in those agreements in time? Suppose you take some time, and then accelerate investment in another technology, which requires less public contribution or has more support. We would like the Minister to answer these questions. We have similar questions with regard to the national energy agreement. It sets out a certain mix in renewable energy generation and a timetable, but can you adjust it, for example if, in the long term, forms become available that can count on less costs or more support? Those who look at the agreements made in that energy agreement find that all conceivable and short-term feasible sources of sustainable generation have been deployed to the maximum, taking into account support, a kind of "all hands on deck." In this respect, the interesting report by the General Court shows that the forecasts from that energy agreement were far too optimistic. In two respects, this is the case: fewer projects are coming out of the ground than expected, and the proceeds per project are also significantly less than expected. However, to our questions as to whether all this should not lead to a review of the policy pursued, the Minister replies that he is not going to evaluate the energy agreement until 2016 for the first time. The CDA Group has doubts as to whether that is wise. Is there not a review before, for example, when the Planning Office for the Environment has completed its study, or when the national energy exploration becomes available? We would like to hear a response from the Minister. Such a review is particularly important because we are talking here about a lot of money, which is committed for many years. We are now talking about 12 billion, more than 18 billion, for a period of more than 20 years, and that is assuming that a cost reduction of as much as 40% will be achieved in the case of wind energy generation at sea. Without that reduction, the amount becomes even higher. A real business case, which you would expect with such investments, is missing. I hope that the energy producers will at least make it their own, taking into account the subsidies they receive, but as a country as a whole we do not make it. Once upon a time there was a list-taker who grumbling that "windmills run on grant," and he wasn't wrong. Therefore, there is a real business case in which not only the costs and benefits of wind energy at sea, but also the economic impacts for coastal communities and for the offshore sector, as well as the risks and alternatives are discussed. As I said, there's no such business case. Can the Minister promise that it will be on the table at the first evaluation of the energy agreement? The concern of the CDA Group is that we are going to commit a great deal of money here for a long period of time, while there is a real chance that in a number of years' time we will have to conclude that new, better, cheaper or wider-based technologies will become available for renewable energy production. You can think of solar cells, but also much larger turbines further off the coast. I understand that in the foreseeable future turbines with a capacity of 20 MW will be provided. I think that changes the picture radically. The coastal communities also stress this alternative. That brings me to my group's concern. If we say yes now, then we are going to spend a lot of money on keeping wind farms running, which may not be profitable anymore and are no longer needed, but are very visible, while there are now better alternatives. How does the Minister see that? I am making my question even more specific. On the basis of the government's intentions, the first tenders will be issued at the end of 2015, early 2016, in particular for the wind farms at Borssele. They don't have to wait for a review of the National Water Plan, I understand. Can the Minister indicate how much subsidy is currently committed cumulatively with the permit for those parks, i.e. over the expected operating period? Of the amount invested according to the location choice. It also evokes the necessary reactions, and not only in the body of the VVD. Let's talk about the procedure first. If I understand correctly, the planned locations off the Dutch coast require a partial revision of the National Water Plan. Like a structural vision, it is expected to be presented to both Chambers of the States General in early 2016. This means that a green light for the realisation of these sites, including making the grant available, can only be given after an agreement has been reached on that revision. We'd like to hear from the Minister if that's true. The government now seems to choose to effectively dimension the parks off the Dutch coast by adding a two-mile strip on the land side, which means that they are not 12 miles off the coast, but 10 miles off the coast. This has major consequences for the visibility from land, for the support base and for the economy of the coastal communities, as witnessed by the fierce protests. Isn't the addition of that space on the sea side much more attractive for the support? Can the Minister describe to us again what that would mean? How will the Minister deal with the Van Veldhoven-Mulder motion, which was unanimously accepted in the House of Representatives, on a social cost-benefit analysis? Is this analysis included in the proposals for the revision of the National Water Plan and in the final Lot Decision? I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister. I am also asking for it so strongly, because the Minister, at another location, namely the IJsselmeer, quickly dismissed the alternatives put forward by the province of Fryslân, among others, the Afsluitdijk. To what extent is the Minister's support really a relevant factor in this debate? Would he like to say anything about that? Then there are also the locations that become attractive in the medium term: IJmuiden Ver or near the Wadden. Is it conceivable to develop them more quickly? With larger turbines there may be much more possible at the same or similar cost. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Finally, I would like to focus on measures to save on consumption. Although they do not contribute to the objective of sustainable generation, they do contribute to the reduction of CO emissions. Moreover, large-scale use of residential insulation or more efficient boilers could have a significant effect on employment. What does the Minister think of that alternative? All in all, we believe that a rapid evaluation of the policies deployed is very important. These days we look back on the construction of the hsl and the arrival of the Fyra. The Minister does not see any similarities between this case and the issue we are discussing today, but my group does. Here too, there is the risk of unrealistic, too beautiful bids in the tender. Here too, a lot of money is being committed for a long time. Here too there is the risk of a tunnel vision and of what administrators call "tangle." Last Thursday's NRC had an interesting reflection which concluded that Parliament should look much more critically at its own decision-making. Too often it bumps with the delusion of the day, without critical reflection and without the co-weighing of signals from the outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u9	Mr Flierman now states that, with the adoption of this law, we are setting everything down for a very long period of time. I've read the law in a very different way. In my opinion, the law lays down a system for issuing lots and for granting permits, but it is possible to incorporate new insights over the years into the way in which these parks are eventually built there. I would therefore like to hear from Mr Flierman the idea that we are now going to record everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u10	I said at the beginning of my introduction that the law in a narrower sense is not so bad, but that this law does initiate a process that has major consequences. This is the first and perhaps not the only, but an important opportunity to discuss this with each other. I also see in other legislative proposals that we are not only talking about the law sec, but are also thinking about the impact of such a longer-term bill. We believe that it is appropriate to do the same in this law at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u11	So I understand that your criticism is not so much about this law as about developing wind at sea in the longer term? You have serious doubts about that. Is that the right conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u12	I have just formulated what I have just said: in the technical sense, there is not much going on with the law. We are concerned with the policy that is being put into effect by that law. In particular, we are wondering whether a great deal of policy will not be launched in the longer term and a great deal of resources will be set aside, while in the foreseeable future it may be necessary to conclude that I am now moving forward to the conclusion of my input that it would have been better to look at other alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u13	I also ask the question because Mr Flierman speaks so explicitly about the plans for a possible wind farm that was closer to the coast than was the idea earlier. Anything is still possible around that park, as far as research and the like is concerned. Of course, we're not making those kind of decisions today. That is why I wanted to ask him very clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u14	Let me say this: I would like to hear whether the Minister agrees with Mrs Vos on this point, so there is still a lot of room to return to these matters. So my position was that as a parliament we should look critically at today's decision-making. We have to do something with those lessons. This means that we do not yet have to open the door to an investment programme of many billions, where there is a real risk that in a few years' time it will be classified as superfluous or uneconomic. If we do, and we take a decision once and for all, then there is a good chance that this debate will still be quoted in the parliamentary survey of windmills at sea in ten years' time. We therefore strongly call for an early evaluation, i.e. in early 2016, to be careful and comprehensive, including space to think out of the box. The central question here must be how we can combine sustainability, sufficient support and careful use of public funds. When can we expect this evaluation? In any event, the CDA Group believes that the decision on the partial revision of the National Water Plan should only be taken after or in conjunction with this evaluation. That gives the opportunity to discuss these locations again with each other and with the government. Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group, as you are listening to, still has a number of fundamental questions that are not so much concerned with the law itself as with the steps taken after its adoption. We are certainly not against wind energy, not even at sea, but we are concerned that a huge amount of tax money may be spent inefficiently or carelessly. We therefore attach great importance to an early, careful evaluation, with room for also to opt for alternatives that can count on more support or be achieved with less public money, before we start investing large sums in the way we have planned. We await the Minister's response to this point with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u15	I have one last question. Mr Flierman keeps saying that there may be much better alternatives that are coming soon. I would like to hear what alternatives he envisages. He's actually turning it into a very big problem right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u16	We know that the technology to improve the yield of solar cells is making considerable progress. From my position at the University of Twente I know that interesting research is being done in the sphere of nanotechnology, with good perspectives. That's one possibility. With regard to a second possibility, I refer to last week's publication in the Volkskrant, which outlined the perspective of much larger wind turbines that can be placed much further at sea. That too may be a possibility that may be available in the foreseeable future. If that is possible, it would in a way combine the best of both worlds. These windmills can be realised at sea, in areas where the wind is possible to increase, without any disturbance of sight and thus without compromising the tourist value of the coast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u17	All kinds of reports show that in quite a few years' time wind at sea, wind on land and in fact all available techniques are still needed to get close to our objectives at all and that a number of new techniques still need many years of development before they can make a substantial contribution. I don't quite see the position of the CDA right now. It sounds a bit like: let's wait a few more years before we really start. That's not supposed to happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u18	I said that, in general terms, we support the sustainability agenda, the European commitments. There's no doubt about that. I also asked the Minister what it would mean to think for a moment and then take faster steps. Before we adopt our position on this subject, I must disappoint Mrs Vos....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Nor can it be intended that it is now a kind of "sucking or choking" package: you have to accept this package in this mix, otherwise you are against everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u19	I'll take advantage of that! Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to inform you that I am speaking not only on behalf of the SP Group, but also on behalf of the Animal Party. I am, of course, very pleased with the confidence they have placed in us. If you are allowed to speak in this beautiful plenary room a week after your installation and then with this minister and then also on behalf of two parties, then of course you have nothing to complain about. I know that there has been a necessary exchange of views on the date of this debate. My predecessor has already talked about this in detail; that is behind us. Well, at least I'm glad I'm getting to work today. It was hard work, though, to become master of this complex matter in such a short term. I have had a great deal of help from my party and group colleagues, so I assume that I can make a nice story here. It is good to be able to speak on a subject such as this, the sustainability of our energy generation, which is so close to my heart. As has already been said by my party's spokesmen in the election period: we will wholeheartedly support good proposals, we will try to stop bad proposals here in this Chamber. I would like to inform the Minister that this proposal will most likely be supported by the SP. Today we are discussing the government's proposals on the sustainability of our energy generation or in short wind energy at sea. Of course, that is a subject that keeps the moods very busy. Everyone is for wind energy, except if it is in your own front or backyard; then a lot of water goes through the ditch before it is decided. Anyway, we're gonna have to do something about this. The Energy Agreement was concluded in September 2013. It was a real achievement to get both environmental friends and entrepreneurs behind this proposal. The objectives of the agreement are clear. By 2020, we will have to generate 14% of renewable energy and the ambition is to be 100% sustainable by 2050. I think things are going wrong there, because the Netherlands is dangling somewhere in the European Union. It has stuck in the last measurement on a poor 4.5% sustainably generated energy. Only two countries in the European Union are even more dependent on fossil energy than we are. The Netherlands is the furthest away from the EU 2020 target from all countries in the European Union. On the other hand, Estonia, Bulgaria and Sweden have already achieved their objective. Friend and enemy will agree that it has to be better soon. Fortunately, my predecessor has just said that sustainable energy movements will quickly multiply, but that does not mean that our government should sit on its hands. It is very good that we are showing that we are seriously looking at the sustainability of energy. The pain is, of course, where are we gonna do it and how are we gonna do it? The Minister has proposed three wind farms off the coast of Zeeland, South Holland and North Holland. Resistance and protest have become part of him. Signatures were collected and offered. The argument was: tourists stay away massively, entrepreneurs can close their doors, employment is being undermined and the economic damage will be enormous. In the proposal before us, these windmills are now two kilometres closer to the coast than in the original proposal. The result is, of course, that they are more visible. Our groups regret the fact that a relocation proposal has actually been put forward without further consultation, not so much because of the lack of spatial quality. This minister does not necessarily seem to me to be someone who runs away from talking to citizens, even if they are angry with him, but he knows that if you want to create support, you should primarily engage in the conversation. Not for nothing did my fellow party member Smaling from the other side insist on doing so in particular. That is why I find it strange that an appointment in Zandvoort to speak with the municipal councils there in the neighborhood was unilaterally cancelled by the Ministry. I am therefore wondering: will there be another appointment, when will it be and does the Minister perhaps have more visits on his agenda? I would very much like to hear the Minister's answer to that. Then I come to the answer to the question of why it is not possible to build further off the coast. Now the proposal is 18.5 kilometres away, the ten-mile zone, as has already been said. The Minister promised to examine the cost picture of this, but he then returned to the House of Representatives with the announcement that builders and developers refused to share funds. Of course, I have every understanding and respect for competition considerations, but this Chamber is asking for a yes or a no. I can imagine that we are well aware of these amounts. Can the Minister give us any idea of what the cost is now, when you build those windmills at 12 miles instead of ten miles in those two locations? We, as the government's auditor, expect to be able to balance facts, including costs. With Photoshop you can do just about anything nowadays. It's very easy to make a picture showing you how the coast looks like when there are wind farms. Opponents build an almost impenetrable forest, so we will hardly see the sea anymore, while the minister comes up with pictures on which they appear at the end, but in a very blurred way. Our groups naturally wonder how clear it can be. Is it really true that those windmills are ruining the view forever? What do you actually see and how far would you have to put them off the coast to make sure you won't see them? You all know the Dutch climate. Clear days with a clear blue sky and a clear view are exceptions in the Netherlands. I don't have to be a weatherwoman here to be able to predict that with confidence. I think that these days will rarely occur and that it will therefore be very rare for these windmills to really deprive us of sight or at least to show themselves very disturbingly against the horizon. And if you hit such a day, to what extent are they face-defining and chasing people on the run? A bit of searching resulted in me that on clear days you can't look beyond 20 kilometers, because dust, air pollution and water vapour will take you further. That's why the SP thinks it's really important, knowing how much it costs when you place a windmill further away or closer. It is obvious that, if you can make it plausible that the visibility is not limited, then the resistance will be a lot less. 'Cause with that resistance, it couldn't be too bad. If you look at the Belgian and Swedish coasts, you will see that they easily build their wind farms in the sea, also in crowded places. Moreover, an American study shows that if these windmills are installed, 75% of the visitors say they will return to the beach in question if these things are placed in full view at a distance of ten kilometres. If they were 22 kilometres away, 94% of the visitors would return and 100% would be out of the picture. Of course, our groups would also like to see natural and environmental considerations taken into account when the windmills are installed. That is why we would like the Minister to clarify what measures have been taken to avoid disrupting marine mammals during the construction of the windmills, to monitor whether migratory birds are affected by windmills and whether there are difficulties for fish and marine mammals during the operation of windmills. We also want to know whether negative environmental effects may still be expected due to the coating or corrosion of the mills. The minister has chosen the places where tourism is most important, while the Netherlands on the north side has a much wider part of the continental shelf than on the west side. A large long triangle in the North Sea, with less traffic. In Groningen, wishes have been expressed to do more about wind energy on that side. At present, military use is given priority in that area, but we should not have to accept that as a firm fact. Groningen has been in the spotlight for a long time now because of the gas extraction, but also because of the emptiness and the ageing of the population. The economic strengthening of the area would be very welcome. I would like the Minister to tell us why the North Netherlands has not yet been included in this bill. There is a huge amount of fuss about the money we have to put into this project. Let us assume that in 15 years we will spend between 12 and 18 billion. After all, it would not be the first project not to end within the budget. Yet renewable energy is popularly known as running on grant. When you tell people that a lot more money is being spent on fossil energy, they often look at you a little glassy. I am not talking so much about subsidies, but about benefits, such as lower taxes. Even the IMF, according to friend and enemy a solid institution, indicates that there is a shocking amount of money going towards fossil energy. Calculations by the IMF show that in the Netherlands, 8.6 billion tax advantages go to middle and large consumers of fossil energy. I would ask the Minister whether it would not be much fairer to limit this advantage and, in particular, ask the middle and large consumers to make a greater contribution to sustainable development. After all, partly because of their large consumption we are also stuck with climate change, air pollution, health damage and other side effects. By way of comparison, the SDE+ scheme has a budget of 3.5 billion in 2015. Our groups would therefore like the Minister to consider that there are several roads leading to Rome and that the 'polluter pays' adage could be very good for the large consumers of fossil fuel. By increasing the load on fossil fuel, the knife can also cut on several sides. Not only will large consumers pay a fairer share of the transition to renewable energy, but it will also encourage them to seek energy-saving measures. I hope the Minister will respond to this proposal. I would like to return to Mr Smaling's remarks on the other side. He asked the Minister how we can prevent the bill from being paid again by the people who still have a whole month left at the end of their money. As far as I am concerned, the Minister's answer was rather simple: housing isolation. But that obviously ignores the fact that, if you isolate homes, these people will generally pay a higher rent. So I insist that they pay a disproportionate part of the price. I would ask the Minister to be more serious about this. How do we prevent those who have the least from feeling the most pain? I would also like the Minister to respond to the article in NRC last Saturday. It states that the Minister intends to finance the cost of the gas problems in Groningen with money intended for renewable energy. It seems to me that we still have a long way to go in this area and that we will need that money very much. Moreover, it is a strange move to solve fossil problems with money for sustainable. And then there's this. The minister says in the paper that the money will come back in the future. I cannot imagine that he really believes that he can simply transfer his problems to his successor. In addition, what guarantee can the Minister give that this money will indeed be returned to the renewable energy fund? I'd really like to hear his reaction to this. The fractions of the SP and the Party for Animals are for renewable energy. There's no getting away from it. We're behind schedule, so we need to hurry. But we're also curious about the Minister's story. I urge him to respond, in particular, to questions about the creation of support, the discussions with stakeholders, the choice of location and the cost of building further offshore road, the increased burden on the use of fossil energy, the measures and monitoring of nuisances for marine mammals and birds, the potential environmental impacts of coating and corrosion and how pain should be distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mrs Meta Meijer on her very good maiden speech. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Dercksen and Mr Pijlman, who will be speaking for the first time in this Chamber. It is extremely pleasant that they can do so so soon after their arrival. Mr. Chairman. My group is still concerned about global warming, because the consequences of this warming on the viability of humans, animals and plants are very serious and may even be disastrous if the temperature increase is greater than 2 °C. That is why the G7 recently decided that the agreement of no more than 2°C temperature increase is really hard and that we must stick to it. That's very nice, but still it's going to be "a hell of a job" to keep global warming below 2°C. The International Energy Agency estimated that we could reach 3.6°C temperature increase, with very disastrous consequences. Scientists recently presented a report sweeping the floor with observations that would reduce the rate of warming. They said that this is not the case; the warming continues. We also know that 2014 was the hottest year ever. Globally, there are also positive developments, such as the increase in wind energy in countries such as China and India, the growth of solar energy and the reduction of costs through innovation and scaling-up of techniques. The production and use of renewable energy is an important pillar in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. As Mrs Meijer said, Europe has made binding commitments on a country-by-country basis by 2020 to achieve a share of 20% of renewable energy. The Netherlands stands at 14%. In 2030, Europe wants to deliver 27% of renewable energy without a binding target per country. We know that the European Union's climate programme up to 2030 is insufficient to achieve by 2050 the desired CO reduction from 80% to 95%. And with that it is very uncertain whether the warming will remain within a maximum of 2°C. Is the decision of the G7, which confirms these 2°C, a reason for the cabinet to call for acceleration and intensification of international climate policy at the Paris Climate Summit? Does the government agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that combating global warming and all associated risks requires a fundamental greening of our way of life and our economy? Does the government see the reform of the tax system, for example, as a reform that we now need to use to take these fundamental steps towards greening? Does the cabinet also see that this entails great opportunities? Opportunities for the economy and employment, opportunities for innovation and resource cost savings, and opportunities for reducing dependence on dubious regimes, such as Putin. Also, a rapid expansion of renewable energy can make it easier for us to deal more quickly with the decline in the availability of natural gas in the Netherlands, by reducing gas extraction in Groningen. Does the Minister share the view that there is everything to be done to tackle this acceleration of greening and thus the acceleration of investment in renewable energy and to take steps in the context of the revision of the tax system? By the way, like Mr Meijer, I have the question of whether it is right that the revenues from the SDE+, the money for renewable energy that we all pay by paying a little more for our electricity, will soon fall into the hole in Groningen as well. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I return to the question of why today's bill is important. We must implement the energy agreement without delay. That's the least of it. The present legislative proposal is crucial for the timely implementation of the energy agreement through the agreements on wind at sea. We also know that each day delay produces more CO emissions and therefore more CO in the atmosphere. The Netherlands has already suffered a considerable delay, because in terms of renewable energy we are still at a poor 4.5%. This means that we are the furthest away from achieving our national goal from all European countries. In its report of 16 April last year, the General Court estimates that the targets for renewable energy in the Netherlands will not be met by 2020 and that additional policies are necessary to meet the 2020 target for renewable energy. Will the Minister again state the consequences of this report from the General Court? As I said, the present legislative proposal is crucial to the energy agreement. Crucial to get anywhere near the national goal of the Netherlands at all. The legislative proposal establishes an integrated system for the designation of suitable locations for offshore wind farms and the issue of permits for the construction and operation of these wind farms. Wind parks may only be built on locations or lots designated in the Lot Decision, and the lots are designated exclusively in the National Water Plan. If a grant is necessary, the licence shall be applied for during the period of eligibility and the authorisation shall be granted simultaneously with the grant decision. This ensures that, when wind comes at sea, this can be achieved faster, more efficiently and at lower subsidy costs. This system is similar to the successful Danish system. GroenLinks therefore supports this smart approach. However, we very much regret that previous licences for wind at sea have been withdrawn against the wishes and wishes of the licence holders. We do not agree with this decision and do not see why these old permits could not have existed alongside a new system. They could have contributed to a faster realization of wind at sea. I can see that Mr Flierman wishes to intervene, but I will finish this point. Why didn't the Minister at least wait for the new system to run successfully?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u21	If Mrs Vos is not quite ready for the question, I would, of course, be happy to wait. It has emphasised in its input that this law is crucial for rapid decision-making. She outlined that process. We'll recognize that. I wonder whether Mrs Vos is also committed to the locations provided for in the government's current vision for the short term, i.e. the locations near Borsele and off the Dutch coast.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u22	In itself, my group has no objection to the proposed sites. However, I would stress that, as far as we are concerned, especially if we have more time for this, we could once again look closely at locations. As far as I can tell, there are no objections about the first location that is cut, the one at Borsele. It could possibly be spent at a tender by the end of this year. I know that there is a discussion about the location of the Dutch coast, because it may be a bit closer than at 22 kilometres, namely 18.5 kilometres. My group does not have a problem with that, but my impression is that, should there be an affordable alternative, which we all say 'we do', even if this bill is adopted, there is still time to consider whether there could be any minor changes. Once again, my group does not need this, but there is room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u23	Would you therefore consider it desirable to have that review that I have advocated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u24	In particular, I have heard you say that you want a review of the whole system. We are in favour of a speedy adoption of this bill, because we think it is important to start now. After all, we are already very behind in terms of wind at sea and renewable energy. If you look again over the years at alternatives that are interesting and affordable, my group is of course not opposed to them. Only, for now, we do not think it is immediately necessary to commit ourselves to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u25	Mrs Vos has just emphasised that this law is crucial for rapid decision-making. She outlined the process. We recognize that. I wonder whether Mrs Vos is also committed to the locations provided for in the current documents, i.e. the locations at Borssele and off the Dutch coast, the locations that should be developed in the government's vision for the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u26	In itself, my group has no objection to the sites that lie ahead. However, I would like to stress that, as far as we are concerned, especially if we have more time for this, the sites could be properly looked at. As far as I can see, there are no objections to the first location that is cut, which could be issued by Borssele, and which could possibly via a tender already at the end of the year. I know there is a discussion that Mr Flierman indicated, but Mrs Meijer also said about the location off the Dutch coast, because it might be a little closer, at 18.5 kilometres, than was initially foreseen, namely 22 kilometres. My group does not have a problem with that, but if there is an alternative that is affordable if we have the money to do so, if there is still time, we can consider whether there are any minor changes to be made. Once again, as far as my group is concerned, that is not necessary, but there is room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u27	Would you also consider it desirable to carry out the review I have advocated?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u28	I have heard Mr Flierman speak in particular about a review of the whole system. We are very much in favour of the swift adoption of this law, because it is important that we get started. We are already so far behind in terms of wind at sea and in terms of renewable energy. Over the years, you can look at all kinds of alternatives. If they are interesting and affordable, my group is obviously not against them, but now we do not think it is necessary to commit ourselves to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u29	In doing so, Mrs Vos is somewhat avoiding the essence of my question. She has not heard me say so much about the locations at Borssele but the locations off the Dutch coast are now on the agenda. They're highly controversial. Mrs Vos says: As far as we are concerned, it is allowed. We believe, however, that it is essential to take a closer look at this before the process is set in motion. Does Mrs Vos think that the review of these sites should take place next year, or does she say: Move the goat, achieve as much as possible as quickly as possible, and when everything is in place, we will look again at whether they were sensible decisions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u30	In my opinion, it's something else in terms of time. For now, the Borssele location is the first to be discussed. We have to go through with that. My group does not need that review. Now it is mainly about the cost element at the locations off the Dutch coast. A location there at a larger distance, at 22 kilometers, is very much more expensive than a location at 18.5 kilometers. That is why we can well imagine that the Minister would prefer the location at 18.5 kilometres. My group agrees with that. If it becomes clear in a few years' time that it can be cheaper, that it can be otherwise and that it can be met with a number of objections, then we have nothing against it. Let us look at this when new data will come. Then everyone, including the Minister, will be free to revisit the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u31	Above all, I hear that Mrs Vos wants that evaluation when the matter is finished. I think that's a repeat of the Fyra debacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u32	Mr Flierman is doing something very strange right now. We are talking today about a system and not at all about locations. I am very much in favour of this system. The strength of this system, Mr Flierman, also wants us to be able to build winds at sea quickly, efficiently and as cost-effectively as possible. The big problem with wind at sea is that we think it is quite expensive. The Minister responds to this system. I think that is extremely sensible. So let us start with that, but no one is deaf to interim new arguments or new insights. This bill doesn't block that at all. It can be reviewed at any time during the process to see if there is any other way. In fact, that's my plea. Mr Flierman is in favour of carrying out an evaluation first and then moving forward, but I am not in favour of that. I would say, "Let's get started." I have another question about the law STROOM, because these wind farms at sea and many other things can only be realised once the law STROOM comes into force. That law regulates, inter alia, the role of network operator TenneT, which will build the cables and platforms at sea. Without cables and platform, those windmills are no use to us. The distribution of the costs of the network will also be regulated in the STROOM Act. For the companies that are going to build and exploit wind at sea, these are crucial elements. Without clarity and certainty, companies will not be prepared to commit themselves to the construction and operation of wind at sea under agreed and fixed conditions. Companies will not offer on a tender without clarity about these conditions. Businesses should also be able to count on the timely construction of the networks. The law has now been submitted to the Lower House but when does the Minister expect to submit the law to the Upper Chamber? How does the Minister look at the resistance of large consumers to contribute to the financing of the offshore wind grid? Surely it will not be the case that small consumers pay for all the costs? Households already pay far more energy taxes than large consumers. They also pay for things that are of no use to them themselves, such as what we call the weed tax, the costs of illegal tapping, the Aldel tax, the reduction of the network tariff for large consumers, and for any internal lines of large companies. What is more, there is no need for the large-scale consumers to be spared from the cost of building the wind grid at sea? Does the Minister intend to ensure that the position of small consumers does not deteriorate further relative to that of large consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u33	Mrs Vos just asked me if it was true that we were talking about the Wind at sea law, while I made comments about the realisation of wind energy in a general sense. I understand that Mrs Vos has already opened the debate on the STROOM Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u34	Mr Flierman is right to ask me this question. Thus, a justified interruption, but the STROOM Act regulates a number of crucial things for the later turning of those windmills at all and for getting certainty from investors. I am therefore very interested in the answers to these questions. The Wind Energy at Sea Act is closely linked to the Sustainable Energy Grant Scheme, SDE+, which compensates for the difference between the cost of electricity via wind at sea and the electricity price in the market. The smaller the difference, the lower the subsidy. The subsidy will never exceed a fixed ceiling per kWh. The Energy Agreement agreed that the wind sector would achieve a cost reduction of 40%. The permit for a wind farm goes to the company that makes the cheapest registration. This system forces cost reduction. My group welcomes that. In reply to questions from the First Chamber, questions from Mr Flierman, the cabinet indicated that it expects to grant more than 8 billion for wind at sea in the period 2019 to 2038. This is considerably lower than the 12 billion the cabinet previously assumed. I'd like an explanation from the Minister. So far the Minister has not been very enthusiastic about the plans for a joint network of power cables, a North Sea grid, by the joint North Sea countries. We regret that because precisely such a North Sea grid offers opportunities for connection of wind farms at sea, now and in the future. That could give a huge boost to wind at sea. Now TenneT continues a power cable in the North Sea to Denmark, but wind farms in the North Sea are simply passed and not connected. More coordination and joint action would help greatly. Is the Minister prepared to commit himself to this? Some question the choice of a large long-term investment in wind at sea. They talk about an outdated technique, too expensive. I want to fight that strongly. As the General Court of Auditors, the Planning Office for the Environment, and the ECN indicate, wind at sea is necessary to achieve the renewable energy targets in 2020 and 2023. Wind at sea will have to deliver as much as 35% of the additional share of renewable energy needed to achieve the 2020 target, and by 2023 even 45% of the additional share that we still have to achieve will have to come from wind at sea. There is no alternative, because with all other techniques, such as sun, wind on land, geothermal energy, and biomass, we have to get everything out of the closet. It's and, and, and, and, and. It's all hands on deck with all available techniques. Anyone who assumes that solar energy can replace wind at sea must realize that if we do everything we can, sun-pv in 2023 can deliver up to 5% of the share of renewable energy in 2023. Wind on land and at sea will deliver four times as much. New forms such as tidal energy, particularly interesting ones, we must certainly continue to be far too expensive for a very long time. Scenarios for 2015 show that the target to reduce C0 emissions by 80 to 95% is only possible with a large share of wind at sea and wind on land for 2050. And, and so. This brings me to the question of how the Minister is working to increase the level of support for land-based wind and how he will simplify the authorisation of wind cooperatives. It is precisely these cooperatives that provide support for the population. I'd like a response. But to return to the wind at sea and the law ahead: Who wants to wait until there is a better and cheaper technique, can wait a long time and is in fact putting necessary decisions and investments on hold. This kind of reasoning has led us to be in the most embarrassing place in the broom car of renewable energy in Europe. Now it is high time to move forward with full force, for the sake of the viability of the earth, for people now and in the future, here and there, for animals and plants, biodiversity and nature. GroenLinks will support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u35	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations from the VVD group to Mrs Meijer for her maiden speech and to Mr Pijlman and Mr Dercksen in advance. Much has already been said about this: this proposal provides an integral legal framework for the designation of locations for offshore wind farms and the issue of permits for the construction and operation of these wind farms. This can start the preparation for a net at sea. In this sense, the VVD Group has read this proposal as a preparatory act, which regulates both the physical and the procedural infrastructure for the construction of wind farms at sea, in which TenneT is given an important role. The actual construction of the network, as well as the choice of location within the areas already identified in the National Water Plan, will therefore not be dealt with in this proposal, but will be dealt with later. Among other things, the STROOM Act will clarify this. At least that's our interpretation. I hope the Minister can confirm that. I ask the question when the STROOM Act will be in this Chamber and which choices must be made. I would like to add my voice to the CDA Group's questions and comments: would the Minister like to outline the longer term developments, policy choices, the moments of evaluation and possible adjustments? One of the objectives of this law, as Mr Vos said, is to cut costs compared to the current situation. But to the questions we have asked about this, the Minister replied that it is not or very difficult to link a sum to that. I'd like to hear more about that. The energy agreement clearly agreed on the 40% reduction in costs. Can the Minister state that it is fair to say that this law has an overall share of it? Also in the VVD group there are questions about the future of wind energy in relation to other new techniques for the generation of renewable energy. These have already been discussed. By the time the parks stand and function, the question is whether the parks are still needed or whether they are already obsolete by new technology. Is our network sufficiently intelligent and forward-looking for these technological developments? Isn't it a long-term desinvestment that only disturbs the landscape and our beautiful coastline? With regard to wind energy, there are only two tastes: for or against, necessary or unnecessary, beautiful or ugly. Above all, the question arises as to whether the social and financial costs are in balance with the benefits. The public debate on the expansion of wind energy and, above all, on the choice of location on land and sea is under way. The position paper of the Dutch coastal communities showed this last week. However, the VVD Group has chosen to refrain from taking these considerations at this time and would like to consider them longer and more intrusive at a later date, if possible when dealing with the STROOM Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u36	Just ma'am postulates the theorem...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u37	Mrs. Huijbregts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u38	I have 75 new names to learn; don't blame me. You posted the theorem that you can be for or against wind energy. I wonder what the VVD Group's answer to that question is. Is she for or against wind energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u39	I would just point out that we would like to keep that consideration at another time, probably in the treatment of the STROOM Act. This isn't happening right now. We'll go along with this prep bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u40	Yes, but this law of preparation paves the way to begin with 18 billion winds at sea. If the answer to the VVD Group is that it is not for wind energy, then we have the opportunity to say today that we are not in favour of wind energy. You have that opportunity, but by not doing so, you say you are actually in favour of wind energy, in this case for wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u41	Mr Dercksen has not yet spoken his maiden speech, but I can almost predict what his question will be like at the moment. We thank the Minister for his comprehensive and clear answer in the report, both to the VVD Group and, above all, to the other groups. Many questions have been clarified for us, but at the same time the need for a broader debate has grown.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u42	Mr. Chairman. By the way, I would not mind at all if there was an interruption. In fact, I am very much in favour of that. Let me start by saying that I am standing here with a sense of pride. I am proud to be in the oldest parliament building still in use, as I understood from the Registrar last week. I am also proud to speak in this Chamber, which breathes history, and in particular to speak for the Party for Freedom, the only party still cherishing Dutch history with all its achievements. While the Dutch landscape is being destroyed by windmills at a high rate and on a large scale, while nature is being affected and the habitat for many inhabitants is severely disturbed, while the value of homes of neighbors of windmills is falling, this cabinet comes with the wind energy law at sea, carrying the law subsidy to the sea. That at a time when the absurdity of wind energy is being discovered in many countries and wind plans are being delayed or stopped. This law is the result of the energy agreement, an agreement signed by Jan and alleman, except by the people who will soon be able to pay it, who will be billed: the Dutch households. Over the years, they will be able to pay many hundreds of euros a year more for the flow of subsidies. This cabinet even performed to sign this energy agreement without even knowing what it would cost. Economics was obviously already abolished, even before GroenLinks could seriously interfere. The agreement was inspired by Brussels, which expects us to generate so-called renewable energy, because the thinking has taken into account that the climate is one-dimensionally dependent on CO emissions. That while the Earth cooled down in history after higher concentrations of CO and warmed up at lower concentrations than we have now. The temperature has also been stable for the past eighteen and a half years. It's true: Bureau NOAA had to adjust the hard data to cover that break in the temperature rise again. The facts therefore seem irrelevant to this law. There is a CO trading emission system: additional taxation on fossil energy. If less is emitted in the Netherlands, the price drops and the price of the rights goes down and the Romanians and Bulgarians buy the rights to another lignite power station. The result is zero point zero according to the Central Planning Bureau. But with this law, the facts don't seem to matter. The PVV is not a subsidy, as we know. Suppose I go along with the almost religious approach that CO matters seriously, while there is now knowledge that the climate is less sensitive to CO than was previously thought. The question is then: I heard Mr Flierman from the CDA Group ask whether the use of this 18 billion is the most effective way of reducing CO. Wouldn't it be more effective to isolate? Wouldn't it be more effective to invest in cogeneration? We know the answers, but I'd like to hear from the Minister if it's really been sorted out, not by Vestas or Eneco, but by independent experts. Or is thinking so enjoined that so-called renewable energy is now an end in itself? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. The Minister wanted to reduce the cost of wind energy at sea by 40%, through more efficient mills and cheaper construction. Part of that reduction, 3 billion, is now realized by state-owned company TenneT, exclusively by ordering this company to carry out the offshore connections. Normally this is a part, but above all a responsibility, of the wind merchants, the producers of those wind farms. Without knowing exactly what these parties would charge for a tender, we will of course never know for sure whether the cost reduction that is now being calculated is correct. By giving TenneT this work, the Minister also places the responsibility at TenneT to land the electricity instead of the producers. That's not without risk. This turned out to be in Germany. TenneT had to connect, among other things, the windmill park BARD 1. It was 80 windmills, but that power didn't come ashore for a year. There were failures, problems, fires in switchboxes and you name it. The mills had to be kept talking with diesel for a year in order not to let them rust away. How durable is that? If the same problems, namely that this power does not come ashore by TenneT, arise soon off the Dutch coast, the producers, the wind merchants, will want their subsidy, while TenneT is responsible for not landing the power. TenneT, that's us, the Dutch households, the Dutch taxpayers. How does the Minister prevent TenneT from having to bear those costs? I'd like to get a reaction to this. What exactly do these windmills generate in electricity? Science has put a lot of questions into that. What do we get in return for this 18 billion grant? Let us not forget that there is already a pot of 5 billion subsidies for existing wind farms at sea. Scientists collected the data from the wind farms that are very similar to those from the energy agreement. How much kilowatt-hour is now produced net? There are considerable energy losses. Firstly, there are wind power surpluses, peaks in wind power that are lost without large-scale storage or export capacity. The more wind farms, the higher the peaks and the greater the losses. We also recognise this in the German situation. Germany gives peaks of electricity almost free away to neighbouring countries, also to the Netherlands, because otherwise it can't get rid of the power. The German Henk and Ingrid, Günther und Heidi, pay the bill. They pay the highest energy bill in Europe. That's power loss. Secondly, there are the existing power plants. They have to stand by or catch the fluctuations. Because we want power out of the socket all day long. There are major efficiency and energy losses and so there is also more emissions from power plants. Thirdly, the production of mills, parks and their maintenance, including infrastructure, obviously costs a lot of energy. In other words, the electricity generated by windmills costs a lot of energy and the net yield may be very low. Scientists calculated that only 31% net of the generated current remains, at best. So about 70% of the power is lost, but with 18 billion subsidies. Apparently, the facts don't really matter. The Minister wrote to these scientists that his theoretical models are better than the facts. In fact, the minister says: away with science; away with scientists; live the Green Church. As Mr Flierman said, the comparison with the Fyra is pressing. The train was only tested and tested from behind a desk and not in practice. Let that be a warning. I try and ask the Minister if he is prepared to monitor the net output of the wind farms at sea. I think Gemini is the first park to become operational. So I'm talking about data: measuring is knowing. Is the Minister prepared to answer to all those households who have to put that money on the table? Will this money be used effectively and efficiently? Or should we wait for a parliamentary committee of inquiry? I sincerely hope not. I'd like to get a reaction to this. There is sufficient energy available. Oil and gas prices are falling on the world market. They don't do that because oil and gas are so incredibly scarce. There is still energy for many hundreds of years. We don't need wind power at all. Every euro invested in excess capacity, because that is what it is, is wasted money. As long as unsustainable forms of energy are subsidised, it inhibits the development of energy that is profitable and sustainable. Because why invest in energy innovation as an investor when you can collect free Dutch tax money from the minister? This subsidy is death in the pot for innovation. You cannot unpunished knock 18 billion out of the Dutch household wallet, for a poor 3% of our national energy consumption. This law is therefore a sledgehammer for Dutch households. They can pay the bill. The law is a sledgehammer for the Dutch economy, for SMEs. It destroys prosperity and jobs, later in the tourist towns along the coast facing a new iron curtain. In order to prevent all these people from holding a consultative referendum, this fact-free law had to be rushed through the Upper Chamber. I'm rounding up. I've been sworn in to this house almost a week now. It is hardly conceivable that in the next four years more laws will be passed that will be even more disastrous for the Dutch economy and for Dutch households. That's a sad conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u43	Madam President. The wind's gonna blow from another corner. It is an honor to have a maiden speech in the middle of this Chamber about the bill wind at sea. Few people inside and outside this Chamber will not be aware that the dependence of fossil fuels on our energy economy needs to be greatly reduced. The Netherlands is not at the forefront of this. We've become too used to Groningen natural gas fields, which seemed inexhaustible. Moreover, we did not see any social disadvantages in the extraction of natural gas. That's what we're facing in Groningen. With the many gas revenues we mainly built up the welfare state. Wind at sea can make an important contribution to making our society more sustainable. That's why we're doing it. In addition, it can contribute to strengthening our offshore industry, which will need to make use of innovative processes. That could create thousands of new jobs. But there are also disadvantages. The cost is high. The windmills can only run with a lot of public money first. At the same time, we need to weigh public spending against the cost of fossil fuels. These are often hidden in environmental and environmental damage, which is higher and higher and threatening. This bill is an elaboration of the Energy Agreement, in which it was agreed that the Cabinet would create a framework to allow the scaling-up of wind at sea. The starting point of the proposal is that wind farms can only be built at locations designated in lot decisions, which are in turn designated in the National Water Plan. In the preparation of a lot decision, the environmental impact assessment will then be drawn up. Although the wind farms are built at a long distance from the coast, there has been unrest in the coastal municipalities about the locations to be designated. Will the Minister inform us of the way in which the interests of the tourist-recreational sector are weighed against an approach that allows wind energy at an acceptable price? This is particularly true when it is left open that it is in principle possible to create wind farms between ten and twelve nautical miles. It should be possible to make cost-benefit analysis in order to minimise the economic damage to the tourist-recreational sector. The Van Veldhoven/Agnes Mulder motion adopted in the Lower House calls for this analysis. We understand that a procedure will be followed in the 2016-2021 National Water Plan to potentially create two small locations within the twelve-mile zone, so that there will be clustering of sight locations. We urge that all alternatives be examined and the results of the research made public before the design is made available for inspection. I would like a response from the Minister on this point. It is good that the Minister is speeding up the roll-out of the plans, so that the first tenders can be registered as early as this year. Is it true that this year a tender will be issued for two 350 MW parks? Although the Minister is now accelerating, several parties, including the General Court, point out that it will be extremely difficult for our country to meet the sustainability targets for 2020 and 2023. That is a matter of great concern to the D66 Group. We cannot afford to fall further and further behind. Our environment and our society deserve better. Moreover, it is damaging to our international standing. Those who are realistic know that additional measures are now needed in a variety of areas. In addition to wind energy, solar energy, biomass and geothermal energy, energy saving should be given much more priority. In addition, we expect initiatives from the government, including in the STROOM legislative process, which not only give the energy giants the space, but also rewards citizens when they produce and supply renewable energy. For us, the 'people in power' principle is the real liberalisation of the energy market. In doing so, citizens and businesses themselves produce energy and deliver it to each other at normal rates by using the energy infrastructure. Combined with the innovative strength of SMEs, this can create new products, services and jobs. Knowing that we are lagging behind the sustainability objectives, we would also like the cabinet to develop the scenarios to be fossil-free by 2050. What is the government going to do to achieve the sustainability objectives and not lose them in the coming years? What new policies is the Minister preparing? The D66 Group expects the Minister to include greening initiatives in the plans for a new tax system. We would like to hear his reaction; it would be a nice scoop. Optimism is good but realism is better to achieve results. In his optimistic expectations, the Minister assumes that by 2024 40% reduction in costs can be achieved through policy and technical innovations. For my group, it is unclear what that 40% is based on. My group would also like to know what part of the cost reduction the government is responsible for. For the D66 Group, this is an unclear element in the proposals, to which we would like to hear the Minister's response. The cabinet assumes that the lead time for the construction of wind farms at sea is four years. Given the experience elsewhere, this would really be a policy innovation. What is this optimism based on? In other words, can the Minister outline to us the process and the lead time of the realization and delivery of the parks? In the four years outlined by the Minister, has TenneT also included the realization of the grid connection? The Ministry assumes that after the award of the projects companies do not withdraw from it, but current practice learns differently. What is this optimism based on? On average, the current SDE and SDE+ projects account for 26% less than the theoretical ceiling to which the Minister refers every time he talks about the goal-realisation. Is this based optimism or a lack of realism? It should be avoided that production peaks of wind energy lead to overloading of the electricity grid, which means that green electricity must be sold cheaply to neighbouring countries, as is the case in Germany on a regular basis. Does the Minister also see this as a real scenario for the Netherlands? Are we capable of storing wind energy and thus compensating for the quiet days so that we can achieve the maximum ecological and financial return? Does the cabinet intend to invest in storage? Those who consider the Wind Energy Bill at sea quickly come to the conclusion that a European energy policy is necessary so that international and coherent considerations can also be made. A joint Energy Union is desirable for several reasons: from a geopolitical, economic and environmental point of view. Moreover, the wind does not abide by borders either. What steps is the government taking to integrate the planned wind energy efforts into a desired European framework? Last week, the leaders of the G7 met in Elmau, where they clearly put sustainability back on the agenda. It's going too slowly and our ambitions have to rise, was the message. The same applies to the Netherlands. Sustainable energy management is a prerequisite for healthy economic growth! Mr President, with interest the D66 Group awaits the Minister's response to our questions and comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u44	Madam President. I would like to begin by congratulating and congratulating the spokesmen who made their maiden speech today, namely Mrs Meijer, Mr Dercksen and Mr Pijlman. If stories of this kind continue in the coming years in the interaction between the First Chamber and the Government, then I think we can look forward to a bright future. I also congratulate the spokesmen on having the opportunity to make their maiden speech today. I think that others in the groups have looked at this with some jealousy, because it is nice if after such a first day you can participate fully in everything and not have to give a little snag at your maiden speech. So it's a festive day for them and for all of us today. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its willingness to deal with this bill today. Unlike Mr Flierman for a moment, it is not true that we are doing this to try to get out of a referendum; we are doing this because we are completely focused on achieving 14% of renewable energy by 2020 and 16% of renewable energy by 2023. Achieving that 14% by 2020, as many have said, including the Court of Auditors, is not self-evident. There's a lot to be done for that. The intentions you have, you actually have to realize. If a plan falls away, you won't make it 14% by 2020. An important part of my intentions is also the realisation of wind-on-sea capacity. That's what this bill is important for. On the basis of this bill, the further procedure can be completed in time to ensure that we can open the first tender in 2015 and run the first windmills at sea in the year 2019 as part of this new trajectory. That is why I said a year ago, both in writing and orally with the Second and the First Chambers, that I would like this law to enter into force on 1 July 2015. The fact that this is now possible is to a large extent thanks to the First Chamber which was willing to deal with this bill as soon as possible. I know that Mr Flierman's group has also contributed to this in its own way. I would then like to comment on the statements made by the leaders of the G7, the major countries of the world, with a few exceptions, who have come together to talk about a number of things, such as renewable energy. They have said that we must ensure that global warming is reduced to 2Celsius by the end of this century. We know that if there is not very strong intervention, by the end of this century, warming will be 3.5Celsius.The consequences for the earth are very profound, as has recently been outlined by the International Energy Agency. To realize that 2Celsius a lot has to be done. I am pleased that countries such as the United States of America now feel bound to do so and that they want to do so, namely no more than 2Celsius warming at the end of this century. Much remains to be done, especially by the United States of America. We in the Netherlands will also have a lot to do, but I would be happy if everything we go through in a few years' time, wind on land, wind at sea, geothermal energy, solar energy and fermentation, so all the initiatives we are taking now and that we are going to implement in the short term, would also be implemented by all those G7 countries. On the basis of the G7's statement I appreciate, I am not going to do anything extra, but I am very aware that with the objectives of 14% and 16% we are absolutely not there. The cabinet therefore has the ambition to have a fully sustainable energy system in an international context by the year 2050 and to make it reliable and affordable. We will be happy to go with all the other countries in the world, especially with the G7 in Paris later on, so that we can reach an agreement to achieve that objective. What we are discussing here today is an important contribution to this. There has often been talk of support. I think that has rightly been mentioned, but we all realise that the things that need to be done to achieve something nationally always have an additional impact in certain places in the country. The support you have at national level is not necessarily available in every place, because the balance between what some people are faced with in practice is not necessarily possible, while others may not be confronted with anything, and the national interest may be different. It is therefore important to consider the basis of acceptance at national level, to take responsibility for it and also to work towards regional acceptance. I will come back to that later. As far as national support is concerned, there are two important data for me. The first is the coalition agreement. There have been elections to the House of Representatives. The largest political parties came out together with a coalition agreement. They have set out the objectives we are talking about: 14% and 16%. The second point is the energy agreement. All the parties concerned, from the nature and environmental movement to electricity producers and in between 38 other parties, including organised employers and workers, have agreed that they want to achieve these objectives and that they all contribute to them. In this way, we have created an important support base. The energy agreement is in full swing. Some cited the Court's conclusions, which were critical of that point. The Court of Auditors based its criticism on an early draft of the Energy Report 2014. That draft could then be available to the Court of Auditors. This has been the basis of his conclusions, but a lot has happened since then. Over wind on land I made agreements with all provinces. With regard to the one province where this did not lead to unanimity or agreement, Friesland, I have assumed my own responsibility. I took the decision myself. This means that we have come a long way with wind on land. With wind at sea we have also come a lot further, because I took the direction there. I made the location choice myself. We'll do the tests ourselves. We've set the timeline. The subsidy system is available. The net at sea is arranged. The Law on wind energy at sea is now being discussed here in the First Chamber. This means that we are a lot further on this point too. If the bill is passed, at the end of this year we can realize the first tender for 2 x 350 megawatts in the Borssele area. In 2016 the next wind farm in the Borssele area can be realized. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, the other intended wind farms off the Dutch coast can then be realized. So a lot has happened since then. I've always kept my end of the bargain. I also intend to keep doing that, because a deal is a deal. As a daily director, it is my job to ensure that political ambitions and societal ambitions are achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u45	May I ask the Minister a small question for clarification? He says that the Dutch coast parks will be realized in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Does this also mean that the decision on the SDE grant, the lot decision and the grant decisions will be taken in those years? Or are they falling in before?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u46	Those decisions are more likely to fall. The public participation procedure for the National Water Plan will be completed on 21 June. This means that it can be adopted in September. The five areas off the coast, which are summarised in three clusters, namely Borssele, the South-Holland coast and the North-Holland coast, have been identified. There will be a revision of the National Water Plan, because we want to realize the Dutch coast, at the clustered locations, not only outside the 12 mile zone but also between 10 and 12 miles of windmills. That change will be decided at a later date. I can say in advance that the decision on whether or not windmills are actually being carried out between 10 and 12 miles has yet to be taken. That will also happen in an orderly manner. It is done in such a way that these parks can be realised so that they can contribute to the 2020 and 2023 targets. This is a procedural law. The decision on the locations for the South and North Dutch coasts, in particular the section between the ten and twelve mile zone, takes place by amending the National Water Plan. The structural vision is then adjusted accordingly. In December of this year, the amendment of the National Water Plan will enter into proceedings. The adjustment of the structural vision will be in March next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u47	The next question is important for our consideration. I understand and recognise this procedure, but what is the time when irreversible decisions are being taken for wind farms off the Dutch coast, in the sense of granting subsidies and granting permits for the realization of parks? Are these decisions taken before or after a discussion on the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u48	That will only be after the moment of accord. Let us assume that this will happen and that windmills will be realized between the ten and twelve mile range. First, the site procedure will be conducted in an orderly manner and the amendment of the National Water Plan will be implemented. It is only after that that the case can become final, and not before that. I will come back to the exact dates when I come to Mr Flierman's specific questions. Mr. Chairman. It might also be good to realize what we are doing about the size of the Wind Energy project at Sea. We already have windmills in place right now. The windmills closest to the coast are six miles away. Our plan now is that the windmills will be at a distance of ten miles and beyond. We have windmills under construction. The total of what is now and what is under construction is 1,000 megawatts. There's another 3,500 megawatts due to what's now in your room. If all this has been achieved, we have covered 3.1% of the total Dutch energy consumption. We sometimes talk fairly easily about the transition from 4.5% to 5% at present to 14% in 2020 and 16% in 2023. But do you realize that the entire project Wind Energy at Sea, what is there, what is added and what can be added on the basis of today's project is 4,500 megawatts worth 3,1% of the total Dutch energy consumption. This is 15% of the total electricity consumption in the Netherlands. If you turn to households, the total electricity consumption of 5 million households in the Netherlands will be covered by windmills that will be operating off the Dutch coast in 2023. So that's the size of the project we're working on. Maybe I can go into what Mr Dercksen said in this connection. He said wind farms at sea are delayed or stopped. That's a misunderstanding. Let's look at the countries around us. I have already indicated that in 2023 the Netherlands will go to 4,500 megawatts. Germany now has 916 megawatts and wants to reach 6,500 megawatts in 2020. Denmark now has 1,268 megawatts and wants to reach 2,750 megawatts by 2020. The UK now has 4,259 megawatts and wants to reach 10,000 megawatts by 2020. You can see that there is a rapid growth of wind at sea. In the Netherlands too, we intend to do so. Other countries, such as Japan, China and Korea, are also working on wind at sea. In those countries, too, we like to work with us. We also like to work with these countries to see how we can help each other and what we can achieve together. The parks that we are about to realize on the basis of the proposal before us in the Chamber, if the proposal is adopted, relate to three clustered sites, five plots of 700 megawatts each. Two items of 350 megawatts are published at Borssele this year. So companies can register on 350 megawatts but they can also register on both lots of 350 megawatts and then in total for 700 megawatts. Next year another 700 megawatts will be available. After that, it'll go on for another three years. I have already said that I have taken control of this system. The bill regulates the possibility of the new system. This makes the procedure possible. In addition, it is stipulated that wind farms should not be outside the designated wind areas. Those designated wind energy areas are in the National Water Plan. That's already there. That's in procedure. At the moment it is in the participation but it will be closed soon. The adoption will take place at the end of this year. The amendment will then be discussed. The wind farms must be in there. You can't go out there. It is important to do so because there are many other interests in the North Sea. I mention the importance of defence, for example, but there are also areas where sand is extracted. The most important thing about the North Sea is that it is almost, or perhaps entirely, the busiest stretch of sea in the whole world and that the shipping routes must be maintained. Those shipping routes have been subject to extensive international negotiations over the last five years. The whole procedure has been conducted internationally. In 2013, therefore, very recently, the shipping routes have been recorded. We must respect them. We cannot place windmills in the ship's routes. That brings me to the reason why we need a piece of between ten and twelve mileage. The reason relates to the shipping routes. In order to reduce costs, it is important that we standardize. It's part of a translation. That's five times 700 megawatts. That's also the amount of megawatts Tennet can handle with the power plant on it for connection to the country. You can't realize that 700 megawatts off the South and North Dutch coasts without going for a piece within the twelve mile zone. The reason why we are proposing to go within that 12-mile radius is that we no longer have room at the back because we are in the shipping routes. The designation of offshore wind energy areas is not regulated in this legislative proposal. We do not regulate the funding either, because this is done in the context of the SDE+ and the grant tender that applies to it. We also do not designate Tennet as the network manager in the bill. This is done in the law STROOM which we submitted to the Dutch Parliament on 4 May 2015. Mrs Vos and Mrs Huijbregts asked when that bill would be submitted to the Upper House. I wish I could say that. Mrs Huijbregts probably already knows my answer. If it's up to me, that bill will be in the First Chamber very soon. The House of Representatives has begun the written procedure. That Chamber is very motivated, just like this Chamber, to ensure progress, so I expect the bill to be followed up fairly soon after the summer recess. I will do my best to speed up the procedure so that the bill can be sent quickly to this Chamber but I cannot give the exact date yet. I am in the hands of the House of Representatives. The tender for the first windmills realized off the coast of Borssele, twice 350 megawatts, together 700, opens at the end of this year. The 700 megawatts published next year via a tender are expected to open in October 2016. Of these two clusters, a total of 1400 megawatts, they are supposed to be running by 2020. This is absolutely necessary in order to achieve my 2020 target. The other tenders will contribute to the objective for 2023. Maybe I can also say something about the cost of the different parks. Two alternatives have been mentioned instead of the current locations, Borssele, Holland's Coast Zuid-Holland and Holland's Coast Noord-Holland. Those two alternatives are IJmuiden Ver and Over the Wadden Islands. For IJmuiden Ver, the ECN calculated the cost at 15.7 cents per kilowatt hour. For Above the Wadden Islands 15.5 cents per kilowatt hour is calculated. The two parks off the Dutch coast have a price of 13.3 and 13.6 cents per kilowatt hour. This means that the further parks are considerably more expensive. I also see it as my responsibility to ensure that we control the high costs. So if it can be cheaper in a responsible way, I think we should do so. That is also the basis of the proposal I made to the Chamber. It is not true that we had to come up with calculations as to whether IJmuiden Ver would be financially interesting. In the Lower House it was thought that IJmuiden Ver could be at the same price as the parks off the Dutch coast. At that time I indicated that I would wait for the calculation and that I would give industry the opportunity to clarify that. But I didn't get anything from the industry. I then asked, but then I got the answer that there would be no data that would support that statement. This means that IJmuiden Ver is considerably more expensive than what we are going to achieve off the Dutch coast. It is true that we may also need those locations in the future, because we will not be there by 2023. I refer to 2050 and to the statement of the G7, which I hope will be fulfilled. There will also be additional tasks after 2023. In the meantime, costs are expected to decrease as a result of experience and innovation. This means that in the future, if possible, the IJmuiden Ver and Over the Wadden Islands will be lower than those currently in use. Right now, it's not wise to look at those locations because they're going to cost too much money. The timetable for the roll-out of wind at sea reflects what we agreed in the energy agreement, even a little more than that, because there is an acceleration in relation to the energy agreement. I think that's a good thing. We all have an interest in this happening. Mrs Vos also spoke about the existing permits. Before I go into the points raised by the spokesmen, I can say something about that. I have not lightly ignored the existing permits. At the time, we had the system that, in order to participate in a grant allocation, you had to have a permit first. There were nine licences, but there were only two locations for which a grant could be promised. So there were seven licences left that were of no use. The House of Representatives thought that those permits should remain. That's what happened. It was contrary to the procedure agreed at the time, but forward. Now I was faced with the question of what to do with those permits. If I had honored it, we would not have been able to make the most of the five locations bundled in three clusters in a place that keeps costs as low as possible because the original permits would take pieces out of that location. Then you would get a small number of windmills at a location where more windmills could come. Due to the fact that this small number of windmills had already been realized, the large whole could no longer be achieved cost-effectively. It would be financially very unfavourable to allow those licences to exist. In addition, these licences are based on the technique of the past. In the meantime, the technique has moved on, so those permits should be adjusted in any case. That too would have led to delays. So there would be higher costs, less possibility of achieving wind at sea and delay. The sector has had the opportunity to come forward with a proposal. That proposal was made, but it did not meet the conditions. Then I had to make the decision to cancel those permits. In the meantime, I have also settled it with the companies concerned. I also dealt with this issue in the House of Representatives. As far as I am concerned, the existing licences are now out of the picture. I turn to the questions and comments raised by the various spokesmen. It is good to start with Mr Flierman. I have already dealt with one of his points. That was about the referendum and the choice of dates. I hope I've made that clear. Mr Flierman spoke about the G7. I have already dealt with that. Mr Flierman indicated that he wanted to evaluate sustainability policy earlier than in 2016. I want to keep my end of the bargain. If you have concluded an energy agreement with 40 parties, if you have also received support for it in the Lower House, if you act in accordance with the coalition agreement, these are very important anchor points for your policy. I don't want to deviate from that. I have agreed that we will evaluate in 2016. So I don't do that in 2017 or 2015. What does happen is this. In our National Energy Exploratory 2015, which will be published in October, we will see if there are any bottlenecks and shortages towards our goals. If that's the case, I'll start explorations to see how we can react if those deficits impact in 2016. I will involve the outcome of the explorations in the review in 2016 in order to then see what we need to do in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. Mr. Flierman asked about a business case for the offshore windmills.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u49	To clarify and anticipate the second deadline, the following. The Minister says: if the National Energy Exploratory results in shortages, so that we are going to generate less sustainable energy than we aim for, I will start looking for alternatives. Is he going to look separately at whether the development of technology and everything related to it opens up a perspective on alternatives? This is my first question. My second question is as follows. An evaluation was agreed in 2016. 2016 is a whole year, which is a long period, certainly related to the decision-making that we mentioned earlier on the National Water Plan and its revision. When will the Minister expect the evaluation in 2016?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u50	I cannot indicate exactly when the evaluation will be in 2016. I think this is something that needs to be clarified for Mr Flierman and the entire Upper House. I will therefore exchange a time schedule for the evaluation with the First Chamber. With regard to alternatives and innovation, the following: There's no one on top of innovation like we do. We have the top energy sector from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In this top sector, a separate knowledge unit is working on renewable energy. We're following everything that's going on. We're trying to stimulate developments that are very promising. We're trying to get new ideas going. Extra money has been allocated for this and more money will be available for that. So I'm very interested in alternatives. But take it from me that it is absolutely certain that we will not be able to achieve the 2020 target and the 2023 target if we do not achieve a strong wind capacity on land and at sea. Failure to realise the windmills on land and, today in the debate, the windmills at sea, immediately means releasing the 2020 and 2023 targets. You can't realize that. It may be that there will be things that are cheaper and that are different in some time, but they will certainly not have all their impact in 2020 and 2023. This means that what we are already lagging behind, as a number of spokesmen said, will continue to lag behind. Then we are directly at odds with our own intentions, directly contrary to the relevant European Union directive, which we have also implemented, and directly contrary to the spirit of what the G7 has agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u51	At present, wind on land and wind at sea is an absolute necessity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u52	What the government and the PVV differ quite a bit about is the idea that there would be a form of urgency. We do not see that urgency directly, because there is still a lot of energy available over the next 100 years. The G7 has determined that 2°C with a kind of wet finger. I heard a scientist yesterday about where that 2°C came from. It's a number that's started living its own life. The whole international component, with China and India and the population explosion in Africa, obviously has a much greater impact than the percentage of renewable energy we have here. The question I would like to ask is as follows. There are tremendously good developments in the area of thorium. Why are such developments not simply covered by renewable energy? It is an emission-free form of energy that is available in all countries with which we maintain friendly relations. If you see how science is developing now, it is also available at the time when the mills at sea, which we are discussing now, are going to run. Why doesn't the cabinet give more priority to these kinds of energy, which are demand-driven? In other words: if we need power, we turn on the power station; so we don't just get power at the moment it blows. Why doesn't the cabinet focus more on such forms of energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u53	Thorium is not an alternative. There is currently no thorium plant and it will not be possible within a limited number of years. Thorium might be something for the long term. That would be wonderful. If alternatives become available, that's very nice. The windmills are built and subsidised for a period of 15 years. We must go to 2030, to 2050 and also to the end of this century. At some point there can be quite different possibilities. That is beautiful, and we must make the most of it. But I am not going to abandon our 2020 and 2023 targets on the basis of the word "thorium" and possible expectations you have for the future. You may not find these objectives interesting, because you believe that there is enough fossil energy available. Yes, we also know that there is enough fossil energy available. But the result has been internationally determined by the United Nations in a very, very careful way, and by the International Energy Agency in Paris, also in a very careful way. The result of that fossil energy is constant global warming. The energy agency in Paris says that if we do nothing but continue on the course we are currently in, at the end of this century 3.5°C has been added. We do a few things, but if we don't do any more, that's the case. The representative of the Energy Agency says that if we get into that situation, we won't know the Earth as we do now. It is very wise to start at that 2°C, which has emerged from all the international UN survey work and which is now also embraced by the G7, including the United States of America. You may be of the opinion that this is not the case and therefore reject all the measures taken in the field of renewable energy, but I am glad that other groups think differently and that we are doing the things that I believe are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u54	The G7 may stand on its head, but the Chinese government will not decide not to supply its growing population with energy. In Asia, in India, coal power stations are being opened on an almost daily basis, whether we like them or not. We can agree on an objective here, either with the G7 or in the UN or at EU level, but the Chinese Government is not really going to put its own citizens in the dark and in the cold. I would like to continue to draw attention to this, because CO emissions are going to double in this millennium, in this century, whether we want it or not. Whether we produce one percent more or less sustainable, that will not affect the total emissions of human beings in the world. I'm standing here and actually pleading for thorium one more time. The Minister says that this is not available for the time being, that it is for the long term, but the first pilot plants will run within a period of five years. That is a period in which the windmills in the North Sea are only just being stimulated; that is not in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u55	I'd be happy to repeat that question. Thorium is not for the long term. At a time of five to ten years, the plants are operational and we can use nuclear waste as fuel. Who could be against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u56	In five to ten years there will be no thorium plants. If a pilot plant were to run in five years, that would be wonderful. We'll see what the results are. That needs to be looked at for a number of years. It will then be possible to start making plans for producing plants. This will also take five to six years. I hope that, over a period of 15 to 20 years, thorium will be able to make a contribution. By the way, it's not like we're talking about a percent more or less here. I don't know where Mr Dercksen gets that from. At present, between 4.5% and 5% of energy is sustainable; by 2020 it should be 14%, by 2023 16% and by 2050 a fully sustainable energy supply in the international context. At the end of this century, we want to achieve the situation in which we can limit the development that is going on in terms of warming to 2°C. This will already have a lot of consequences, and all kinds of measures will have to be taken. Mr Dercksen says that the G7 can be turned upside down. However, I think it is very important that if we are faced with an international problem, the big countries in the world recognise the seriousness of that problem and agree on an objective for it. That's very helpful, which is very helpful in finding a solution. The Chinese government is well aware of what is going on. It has established that there is a certain year of "s' there is talk of 2030 "s' where an absolute peak in CO reduction has to be achieved. Despite the prosperity growth China needs to catch up with other parts of the world, especially Europe and America, the country will have to move in the other direction. This is a new sound in China that certainly contributes to the optimism we need to realise the great challenge we face, the transition to renewable energy. Perhaps this is the right time to note that we have built together a production capacity for fossil energy: there are gas plants and coal plants to produce electricity, there is another nuclear power plant that produces electricity and in Germany there are lignite plants that produce electricity. If we do not want it anymore, for the reason I have just described, and we want to produce renewable energy instead, then the old existing capacity must be written off and investment in new capacity must be made. That costs money; that is certainly true. The transition from fossil energy to renewable energy costs money because new capacity needs to be built. That is a fact that is irrefutable, that everyone faces and for which the bill has to be paid. As far as paying that account is concerned, several developments are taking place. It is perhaps appropriate to mention this in advance in the direction of the SP spokesperson. The cost of the transition to renewable energy will be borne by citizens and businesses. This leads to an upward pressure on the electricity bill. However, as a result of developments in the gas and oil markets, electricity prices are falling. For the time being, this decline is much greater than the short-term increase. Several developments are taking place which are important for people on low incomes, which concerns their spending potential. In August, the cabinet presented these developments in terms of purchasing power and the ability to spend money, especially by low-income people, in budgetary treatment. Then we'll see how it works out and what measures are needed. Of course, energy costs, both positive and negative, are involved. I had stayed with Mr Flierman, who asked for a business case for the offshore windmills. We have noted that if we want to achieve this 14% and 16% target, we must make the most of all the possibilities that are now available. This means that we need those windmills at sea as much as we need the windmills on land, in the numbers that are currently being discussed here. Of course, it is conceivable that no windmills are placed at sea and all windmills are placed on land. However, the effects of the increase in the number of windmills on land, which extends to 6,000 MW, plus the 4,500 MW of sea would lead to unacceptable results for many. I therefore believe that it is a good thing that we have sought a balance between wind on land and wind at sea. We have looked very closely at this and weighed the costs, the ecological effects and the other effects. They are placed in a social cost-benefit analysis at national level. It has led to the proposals I have now made. I want to leave it at that. I don't want to make another business case apart from that national social cost-benefit analysis. Another thing is that we are going to take a look at the regional consequences for the coastal towns; the implementation of the Lower House motion that the spokesmen have already spoken about. I'm working on it right now. I will work out the possible negative effects on the area in relation to the importance of what we want to achieve with the windmills, according to the wishes of the House of Representatives. I expect to be able to conclude this by October of this year. Mr Flierman spoke about the fact that we are now going to realize these wind farms, which may not be needed anymore because there are better alternatives. I hope that Mr Flierman has now learned from me that we need to achieve this in order to achieve the commitments we have made, but that possible alternatives, more windmills at sea, further away, will all be covered if we continue along the path of 14% and 16% towards the target we will set for 2030, which will be in the order of 27%. Then comes the target for the year 2050. What we are doing now is necessary. There's still a lot going on. This will be very useful for all future follow-up actions. In our plan for Borssele, the second tender, for next year, a small innovation plot will be included so that companies will have the opportunity to try out new developments in the field of wind energy in practice. Of course we learn from the parks that have already been built; we learn from the parks that have been built in other countries for wind at sea and from the parks that we are now going to build in Borssele. We learn all the time. However, we will also work with a test park to gain additional experience. Mr Flierman specifically asked in relation to Borssele what we want to tender this year. The answer is two times 350 MW, a total of 700 MW, and another 700 MW next year. He asks: what is the total cost of subsidies? The answer is EUR 4.3 billion. It is good to say that to Mr Dercksen. Mr Dercksen has said four times that the cost of subsidies for 3,500 MW at sea is 18 billion. I think Dercksen knows very well that what he's saying is just not true. I have written to both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber that they are not 18 billion but 12 billion. So there is no point in saying "18 billion" every time. The PVV Group in the House of Representatives does the same; it constantly says "18 billion" when it knows that it is 12 billion. There is a grant of 8 billion to windmills and a maximum of 4 billion to the connection of TenneT on the mainland. TenneT's expenditure is estimated to amount to between 3 and 4 billion. This means that the total cost amounts to between 11 and 12 billion. That money will be spent in fifteen years, starting in 2019 as the first new windmills will run until 2034. During this period, the current estimates of grants totalling 11 to 12 billion will be used for this purpose. For that we get back, together with the 1,000 MW that is already there, that 5 million Dutch households get their electricity from wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u57	A few things. I understand the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u58	I'll do my best. We didn't make that 18 billion up all by ourselves. That is the cap that the Minister has, the maximum subsidy available. Perhaps it would be useful if, for example, Mr Samsom, who recently announced this on TV, also used the right numbers. If the Minister wants to impose on me that the maximum subsidy is 18 billion, that's right. But we'll have to wait and see. He said it himself: the price of energy is falling, the oil price is falling, the gas price is falling, so we are coming very quickly at the limit of the maximum subsidy available. He should not blame me for having to count on that scenario, because this is the maximum amount that households will soon have to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u59	No, it's not. Based on current insights as calculated by ECN, which has done very thorough work for this purpose, the total cost over a period of 15 years, starting in 2019, is between 11 and 12 billion. There's really no point in talking about 18 billion. Mr Flierman spoke about locations off the coast. I discussed the implementation of the Van Veldhoven/Agnes Mulder motion. I said that the regional cost-benefit effects will be reflected in October 2015. I've indicated what's going on with the shipping routes. I have confirmed that the final decision will only be taken after the partial revision of the Water Plan has been completed and the structural vision has been submitted to both Chambers, including the First Chamber, in early 2016. I hope that we now have some clarity about this. Mr Flierman pointed out that he saw energy saving as an alternative. I believe that energy saving is of the utmost importance. Compared to other countries, it is not bad at all what we have already done in the Netherlands about energy savings. We are ambitious for the future. We are currently working in the rental sector with zero-on-the-meter houses. Some people are already thinking about whether we should do something similar to buying houses. People in those rental homes pay less on their energy and a little more on rent. On balance, they pay the same amount, but the profit is that no energy is wasted in such a house. Of course, that's great; I'm calling the project Power Acceleration. I hope that we can achieve much more in this respect. We are ambitious with regard to the built environment, housing. We are ambitious in terms of industry. We have made agreements on this in covenants that are being tightened up. This energy saving, which is absolutely necessary, is on top of what we are going to do here. Energy savings cannot replace this. I think we should do this and save energy. I'd be happy to present that to you. I would like to receive your support for both: for energy saving and for achieving the objectives of renewable energy. Mr Flierman pointed out that the impact on employment was very important in this energy saving. That's right. We have calculated in the energy agreement that 15 000 full-time jobs will be added on balance. Mr Dercksen says that jobs are disappearing: the economy is being destroyed and employment destroyed. So that's not true. On the contrary, a very healthy basis is being laid under the economy of the future and additional jobs are being created, namely those 15,000 full-time jobs which, according to the calculations, are added as a result of the energy agreement. The energy saving measures certainly contribute to their realisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u60	Can the Minister explain to me in simple Dutch how it can create jobs, if a Dutch household has to pay much more for energy and therefore cannot spend its money on other matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u61	Sure. You make the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy and you're going to do energy savings. You don't accept that you're just gonna keep warming up the Earth, but instead you're gonna move on to something new. There's a lot to be done for that. A lot of investment needs to be made. The bills for these investments must be paid, but work must also be done to save energy, to develop, install and maintain solar panels, to install and maintain windmills and for everything that is happening in the field of renewable energy. We added that together. We have calculated the overall impact of the energy agreement on employment: 15,000 full-time jobs are added. Mr Dercksen says that jobs are being destroyed and that the economy is being affected, but that is not true. There will be a stronger and healthier basis for the economy and jobs will be created.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u62	It's gonna be a semantic discussion. A Spanish university has calculated that a sustainable job will destroy 1.2 regular jobs. The Minister can, of course, make calculations and turn 15,000 jobs out of the top hat. These are, of course, jobs that are subsidised, subsidy jobs; we used to call them milking orbits. If people simply have less money to spend, who are mills from Denmark and Germany, the investors in the meantime come from China and Arab countries and roll our taxpayers' money straight across the border, then it is impossible that this kind of subsidy trade can create jobs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u63	I will not use terms of force, certainly not in the direction of Mr Dercksen, who made his maiden speech today. But if there's anything semantic about our discussion, that's his input. And when it comes to a high hat: that's where he gets his lyrics from. I come up with calculations that have been carried out by agencies that are able to do that kind of calculations. That is where the experts take the time, who look at all this thoroughly and then come up with their information to the best of their knowledge. That's the information I base myself on. I have already said something to Mr Flierman about the basis of support. I believe that the energy agreement is an expression of support. I think the coalition agreement is an expression of support. I believe that we must ensure that our national ambitions for which there is support are maintained as well as regionally as possible. It is inevitable that in certain locations where you are faced with the consequences more than others, the people there will come to a different balance for themselves. However, in view of the national interest, we may need to make different decisions than those in the area itself. There is a great deal to be done to gain regional and local support. Part of that is that you have the best plans and that you can defend them. That includes taking participation seriously. In addition, even when it comes to windmills, you carry out the covenant between the nature and the environment movement and the sector in order to do something about the area where these windmills land. That's all necessary. There will have to be hard work on local and regional support, but in the end we need to achieve our rural objective, which I have already mentioned, in a responsible way. I'm trying to do both. Mr Flierman spoke about the evaluation. I have already gone into that. Mrs Meijer of the SP has raised a number of points. I went into her point about the low-income people. I also raised the question about the cost of windmills, if you put them in the sea a little further. I have indicated very specifically what the price differences per kWh are. To give an idea: our calculation was that if we were to realize windmills near IJmuiden, 1.2 billion more would be needed. I think that's a lot of money. That transition costs a lot of money anyway. If you can reduce costs in a responsible way, you can't fail to do so. Mrs Meijer indicated that increasing the tax on fossil fuel could be a nice solution. Perhaps it is good to say something about the supposed subsidy of fossil fuels. There are indeed countries where you can buy petrol for seven cents per litre and where fuel is subsidised. In the Netherlands we do not subsidise the fuel. The subsidy of fossil fuel in the Netherlands is zero. If we have concessions for energy-intensive industries, we will do so because of the competitiveness of industry on the world market and because of the great employment interests of people in IJmuiden and Groningen. We don't do that for fossil energy, we do that for all energy. It is not the case that these companies receive subsidies, they pay less taxes because of the importance of employment. If we have excise duty exemption for international air traffic and for international shipping, it is not a subsidy, but an exemption from excise duty that we have to do under the Chicago Convention, to which we are stuck and the Mannheim Convention, to which we are stuck. We do not have the possibility of taxing it at all. We are in the Netherlands in terms of fossil energy in a situation where we do not subsidise. To the extent that we give reductions in tax rates, it is either because of the international obligations we have or because we do not want to destroy companies that compete on the world market and therefore see tens of thousands of jobs disappear. Mrs Meijer mentioned a point that is very important for her group, namely the effects on nature and the environment after the construction of windmills. That is very important. That is why we will lay down rules on the lot decisions that will be taken in order to minimise the impact on ecology. That's in the lot decisions for Borssele I and II. I'm going to make those decisions available in July. Then the Chamber will see what we are doing about the inclusion of regulations relating to ecological interests. I would like to mention a few points. There will be a ban on heavy metals in the sacrificial anodes used for cathodic protection. For this you can use a substance with heavy metals or one without heavy metals. They have to do it without heavy metals. I also call it an acoustic deterrent, on which provisions will be included. If there's a difference, it'll have an effect on the porpoises in the area. This must be done in a certain way, so that these animals are given the opportunity to swim away, after which the moors continue. We will also set noise standards that must not be exceeded in construction. Furthermore, we will adjust the number of rotations of the windmills based on the bird migration. If there is, those mills have to rotate in a different way, so that you can limit the damage to the maximum. In addition, a system will be installed in the wind farms to observe bird migration, so that you can react in the form of adjusting the rotation of the windmills. I think the issue of ecology during and after construction is very important. This will be reflected in the rules for the lot decisions which will be available in July. Mrs Meijer referred to pictures of the Ministry on which the windmills were vaguely drawn against the horizon. She was quite critical about this. In such things we act very carefully. If we want to visualize these future windmills, let us do so by a company that specialises in them and is independent. We don't give orders to that company. The company needs to properly reflect what it's gonna look like in the future. Then you have to take into account the generally accepted standards for visualization of this type of activity: the camera position, the lenses and so on. That is all very accurately recorded. Of course there's no photoshop. By the way, you can watch those videos on the internet, where you can see what the windmills look like at various distances from the coast. The conclusion of how that view is assessed can only be drawn on its own. I have a view on this and I think everyone should have a view. This will certainly be dealt with in the decisions that are being taken and in the participation that needs to be taken. If you drop the windmills as planned 18 and a half kilometers from the coast, so ten miles away, they will be visible 35% of the time in the summer months. This depends on the humidity, the colour of the air, the clouds and so on. How big the mills are, the Chamber can see on those visualizations. Mrs Meijer, although not on the agenda, referred to an article in NRC Handelsblad on the gas problems in Groningen, which would be financed from money intended for renewable energy. We have a budget reserve for renewable energy. For the most part, this money has not been made available on the basis of renewable energy storage, on the basis of the SDE+ scheme, which has been set up fairly recently, but has been transferred from the general funds for that period. The part of the general budget is reserved because commitments have been made which must be fulfilled at some point in time. But the moment when these obligations are to be fulfilled lies further in the future. During the interim period this has been used in a responsible way to contribute to the finalisation of the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That makes perfect sense. So no money for renewable energy has been used for this and it is not the case that there is less renewable energy being done, it will all be done as it should be done, according to the timetable. In the interim, we have the opportunity to use it responsibly, as we have done. I will have another debate on this after next week's debate with the House of Representatives, in which I will be more detailed. Mrs Meijer said that an appointment already made with Zandvoort had been cancelled. She asked what else we're going to do when it comes to consulting the coastal communities. There was no separate meeting planned in Zandvoort. Meetings were planned in Scheveningen, Noordwijkerhout and Egmond. Those meetings were initially postponed because I wanted the visualizations done. Those meetings have now taken place. They were mainly information meetings, so that people are well prepared for the change of the National Water Plan, for example when drawing up views. When the regional assessments are made on the basis of a Dutch Parliamentary motion, there will certainly be discussions with the directors and the people in the area. That's what we do to contribute to the creation of support. Mrs Meijer wondered why we no longer use the area in the north of our territorial area, providing a stronger economic boost to Groningen. I think that the possibilities are certainly great to operate Danish, German and Dutch parks from Groningen as regards construction and maintenance. But that does not apply to the location above, to the area mentioned by Mrs Meijer, which is over after the defence area has to be spared. There is an international training area that Defence simply needs for the fighters and the international agreements that have been made, but also for the Dutch national needs. What remains is not enough to achieve 700 megawatts. We have implemented this standardisation. That was important for cost control. That can be realized in Borsele, off the Dutch coast, at the location above the Wadden we just talked about, and at the location IJmuiden Ver, but the location that Mrs Meijer is talking about now, does not offer an additional 700 megawatts. Mrs Vos has raised a number of points that I have already raised. I said how I look at the G7 ambition and how I see the Court's report. Mrs Vos believes that, in addition to what the Court of Auditors has said about it, a result can be achieved in the area of renewable energy by working in addition to the SDE+ instrument with a tax incentive for renewable energy. It also referred to the tax system, which is currently under review. With the SDE+ financing of renewable energy, we have, on the basis of our experience and the lessons we have learned from it, put in place a system that I believe is working very well. A system that is seen as best practice in the European Union and which the Court of Auditors itself appreciates. So we would like to stick to that system, because I think that is the right system. On top of that, I do not see a tax incentive as meaningful and, in my view, has no added value. I cannot anticipate what might be discussed in the review of the tax system with regard to the level of VAT, the application of certain VAT rates, the reduction of the burden on employers' labour, the reduction in purchasing power for the people in our country or the greening. That is not what I am talking about in this context and not at the moment. I'll go over it as a member of the Council of Ministers as soon as there are proposals. However, that is not the case at the moment. Mrs Vos also mentioned the use of a reserve, which the NRC wrote about. That's what I've been doing. I also looked at what the Court of Auditors' report was based on and what we have done in the wake of new activities. I also discussed the current permits and the STROOM Act. Mrs Vos also wondered whether the bill for the opposition of large consumers to pay for the network at sea would be deposited with consumers. That's not true, Mrs. Fox. It is true that we are going to finance the 8 billion for the offshore windmills from the SDE+ premium, the storage of renewable energy. The amount between 3 billion and a maximum of 4 billion needed for TenneT's offshore grid will be covered from the same source. That means there's no difference between them. There is no question that, now that TenneT is involved, there is another funding. If everything had gone through the wind farms, we would have financed everything from the storage of renewable energy. Now we've split it up. Part of the subsidy goes to the wind farms and part to TenneT for a net at sea, but in both cases it comes from the storage of renewable energy. The advantage is that the standardisation and use of TenneT will save a total of 3 billion. That's the profit we're getting in there. Mrs Vos also spoke about costs: first it was 12 billion and now it is 8 billion. The 12 billion I communicated to the Chamber in my letter of 17 May concerned both the windmills themselves and the grid connection by TenneT. One is 8 billion and the other is 3 to 4 billion. In addition, based on current estimates, this amounts to a maximum of 12 billion. So we are consistent if you compare what we are saying now with what we wrote to the House of Representatives in May. Mrs Vos spoke of an international maritime network. This is particularly relevant for wind farms that are further off the coast. If you have a wind farm close to the coast, it is much cheaper to bring it directly to the country via a transformer station, standardized as we are now going to do with TenneT. Even if you are going to realize IJmuiden Ver and the park above the Wadden, it is more beneficial to bring it directly to the country. Only if you get further to the North Sea will it be wiser to link it up, so to connect Germany, Denmark, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands. We're definitely gonna do that. We are very active in the contacts with all those other countries. Once there's a profit to be made, we're going to make that profit. Mrs Huijbregts spoke about cost savings. That 40% cost savings is an absolute requirement for me. Another spokesperson asked me how I got that 40%. The industry itself has estimated to me that it will be able to reduce the cost of wind at sea by 40% over a period of ten years. I said: that's fine, then we're going to record it; then we're going to make a transition period between now and ten years. That 40% reduction should be achieved during that period. Each tender must therefore remain within that time frame. If one does so, it is good, but if one does not, then that tender will not go through. Then I'm not gonna issue the license, and I'm not gonna make a grant commitment. So it has been put forward by industry and that means that it is the maximum for me right away. Those wind farms will only be realized if they keep their own commitment. Of course, I am able to make my own contribution to that 40%. As part of the Energy Agreement, I have agreed that I will do my utmost to make my contribution as well. So that's what we're doing. First of all, by using TenneT through that standardisation. So that's gonna save a billion dollars. We can also achieve cost savings through the combination of authorisation and grant, which removes the risks from the wind farm operators. Nor do the site surveys have to be carried out by all tenderers themselves. We're conducting those investigations. All companies can make use of the data from those surveys. This also leads to considerable cost savings. We have also introduced flexibility into the Lot Decision. If you have won such a tender at some point, but there is a new technique available that would allow you to achieve more with less money, then there is the flexibility to offer space for that. This means that we have taken advantage of all the possibilities offered by the procedure and the use of TenneT. In doing so, we have made a major contribution to the 40% reduction in costs. The rest will have to be supplied by industry. Mrs Huijbregts also spoke about the relationship between this proposal, the National Water Plan and the structural vision. It is exactly as Mrs Huijbregts said: this is where the procedure is now being laid down, here it is laid down that you cannot go outside the areas that we have identified. These are more areas than the three clustered sites currently under discussion, but no windmills should be built outside that area. That would not be reasonable either, because you would then end up on a shipping route and the like. But for both the Water Plan and the structural vision, the whole consultation procedure has yet to come. There will be. The structure vision will be presented to the First and Second Chambers. That's all about to happen. I have made it clear to the Chamber that there are two procedures. One procedure is the Water Plan, which we have come a long way with. Participation will soon be over and we will take a decision on this at the end of December. The other procedure is next year's review in the ten-mile and twelve-mile zones. It's two different procedures that are going to run. I have already been able to address some of the points raised by Mr Dercksen. I'm tempted to say something about his statements about the PVV's place in history and about the views of the PVV, but it's nice weather outside and the mood is good, so I'll leave that for a while. Mr Dercksen wondered whether wind at sea was the most efficient way of reducing CO emissions and whether that was the right choice. I can assure Mr Dercksen that we have worked out everything very well and that we have shown all the possibilities. We have come to the conclusion that we can achieve just 14% by 2020 if we use all the practical possibilities that are currently available in the best possible way. Everything that was available about studies and insights on efficiency and effectiveness has been used to come to terms with the objective. I have already said that with the total 4,500 megawatts of wind at sea, we can make a contribution of 3.1% to total energy consumption in the Netherlands. This 3.1% is a contribution to the target of 14%-16%. At various times, I have already discussed in detail the costs charged to households. Mr Dercksen wondered if I was prepared to monitor actual energy production. He also asked how much kWh is produced. We already have 1,000 megawatts or standing or in production. If all the wind farms in the roadmap we're talking about are 3,500 megawatts extra, that's 14,665 gigawatts per year. I can't put that in megawatts because this is too big a number. That is the information I can give Mr Dercksen. Mr Dercksen wondered if we would monitor that. Oh, yeah. We intend to do so. This should also be monitored in the context of the SDE+ grant because the companies will only receive subsidies if they supply electricity. There's a tender. They can participate in that. If they win the tender, they get the grant commitment, but this doesn't mean they can put the money in their pocket. They have to build those windmills. When the windmills are ready and are actually turning, the subsidy is paid on the basis of what they actually deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u64	It goes without saying that they will receive the subsidy on the basis of the electricity produced, but my question was whether we can monitor where the losses are in energy. The Minister had an exchange of letters with a number of scientists who said there was a lot of energy loss. The building of parks costs energy, the peaks cannot be absorbed because there is no storage and export capacity, and power plants have to run in parallel. I'm looking for those losses. That is what my question was addressed to. Are we gonna monitor them so we can get a number under the line? The Minister mentions the gross product delivered, but I want to look at the net product delivered. Retract the energy from that. Do we have to go to the power plants to ask how they work when they have to cope with wind power fluctuations and stay on standby?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u65	I didn't mention a gross number of gigawatts, but a net number: 14.665 gigawatts net in a year. That's what I mentioned. I said we're gonna monitor that. That's what I can say about it. There is no ambiguity on this point. We have indicated what needs to be done to produce renewable energy. This is partly done on land and partly at sea. On land you have different forms. You have to put some money in it to build that infrastructure. In the end, it generates electricity. That's what subsidies are for. Those things are all accounted for and that information is all available. In addition, I have nothing to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u66	I didn't get an answer to my question. I want to know what energy losses occur. Let me confine myself to the power plants. They have to catch fluctuations and they have to stay on standby, because we always want power and not just when it blows. There are indications, no, there are facts and reports which show that we are losing a large part of wind energy. I just want to know under the line how much energy the mills generate when we compare those losses. I'm not getting an answer to that, but I really want to know. After all, we are going to spend 18 billion, no, 12 billion on energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u67	Indeed, it is between 11 billion and 12 billion and not 18 billion. It is fine that we agree on that. I told you, the net yield is 14,665 gigawatts. As far as storage is concerned, there is no problem. The Netherlands has a flexible electricity supply and over-capacity in electricity production. The Netherlands can integrate both 14% and 16% of renewable energy, to which wind contributes 3.1% at sea, into the current system. Much more renewable energy can be produced in the future, depending on how we are going to do it. Maybe in ten years we can work with solar cells that have a huge yield and that can produce electricity when there is diffuse light and even when there is no sun but only light. If all that is true, then the situation will change. At present, however, we do not need storage and we can count on flexibility in the system. I also expect that the more we manage to increase the volume of car traffic on electricity, the number of electric cars will increase considerably in the future. This also means that within a clear number of years there are many tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands of cars with a large battery capacity. If there is wind energy at night, when there is less demand for it, you can put it on the batteries. The next day it can be used again in car traffic. These are all future developments. For the short term, I said what the net is. I also said that I will monitor it and that there is no problem with flexibility. Mr Pijlman made his maiden speech on behalf of the D66 Group. With respect, I have found that he has held back on Groningen. Mr Pijlman asked what new policies I am preparing with regard to greening. He meant that a tax reform is under discussion at the moment. Greening could be part of that. I cannot go into it for the reasons I have just explained. It's not up to me to talk about that now. Mr Pijlman also asked how the interests of the tourism sector are being weighed up. I have said that we are implementing Mrs Van Veldhoven's and Mrs Mulder's motion and that we are going to put this into perspective. I can confirm to Mr Pijlman that at the end of this year two tenders of 350 megawatts each take place, with the possibility for a company to bring them both in. I have dealt with the 40% reduction in costs and the contribution made by the government. I'm here to talk about the process and the lead times. The first tender opens in December 2015 and closes at the end of March 2016. We have a five-year implementation period included in it, which we are in some way ahead of schedule, but we think that the parks can also be realized in four years. The sector itself said this during the discussions under the Energy Agreement. The sector believes that the parks can be realised so quickly that it is possible for the windmills in Borssele to contribute to the 2020 target. This has to do with what we have decided on the roadmap, the way in which we ourselves as the Empire are directing, the pace that we are keeping in, partly thanks to the First Chamber that is dealing with this bill today, and also thanks to the fact that we can open the first tender at the end of this year. Maybe now I can also talk about TenneT and the costs that may have to be incurred if the windmills have been realized and TenneT then fails to realise the "net at sea" connection in time. If we had not placed the responsibility for the offshore network at TenneT, the companies themselves would have been responsible for the connection to the land and for any problems that might arise. They would then have to find solutions themselves. This means that they would have already taken it into account when registering. A problem could be associated with a certain amount of money, which would be reflected in their price. We took that risk away from them and placed it with TenneT. TenneT is very expert and experienced at this point and has said that it can do so. In this way, we do not get higher registration costs for the tender than is necessary, precisely because of the use of the expert TenneT organisation. In addition, we have standardized things in consultation with TenneT. So this is really TenneT's plan. It could pull this off. Of course, I'll keep talking to TenneT about it and keep following it. We have therefore told the companies that they do not have to do it. If something goes wrong at TenneT, the costs will not end up with them. The companies do not have to take it into account. All they have to do is get those windmills there. We and TenneT are gonna make sure that connection gets there. This is my response to Mr Pijlman's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u68	I have also raised this point and I would like to make it quite clear. The Minister says that windmill operators are not at any risk of landing energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u69	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u70	This means that responsibility lies elsewhere, namely with TenneT. If the mills produce energy, but we do not get it on land, then the producers can claim the subsidy. That is just what I said in my speech. The power doesn't come ashore, so we don't have any power. Does TenneT pay extra, because that comes on top of it, indirectly as a liable party that subsidy to wind energy producers? TenneT is us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u71	Yes, otherwise we, you and I and all the other electricity customers, would have paid for that, only through a storage at the price that anyone who wants to realize wind farms would register. It would be his responsibility to connect with the country. Something could go wrong, and it costs a certain amount. This is then passed on to the tender price. Then we would have had to pay through the grant. We've reduced that risk by using TenneT to do it. That has its own standardized plan. It's an expert organization that has experience with it. So we reduced the risk. This means that we are doing good business for the citizens on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u72	I do not doubt TenneT's expertise at all; it will be fine. In Germany, however, a very large wind farm has not provided any energy for a year. The risk is then more or less unlimited. If you can't deliver for a year, the costs for TenneT will be very high. Are these costs not much higher than when we place the risk on the producer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u73	No, they're significantly lower. If you leave it with the producers, every wind farm operator is responsible. That could be two in Borssele. Next year, there could be two more in Borssele. After that there will be a number of them off the Dutch coast. They would all be responsible for the net at sea, for their connection. They should all find a solution to that themselves. They would be at risk and would have to assess that risk themselves. By registering, they would pass that on to the citizens. Now we're putting all that together, according to the organization's plan that can make the best plan for that. In this way, we can achieve significant cost savings and a reduction in risk. I know that in recent years things have gone well and wrong in the realization of wind farms. You can learn from the things that went wrong. The operators of the wind farms have learned from it. Governments have learned from it and TenneT has also learned from it. We can now all ensure that this 14% and 16% ambition is achieved with a large contribution of wind at sea. Mr Pijlman spoke about the peaks during electricity production. I just went into that when I talked about the batteries and the electric cars. I have said that there is sufficient flexibility. So right now, it's not necessary to turn it into a business case. We have sufficient flexibility in the Netherlands. This is also confirmed by the authorities that can assess this. Mr Pijlman also spoke about the European framework required for wind energy at sea. I strongly believe in that European framework. If the world has a problem, it must be resolved internationally. Europe can make a major contribution to this if the European countries do so together. That is why I very much believe in that. So I am doing my utmost for energy cooperation within Europe as a whole, but I am also trying to organise North-West European energy cooperation, where we, as a region, are already doing things concretely and quickly. Maybe that's how we anticipate the European Union. We are doing this in order to strengthen the ambitions of the European Union and with the full support of the European Commission. I am therefore trying to respect and take into account European cooperation, that European framework, in all possible ways. Madam President, I hope I have responded with pleasure to the presentation of the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u74	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of our group, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. This has brought clarity on a number of points. This certainly applies to the parks that are being built off the coast of Borssele. As far as I'm concerned, we don't have to talk about that anymore. As far as I am concerned, the debate focuses on the evaluation of the programme, which I shall come up with in a moment, and on the realisation of the Dutch coast parks and the alternatives to them. If I understand the Minister correctly, he says that the parks, including the strips he wants to add on the land side, are badly needed to meet the energy agreement objectives by 2020 and 2023. There's actually no room to make any other choices in that. Although we will still have the decision on the National Water Plan and on the partial revision, we will still be working on these tenders afterwards. The Minister sees no alternative to realizing those lots. That's gonna keep triggering us anyway. That also worries us, because we are afraid that you will enter a certain path with blinders, without serious room for evaluation. This brings me to the other locations, especially at the location IJmuiden Ver. The Minister has indicated that I have just as quickly calculated that these locations are about 15% more expensive in the price of electricity. Of course, that's not nothing; I admit that. But there may be another critical review of the possibilities. In the light of the social cost-benefit analysis on the basis of the Van Veldhoven/Agnes Mulder motion, the situation is then examined, including possible further cost reductions. Shouldn't you say: let's do it right at once and thus realize a situation that can count on much more support and support? That can also be a very interesting showcase for our industry. It is precisely that question that we would like to see an answer in the government's assessment. It must therefore be an evaluation which not only confirms that we must do what we have planned, but also leave room for other, perhaps surprising, choices to be made. We think that's important. I understand from the Minister that he will inform us further about the 2016 timeline for the evaluation, the decision-making on the Water Plan, its partial revision, the consideration of the results of the social cost-benefit analysis and the timing of the tenders. He would explain that again in time for us. We have already talked about this in this debate, but he would be very helpful if he could sort it out in a letter to the Chamber during the course of this week. I have made it clear that it is very important for us that this evaluation should take place in 2016, before irreversible decisions are taken on the lots off the Dutch coast and before we can see with each other whether an alternative such as IJmuiden Ver is not attractive. To underline this, we are tabling a motion. I would point out that, on the basis of the information we hope to receive from the Minister in the letter, we will, of course, consider whether we are maintaining or withdrawing the motion next week. The President shall: Mr Flierman, Mr Hoekstra, Mr Knapen, Mr Van Kesteren and Mr Brinkman proposed the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas: that the Netherlands must comply with the European commitments on sustainability; that the government has concluded a national energy agreement to that end; that renewable energy generation using wind energy is necessary in that context; the need for public support for the implementation of the Energy Agreement, especially in the case of offshore windmills; However, in the current state of technology, a very significant amount of public resources is involved in the realisation of wind energy at sea; that the Second Chamber in the Van Veldhoven-Agnes Mulder motion (34058, nr. 30) requested a social cost-benefit analysis before taking further decisions on wind farms off the Dutch coast; calls on the Government to: submit the first comprehensive review of the National Energy Agreement to the Chamber in the first half of 2016; at the same time as submitting the partial revision of the National Water Plan to the Chamber; to take decisions on the above-mentioned items of plot decisions on locations off the Dutch coast or the Wadden, and goes to the order of the day. She gets letter G (34058).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u75	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleagues, Pijlman and Dercksen, on the maiden speech they made this afternoon. Given its content, I look forward to our future debates. To Mr Dercksen of the PVV Group I must say the following. I find your love for thorium somewhat remarkable. You seem to have a love for nuclear power. The difference between SP and PVV is that you have a love for nuclear power, that you actually pour God's water over God's field, that you don't care about energy saving and let the earth warm up. The SP has a very different opinion on this and would very much like to discuss it with many people who remain alive in this Parliament. I see that Mr Dercksen is getting ready for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u76	Yes. I would advise the SP Group to do a study on thorium and the difference with nuclear energy, because it has very little to do with each other. But while I am standing here, I can ask the SP Group where it stands in this debate. Are you on the side of the people with a small wallet, the Dutch households, the people with an AOW and a small pension? Or on the side of big business, which will have the opportunity to invest in all those wind farms at sea? Perhaps it is time to clarify this for the voter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u77	You are asking me a question that I would very much like to answer. You know my party a little bit. You know we're for the little man. You say it, but we really are. We stand up for the people with a small scholarship. I did not ask the Minister for nothing what the people in the country noticed on their energy bills. He gave me an answer that I'm about to answer. Of course, I'm not in favour of supporting big business. I didn't say for nothing: let them pay a little more so they're going to use less fossil, which makes us all better, and let them make a fair contribution to the transition. I understand from what you have said that for the time being I do not want anything at all, let's go ahead with thorium in 15 years' time and everything will be fine. I don't hold much faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u78	I understand the SP is for the man with the small wallet, because if you implement your SP policy, everyone has a small wallet. But those investors in those big parks aren't little boys. They are big investors from abroad, for example Arabic or Chinese. The SP opts for return on their money, which the small man and the Dutch households have to pay. I did not receive an answer to my question. I'd still like to have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u79	Mr Dercksen did not understand me very well. I'm definitely going for the little guy. It must be able to use renewable energy. As long as we continue with fossil energy, we will all bear the costs, i.e. the health effects, the air quality effects and other harmful effects. Left or right, if we continue with fossil, as you advocate, no one will be better off. I am, of course, particularly in front of the Minister, whom I would like to thank very much for his reply. Of course, I do have a few more questions. The minister says he doesn't subsidise fossil. It is very easy to say that they must benefit from certain advantages because it is very important for their competitiveness. The Minister also knows, of course, that the use of fossil is causing a great deal of damage, i.e. the health effects, air pollution and so on. We all have to cough that up. I think the Minister is a creative and flexible man who looks into the matter. In my view, therefore, he can also come up with ways to encourage the large companies, i.e. the large and middle consumers, to use them sustainably and to get rid of fossil. One of the means for this is, of course, money. Then the low incomes. The Minister tells me that the price is falling faster than the additional costs that come with it. He says he's on the budget looking at how it's working out and how we're adjusting. I believe that I have received a commitment from the Minister that he will look at the effects for the people with a small grant and that he will, if necessary, adjust them. He will meet them in one way or another. I hope so, and I look forward to it. The Minister actually feels a little accused about the pictures. That really wasn't my intention. I am not accusing him of forgery, but I wanted to make it clear that if there are different stories alive, one says that it is a forest of windmills and the other says: this is what it looks like. That's why I thought it was so important for the minister to talk to the city councils. Moreover, I am very pleased that he has done so by now, because creating support is the most beautiful thing there is. However, I still have the question as to what's going on with the resistance. Did the minister take it away or not? Finally, of course, I look forward to the debate in the House of Representatives on the Groningen problem in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u80	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his detailed reply. I think he has clarified a number of points. I was particularly pleased with his embrace of the G7's position and that he also stressed the need to ensure that they remain within that 2 Celsius. The Minister has also indicated here with fire that if we do nothing and come to 3.5 Celsius warming, we will not know the Earth as it is today. I liked the way the Minister put that plea very firmly here, because that is, of course, ultimately what it is about, that we want that earth to remain viable. And for that you sometimes have to make decisions that are not always easy and simple. I think that the Minister deserves to be congratulated on the fact that he is really sticking his neck out here for at least something that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports. I am surprised to hear him say that there is no need to tighten up the policy. In my opinion, there are a lot of signals, including from the General Court, which indicate that it is still a question of whether we will achieve the targets set by 2020. As far as European policy is concerned, too, it is really a question of whether that is enough to ensure that by 2050 we have a virtually completely sustainable energy supply. I also think it is good news that the Minister indicated that the wind-on-the-sea plan is going to speed up the energy agreement. That is new to me, and I am pleased to see that, because then the Minister will in fact do something about what I would like to ask him to do. The Minister was also quite clear about the fact that.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In order to speed up the greening of our way of life, the Minister did not wish to respond to my invitation to take a number of additional fiscal measures within the framework of our tax system. Moreover, I understand that he does not want to anticipate discussions on this issue. In addition to the SDE+, I believe that there are opportunities to offer permanent and longer tax concessions, for example, to citizens or corporations that generate energy sustainably. It is also useful to take a close look at the tax deduction of large consumers and how this relates to small consumers. There are certainly some issues in this area that my group would like to discuss with the Minister at another time. It remains a separate matter that the Minister can now use a budgetary system that is originally produced from the SDE+ to deal with Groningen gas. The Minister also said that he would discuss it with the House of Representatives. We will wait and see, but it is something we raise our eyebrows with. I would also like to thank the Minister for saying that the longer term North Sea network makes sense in order to achieve wind energy that is further away from the sea. We are glad that he is open to thinking about that North Sea network in that sense. My group considers this to be an important legislative proposal, which is necessary in order to achieve the objectives that the Netherlands is right to pursue and with which we assume our responsibilities to tackle the climate problem. So my group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u81	Speaker. What a metamorphosis! From the time I wasn't at all politically active, I know the minister as someone who was banging on the right side of the VVD. I did listen to the captain of the Arctic Sunrise today anyway. It could be happening! We had a brief debate with the Minister about 18 billion and 12 billion. I would also like to remind the Minister that on 1 June in my very popular early bird programme, Mr Samsom told me that these 18 billion were well spent. So it's not quite like I made all that up myself. Apparently, there is still some uncertainty within the coalition as well. We also had a debate on jobs. There is a difference of opinion on that point. Take the Park Gemini, also wind at sea, 4.5 billion in 15 years, so 300 million a year. And the companies concerned have indicated that they have 500 temporary jobs for the construction of the park and then 120 permanent jobs. That's 2.5 million a job. This can, of course, never mean economic gain under the line. I have two motions. I've asked the Minister about monitoring the net output of energy. But we couldn't figure it out. For the people who will have to pay for it all later, I really want to figure out what the net energy yield is if we monitor the loss on power plants and we calculate what those parks cost; the wind trade says that windmills run for half a year, which is already a significant part of the life of those mills. Surely it can't be that they have peaks in wind power in Germany and we won't have them here? That seems very unlikely to us. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Dercksen, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Van Weerdenburg proposed the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas there is uncertainty as to the net flow of windmills; Whereas it is desirable to monitor the effectiveness and effectiveness of grants; Invites the Government to conduct independent investigations into the following cases immediately after the entry into service of a wind farm at sea in order to determine the size of the net fuel savings: non-adjustable excess wind current in periods of high wind; efficiency losses of existing power plants caused by the contribution of wind energy; energy used to build, connect and maintain turbines and parks, and goes to the order of the day. She gets letter H (34058).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u82	My second motion concerns TenneT. That is a state-owned company and is about to be given responsibility for bringing the power ashore. I have heard the Minister say: yes, otherwise the wind merchants, wind energy producers would ask for a higher price and receive more subsidies for the electricity produced. But there's no limit to TenneT's risk. In Germany, TenneT has not been able to land 80 windmills for a year or even eighteen months. So that's an unlimited risk. The PVV Group does not want to place this risk on the Dutch households indefinitely, but wants to put it where it actually belongs, namely the wind energy producers. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Dercksen, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Van Weerdenburg proposed the following motion: The Chamber, heard the debate, Whereas previously the operators of wind farms at sea were responsible for the landing of electricity; Whereas TenneT has been designated by the Minister to build the infrastructure at sea; Whereas practice teaches that this is not without risk; whereas TenneT is a state-owned company; calls on the Government to organise the procurement process in question in such a way as to safeguard TenneT from liability in the event of disasters in order to prevent the end user from having to pay an even higher price for energy, and goes to the order of the day. She is given letter I (34058).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u83	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his clear, business-like and detailed answer. Moreover, the fact that this legislative proposal, this framework law, is well in place, is demonstrated by the fact that we have mainly talked about all kinds of implementation issues and hardly much about the legislative proposal itself. Also given the objectives of the First Chamber, it will not be easy to oppose it. It requires great efforts to meet our targets, 14% by 2020 and 16% by 2023. The Minister also admits that. He says: all hands on deck to achieve those goals. This requires a variety of measures. I'll come back to that in a minute. In the debate, Mrs Meijer of the SP Group said that it would be good to recreate the location of the northern part of the island over the Wadden Islands, thereby giving an economic boost to Groningen. Moreover, I can assure her that the Eemshaven is currently experiencing this development on all sides. The Eemshaven becomes a very important offshore port for German and Danish companies and for the Gemini park, which is now being built. I come to the choice for the location, the Dutch coast. We have talked about the ten and twelve miles. The Minister convinced me that he would give procedural effect to the Van Veldhoven/Agnes Mulder motion. But the Minister says something about that too. Let me see if I heard him correctly. He says: right now it seems to me that I need those locations within the 12-mile radius. He makes two arguments. He says he can't search the back of the parks for expansion because of shipping. At the same time, he stressed the cost aspect. In fact, he says that I am giving procedural implementation to the motion, but the consideration seems to have already been made. I agree with Mr Flierman on this point. We would like to see, in all creativity, once again the total of the considerations. Moreover, I was pleased when the Minister said that Borssele II, because of the innovative character and potential profits of wind energy for our industry, will be extended to include an innovative project. The same applies to the Gemini park, which is now being built. That park will be one of the largest wind farms in the world. It lies about 85 km above Schiermonnikoog. This too has a very innovative character. I hope that we will be able to take into account the first experience in 2016. That's gotta be about right. I have already said that I think the Minister is optimistic about the lead time. He speaks consistently in four years. However, the construction of the Gemini park takes seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u84	I'm definitely thinking about my time, too. So it's been seven years. The Minister explained that he is linking the permits and the grants and that that is the policy innovation. Maybe I'll remind you of that in abundance. I'll come to the evaluation. I tasted some space with the Minister when he said: in October of this year I will return to you with the National Energy Exploratory to see how far we really are. Then we can also discuss STROOM and the tax system. The question will be raised as to whether we should proceed with further accelerations. With these comments, we welcome the legislative framework. Again, questions remain about the implementation of this law. This will continue to be the case in the years to come. However, we firmly believe that we need this framework to meet our sustainability objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u85	Madam President. I will deal with Mr Flierman's first point at the same time as Mr Pijlman's point. Mr Pijlman said very clearly: it is nice that you are carrying out this Van Veldhoven/Agnes Mulder motion, that you want to look at the regional impact and that you want to look at how it should be handled, but if you say that at the back of the current planned parks off the Dutch coast, enlargement cannot be sought because of the shipping routes and that it costs an additional 1.2 billion, then you are not really prepared to meet the results. I did not ask for the Van Veldhoven/Mulder motion. I am doing what the Chamber has asked me to do, which is to show the regional effects. However, the cabinet believes that abandoning the section between the ten- and twelve-mile zone means that for both parks off the Dutch coast, you cannot achieve a total of 3 x 700 megawatts, but that a maximum of 2 x 700 megawatts can be realized there. Then you will have to emigrate to IJmuiden Ver. That costs EUR 1.2 billion extra. In view of all the preparatory work I have done, I do not think it is justified to charge the extra 1.2 billion to electricity customers, businesses and citizens. I made a trade-off at the time. It was a question of what the effects are on the coast and what conclusion I should draw from them. Anyway, that's my own consideration. Eventually, there will be views. There must be a response to that. Then the final decision must be taken. This is also translated into a structural vision, which is therefore placed before the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. Then it is always possible for the majority to say: we do not mind that 14% will not be achieved by 2020. It is also possible for the majority to say: we do not mind that an additional 1.2 billion is charged to citizens and businesses; we would like to do so. That consideration can always be made, but I have made a decision on behalf of the cabinet and I have come to a different conclusion, namely to the conclusion that I have also submitted to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u86	That is a rather disappointing statement from the Minister. Mrs Van Veldhoven and Mrs Mulder have asked for a social cost-benefit analysis. It is not intended to become a kind of hobby exercise for a consultancy firm. This cost-benefit analysis is intended to play a role in decision-making. Here, an evaluation has been requested at a number of times, to consider views and to see what the revision of the National Water Plan means. The Minister now says: that is all nice and kind, but I have already come to my conclusion and I am only prepared to depart from it under pressure from a majority of the House if I am put the knife to my throat. I find that disappointing, because I have just asked the Minister to give himself the space to look at that again. I asked him to give himself the space to make that trade-off one more time. In recent times, in a number of major administrative cases, we have seen that space has not been allowed. It's a big risk if you don't allow yourself that space. You'll regret it later. We believe that the government should also afford itself the opportunity to think about it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-16-eerstekamer-6.u87	The last thing we need is a shaky minister. I think it is necessary to carry out thorough preparatory work on these matters. You need to concentrate all your intentions. You're gonna get a reaction to that. Based on all that pre-work, you need to see what you can do for yourself to take care of others. So your forework has to be for each other. You need a route plan. You need to know exactly how you want to realize things. You have to make all the considerations yourself if you're responsible for that. That's what you have to stand for. Of course there is participation and there are views. On the basis of these views, the final decision must be taken, but I do not want to create the wrong expectations. At the moment I am convinced that it is not justified to set these mills off the coast instead of 18.5 kilometres away at 21 kilometres. If I did that, I'd be able to make less windmills there. In that case, part of the windmills will have to be built at a greater distance, but that will cost 1.2 billion. If you look at the profit of that two-mile distance and the cost of 1.2 billion, then I've made my assessment, and I'm defending it, too. The Chamber can take a motion and tell me to do some preliminary work. I'll do it. In the end, this is taken into account in the formulation of the views. I will take that into account in my decision. The Chamber may also have a view on this, but in this process it is necessary that I am not weak but decisive, also in view of my responsibility and our great ambition that we must fulfil in the short term. So I must set a course and have a view. I have to defend that view. That's what I like to do here. Mr Flierman has made a link between what is going on for the Dutch Coast and the review in 2016, but these are two different things. I have an idea about what's going on for the Dutch Coast. I have put forward a plan on this subject. The participation is yet to come. It focuses both on the National Water Plan and on the structural vision. This issue is still separate from the review in 2016. The 2016 review does not focus on the location of wind at sea for the Dutch Coast but on achieving the objectives of 14% in 2020 and 16% in 2023. Then we will see if the sum of measures will enable us to achieve that ambition. I assure the Chamber that if we deviate from the line for wind at sea, we have to accept 1.2 billion in costs or delay, or both. However, this will not be positive for the outcome of the evaluation. I would like to address the locations for the Dutch Coast as I have just outlined. That's what I did in the first place. Apart from that, I want to do that evaluation in 2016. The information on how it is going to be done in time will be sent to First and Second Chambers as soon as possible. I would stress that this is not related to the plans for windmills off the Dutch coast. This means that I do not recommend the motion tabled by Mr Flierman and others, which states that there is a relationship and that the conclusion he has made in his request to the government should be drawn from it. Mr Flierman also comes to the conclusion that it would be better for him to do it right at once instead of changing things again at some point. He referred to a possible parliamentary survey in ten years' time. Mr Dercksen also did so. I do not know why Mr Flierman assumes that. We will see that, but I do know that it is now necessary, if you have the responsibility now, to ensure proper decision-making. I can assure the Chamber that decisions on renewable energy have so far been very responsible and well prepared. There has also been great transparency. Both in the coalition agreement and in the Energy Agreement there is broad support, which is in line with European ambitions. They are also laid down in the Directive. This is also in line with what is going to happen in Paris and what was agreed in the G7. We are therefore engaged in a very careful process. What we are doing now, we are doing right at once. Mr Dercksen has heard Mr Samsom from Early Birds. He derives the sum of 18 billion from that, but I would suggest to Mr Dercksen that he base himself on the information we give to the parliament on behalf of the government rather than on the information of a valued member of the House of Representatives who may have mentioned a wrong number in the early bird radio programme. It is not for nothing that we have communication with this Chamber, both orally and in writing. I also hope that, in his perhaps long career in the First Chamber, Mr Dercksen will continue to take note of this with interest. Mr Dercksen also stated that windmills cost 2.5 million per job. The jobs in the energy agreement, where there are still many more things to talk about than just windmills, are the outcome of the Energy Agreement as a whole. Why are we working on those windmills? We are working on this because we want to contribute to the objectives of renewable energy with these wind turbines. That's the idea. The second effect is that, according to the calculations, everything in the energy agreement provides a total net of 15,000 full-time jobs. Mr Dercksen has tabled two motions. In one motion, he states that there is uncertainty about the net flow. There is no such ambiguity, because I have indicated it very precisely. He also states that it is desirable to monitor, but I have already promised. He then asked the government to do a number of things which were no longer to be done on the basis of the principles of the motion. I have already told Mr Dercksen that he should not compare the situation in Germany with that in the Netherlands. We have a large capacity for fossil electricity production. Gas plants are also a major part of this. You can use those gas plants flexibly. What we are going to do with renewable energy over the next few years is still modest compared to the capacity we already have available. The problem he wants to solve with this motion is not there. That's why I'm deceiving that motion. In his second motion, Mr Dercksen states, in my own words, that it is better for citizens and businesses if we do not engage TenneT but if we let the wind farm operators arrange the connection to land themselves. I think that this is bad for citizens and businesses, because it means that they are going to pay a higher price. We should not do this especially in the interests of citizens and businesses. That's why I'm deceiving that second motion, too. Mrs Meijer has encouraged me to encourage large consumers to use renewable energy, renewable electricity instead of fossil energy, fossil electricity. I can respond to that in two ways. Firstly, companies are very interested in being sustainable and using renewable energy. They have various reasons for this. One reason is that they see that this is socially necessary and that their customers also consider it important. Serious companies are all working on it. Secondly, companies that consume electricity cannot say: We only want renewable electricity. That's not how it works. We, who are responsible for the mix of renewable and fossil energy, now have a ratio of 4.5, 5% to 95,5, 95%, have to change that ratio. As we succeed in achieving this, we enable companies that take out electricity to take out more sustainably produced electricity. Furthermore, a lot of things with companies are possible and imaginable. We'll make agreements with them. We make green deals with it. We stimulate them in all kinds of ways. That is what we are doing with conviction. There's a limit for me, though. If I am going to treat electricity consumers differently than other countries, with the result that Dutch companies have to close down, so that their production goes to other countries, the net effect for the world is only that production, but in another country, stays alive, while in the Netherlands employment disappears. So I'm doing two things. Firstly, I am trying to maintain employment in the Netherlands by ensuring that companies competing on the international market are not in a worse position than their competitors in the other countries. Secondly, I am trying to contribute to a transition to renewable energy as quickly as possible, both nationally and internationally. Having heard Mrs Meijer, that is also what she ultimately wants from me. Mrs Meijer says that she and her group are particularly interested in low-income people. This group is certainly part of the government's interest. We are following what is happening in the energy sector and what is happening for the energy bill as a whole, partly in the light of the falling fossil energy prices we have been facing lately. We are also looking at other purchasing power effects, both for low-income people and for middle-income and high-income people. We all see this in the context of the August decision-making process in preparation for the budget. In doing so, the cabinet will decide what is acceptable and what is not, and where it may need to be corrected. Mrs Meijer also wondered whether I had removed the resistance. I didn't take away the resistance. It's not that easy. Take nuclear power. Many people are against this, even here in the parliament. Take the underground storage of CO. We didn't get it done. There was resistance to this storage. Take oil from Saudi Arabia. We know what was said by the leader of the PVV about Saudi Arabia and what its effects were. Take oil from the Arctic. The Chamber has already stated that it does not really want it. Take Groningen. We do not want gas to be produced in such a way that people are in unsafe conditions. Take small gas fields. Every gas field that is being discussed at the moment is said, including in the parliament, that we should not do it. Take windmills. There is great resistance to windmills on land and windmills at sea. But, yeah, everybody does expect that when he unlocks the gas tap in the house, gas comes out and when he pushes the light switch, there's light. I'll have to make sure of that. I therefore need to make a balance between national interests and local interests. I try to do this very carefully. It's not like I've overcome the resistance, but I'm trying to tell you why we do things. I also try to ensure that the final decision-making process for the specific locations is done carefully. Mrs Vos asks if I think that policy tightening is no longer necessary. I believe that policy tightening will be necessary, even if only because after 2023, in the year 2030, the issue at European level is that we need about 27% of renewable energy. That means we'll have to grow again. By 2050, both in the coalition agreement and in the energy agreement, we noted that a situation of sustainability would have to be achieved altogether. So there will certainly be a need to tighten up policy, but at the moment I must use all the opportunities I see to produce sustainable energy responsibly in the short term. I'm taking advantage of those opportunities. So I can't do anything extra right now. I don't know what else to do. Policy tightening will be discussed, but right now I need all my potential and energy to ensure that the objectives we have set ourselves are met. There is still a question about speeding up greening in the context of the tax reform. I don't make positive or negative statements about greening. I am just saying that at the moment taxes on energy in the Netherlands are the highest in the whole of Europe, as I know. So we've gone a long way. As far as large consumers are concerned, I have just mentioned the importance of employment. Mr Pijlman spoke about the Dutch coast and the implementation of a Van Veldhoven/Agnes Mulder motion. I hope that I have responded to that with pleasure. On the one hand, I must set my own course, stand for it and offer security to those of whom I am asking for investment. There is a lot of investment to be made and companies like to see a cabinet that knows what it wants and that sets a clear course, which can also defend it. On the other hand, we must, of course, do justice to decision-making with participation. Through the Van Veldhoven/Agnes Mulder motion extra ammunition will be available for good decision-making. I shall therefore proceed with that motion. Mr Pijlman pointed out the importance of Groningen in what is happening at sea. I totally agree with him. The Eemshaven is a very nice port. Groningen has a lot of energy expertise. The company Wagenborg and other companies have a lot to offer in terms of maintenance and installation of windmills. So I think that Groningen's position is strong and I would like to continue to think along with Groningen. Mr Pijlman is also right when he says that Gemini's experiences should be used. I'm sure you will. We also share these experiences with neighbouring countries. I have already indicated at the beginning of my first term that these great ambitions also have for wind energy at sea in the short term. We will try to do it together so that we reduce the costs for our citizens and businesses as much as possible and that we allow implementation to take place as soon as possible. About that "as soon as possible" the following. Mr Pijlman referred to Gemini, where it lasted seven years. We're really doing things differently now. Gemini's decision had to be made in the way it was organized at the time. Now we've done it quite differently. We've taken the lead as the Empire. We'll do the tests we need ourselves. We have linked the granting of grants and licences. We'll make sure we have the subsidies available. We've set up a road map. We have chosen the locations in a very sensible and well-preserved way. This means that the industry itself now thinks it can achieve it within four years. I agree with the sector on this point. Finally, the National Energy Exploratory 2015. Mr Pijlman says that there are possible accelerations there. Let's get this straight. We will evaluate in 2016. We will see at the end of 2015, at the National Energy Exploratory whether it is already predictable that problems will arise. If that is the case, we are going to explore solutions, so that if the evaluation proves to exist, we have already done the necessary preparatory work. Madam President, I am experiencing broad support in the Chamber for this bill. I also hope for support from the CDA group, which has not denied me that support in the House of Representatives. As always, I await with great interest the final decision-making in this house.
