ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Medical Scientific Research Act with people and more specifically about how to act in the cases that go wrong, that serious and unwanted events occur during that medical research. The protection of subjects, but also the transparency of research data, are essential elements for me. We are not talking about nothing: every year we approve about 1,800 research questions in the Netherlands, and together thousands of subjects are involved. If these people decide to take part in a study, they must of course be able to assume that the research is carried out according to current regulations and the latest state of medical science, in the best and safest possible setting, with well-trained researchers. No one will disagree on that. It's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh... it's, uh... it's, uh, Everyone who is here remembers the PROPATRIA study. That was also the reason for this bill. This study looked at the effects of probiotics in people with acute pancreatitis. It went wrong: 24 out of 172 people died after treatment with probiotics between 2004 and 2007, while the number of deaths was lower in the control group. The study did not appear to have been carried out in an adequate manner, the medical-ethical review committee assessed too little critically and the execution of the study did not appear to be in accordance with the law we are talking about today. What can we learn from such serious examples, so that it does not happen again, or so that, when it does, we can know it in time and take precautions? With the treatment of this law, we have a chance to take care of things properly. That's why the SP has initiated the treatment of this law. The safety of people participating in studies, the subjects, should be guaranteed as far as possible. Different rights and obligations of subjects are mentioned in the medical examination leaflet. You have the right to decide for yourself. You have a right to information. You have the right to ask questions. You're entitled to a period of reflection. You have the right to stop investigating and protecting your personal data. Let us add the right to the best possible protection today with this legal process and ultimately with the adoption of this law. It is ultimately about the protection of subjects in medical and scientific research and the transparency of those studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u2	On four points, according to the SP Group, the law can and must be strengthened. I have an amendment on two subjects. One of them, the amendment to item No. 7 has already been submitted and the other is at the submission stage. I will make two proposals which I can put to you per motion, but I hope it will not be necessary to table motions. First of all, I would like to amend Article 10. That article is about reporting serious and adverse events and the need to report them as soon as possible. I would like to add that there should be no exceptions to notifications. The Minister has already addressed possible border cases and possible exceptional situations where there is no need to report that there have been serious incidents in medical research. Then, for example, we are talking about research into prostate cancer. But the Minister's arguments have not convinced my group. We believe that these unexpected, serious and undesirable events should nevertheless be reported, both at the medical and ethical review committee and at the inspection. Our first proposal is not to make exceptions to what you have to report. Our second proposal is to always report, both to the medical-ethical review committee that has approved and supervises the scientific research, and to the Health Inspectorate. In the end, it also monitors incidents and incidents, and it can also detect a pattern. We think it is important that this is reported to the inspection. The explanatory memorandum states that the investigation may be suspended if there are reasonable grounds to believe that its continuation may lead to unacceptable risks for subjects. We propose that this should not be 'can' but'must'. Stop the investigation and have the review committee investigate what's going on. If then it appears that the risks are no greater than before, the study may continue but it may also be definitively terminated, so that other subjects are no longer at risk. Finally, I come to Article 29 of the law. It is about data protection and the disclosure of inspection reports. Personal data must, of course, be protected. That's not what we're talking about. In our written input, we have indicated that we would like the inspection reports on serious adverse events to be made public under the Public Administration Act. The Minister says that this is not because certain business data would be at stake, competition-sensitive information, but that is where we stand. The business interest should not go beyond the safety importance or the importance that knowledge from a medical-scientific study on serious incidents should be taken into account in other studies. This involves building up information and knowledge. If we look at it in this way, it should be possible, in our view, to arrange for non-competitive business data to be made visible in the wobble or in the research report, but what has happened in the context of the unexpected and serious incident. Then we and, above all, other scientists can learn from it. This also avoids the suggestion that there is a cesspool. I have the latter in the amendment to item No. 7 contained. My second amendment, which is now being prepared, concerns my proposal that the Health Inspectorate should be included annually in its public report on the number of reports of serious adverse events due to medical research. As far as my group is concerned, it does not matter whether they were expected or unexpected. Our main concern is that we know how many reports there have been. I took the year picture of the 2013 inspection. I think the 2014 annual picture is in the final stage, because it always comes out in early May. In this we see the subjects on which reports have been received. According to the SP, it should be possible to carry this type of notification. I am not concerned with what research, with name and name, but only with the number of reports, so that we, and especially researchers, know whether there is a rising trend and what the risks are. Then we'll get an annual picture. I am very curious to hear the Minister's response to these two amendments, although one still has to be tabled. I am also curious to hear the Minister's response to my group's request to report everything to the inspection and the suggestion not to work with the determination but to stop the investigation as a precautionary measure in the event of serious adverse events. I hope that I do not have to make any motions on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a proposal aimed at contributing to the safety of people who participate in a study or of patients by introducing a legal obligation to report serious undesirable accidents in the event of medical research. This aligns the reporting of accidents in drug studies with the study in humans. The PvdA is quite right to do so. Medical-scientific research is in our best interest. It contributes to renewing medication and new treatment methods and it can save lives or increase the quality of life. At the same time, it is the people who are involved in this. Therefore, research must always meet strict conditions. Those are also strictly laid down. Of course, everyone wants to prevent serious undesirable accidents at all times. But you can't rule it out completely. A statutory reporting obligation as proposed is a safety valve. Then one stays sharp, which improves quality. However, the maximum effect of the reporting obligation will only be achieved if there is a safe culture in which one can report and dares to do so. Only then will there be a notification if there is doubt. Then it will be discussed whether any of this is worth reporting. What's going on? and there will be openness. If necessary, the inspection and other bodies will be informed. The key question in this proposal is therefore: how is this safe open culture being tested? How are we going to ensure that something very bad that has happened but has not been reported is reported? That is the reason for the proposal. Not because it has to, but because people understand the need for it and the environment is safe enough, which gives people the idea: we report it because it improves quality and we are in a learning culture, not in a punitive culture. What role do the supervisors and the accompanying committee have in this? Openness about the results of the research greatly increases confidence in this. How is this maximum openness achieved? There are a number of restrictions imposed by the Minister. Misconception arises when openness is low. We often see that in care. I'm closing up. The Labour Party is in favour of this proposal, because it contributes to the quality and safety of people and patients, but we would like to hear how the associated safe culture is stimulated, so that this law actually contributes to a safer practice and to improving quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about making medical scientific research safer with people. In February 2008, the results of a study with probiotics were announced. These are benign bacteria that can slow down the onset of infections. It is a harmless food supplement, at least that is the way it is looked at. It occurs naturally in yogurt, cheese and so on. That study was then conducted with patients with acute pancreatitis. These are vulnerable and seriously ill patients, who may have benefited from probiotics specially manufactured for them. However, the presentation of the research results showed that in the group that had received these probiotics a lot more people had died than in the placebo group. Those were unexpected and shocking results. An investigation was initiated into that study. This showed a number of shortcomings in design, review and implementation. There are lessons to be learned from this. We are here seven years later because of the lessons that have been learned from it. Recommendations were made for making medical scientific research safer with humans. One of the recommendations is a reporting obligation for adverse events, for all studies. It is therefore not just a question of medical research, which is already subject to this reporting obligation, but also of research into surgical procedures, medical devices, radiation or foodstuffs, such as probiotics. Since there are risks in all medical and scientific research, I can of course agree with this extension of the obligation to report. We are actually talking about a technical amendment to this law. While we are talking about it, I still have a few questions. The procedure is that the investigator immediately reports a serious incident to the investigator of the investigation. The performer has a broader picture, for example because he is aware of the progress of research in other hospitals. It can therefore assess whether the incident is unexpected and must then report it to the committee which approved the investigation within seven or fifteen days. How then will it be ensured that this committee intervenes properly? How does this reporting obligation work? An analysis showed that in the probiotic study the committee was mid-term aware of the deaths. However, there was no intervention, because in short, because there is a lot behind it, it was assumed that the deceased were in the placebo group. The number of subjects participating has even increased in the meantime. That is why I would like to know from the Minister to what extent such a reporting obligation can improve the action of the committee and what follow-up steps should be taken. The SP says to report immediately to the inspection. I am also curious to hear the Minister's views on this. There are clear deadlines for reporting by the investigator and the performer. There is no clear deadline for reporting to subjects. In this case it is sufficient to communicate in good time, but what is "timely" is not clear from the Minister's answers, at least not enough. It states that the definition of "timely" depends on the urgency associated with the obligation to provide information relevant in the specific case. Can the Minister explain this in more detail? Why is this urgency not described and why is it not linked to a deadline? A reporting obligation applies afterwards, if something has gone wrong or if something serious is threatening to go wrong, but what exactly are we doing in advance? Mrs Bouwmeester said that all this must take place in a safe and open environment. Recommendations have been made. The report is therefore called: Lessons for medical and scientific research with people in the Netherlands. According to the Minister, were the lessons learned from this? Finally, I would like to comment on the SP amendment. D66 is also a strong supporter of openness of transparency. The Minister said that what my colleague from the SP wants in her amendment is not possible because of a directive. Companies would then be able to obtain information sensitive to competition by means of a WOB request. There is, of course, a business interest, but that is not the general interest. In fact, demonstrating a failure can serve the public interest. How does the Minister prevent this from being completely blocked?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. Medical-scientific research cannot be ignored at this time. However, patients who participate do need guarantees and their interests must be protected by the government. We cannot leave this to the researchers themselves, because their interests are not the same as those of the patient. The interests of researchers often lie with themselves or with the research fund. In the last annual report of the Central Committee on Human Research, we read: "Quality of life is not yet or hardly a serious measure of outcome in medical scientific research." In this I see the different interests confirmed. The researcher wants to experiment, promote and publish. The quality of life of the subjects is not paramount. The Medical Scientific Research with People Act already included an obligation to report serious adverse events with medicinal products. The present legislative amendment extends this reporting obligation to research in the field of food products, devices, radiations and operating techniques. The PVV Group welcomes the fact that all adverse events are now recorded and reported. However, I do have a few more questions about this. Are all persons involved in medical research sufficiently aware of this by the performers and the performers? For example, are the criteria "serious' "Serious' "Serious' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' "Serve' Can the Minister confirm that there can be no misunderstandings about this? Is it also clear what the consequence is of not reporting? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Medical-scientific research should lead to new insights and ultimately better care. However, recent research has shown that 85% does not contribute to better care. Does the Minister see this as a problem? If not, why not? Is this not also an indication that high risk studies need to be handled even more carefully and that a study should always be stopped immediately in the event of a serious adverse event? I would also like to receive a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the Medical Scientific Research Act with people, and specifically about the reporting obligation. This duty will apply not only to the investigation of medicinal products but also to all other forms of human-related research. It actually makes a lot of sense for us to extend that validity, and it also makes a lot of sense. It is actually very sad that it took a very serious incident to get the legislator to agree to all forms of human research. This was a serious incident involving a probiotic study. Probiotics seem very harmless. For example, they are in many kinds of yogurt. However, let us not forget that medical interventions or devices can also have a serious impact on the human body. On the one hand, human-related research is very necessary. It's necessary for medical progress. It is necessary to be able to treat people who are not yet ready to be treated and to give them a better perspective. On the other hand, human-related research is risky. Participants are referred to as subjects in the law and should know what the risks are. That's well secured now. I thank the Minister for that. As far as the VVD is concerned, this bill could have been a hammer piece, not because we consider the proposal unimportant, but because we would like the proposal to be adopted in its entirety, i.e. in its present form. So I have no questions about the law itself. However, I do have one question in response to the answers we have received from the Minister. That question is about the protocols for the investigation. They'll be tested in advance. This is sometimes done by a local medical-ethical review committee and sometimes by the Central Committee on Human Research. The CCMO and the Dutch Association of Medical Ethics Review Committees have indicated that they will harmonise their procedures for reporting and assessing them. I think it would be very good if this were to happen, so that everyone knows that the same standards are always applied. This is important for the scientists, for companies that have research done, but also for the participants. A participant should know that the investigation is always conducted along the same good and uniform lines. I have a simple question on which I hope to get a good answer. What is the status of harmonization?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr. Chairman. Clinical-scientific research is important for the development of medicine. By doing research and testing new ideas, we get more insight, we can develop new medicines and better treatments are possible. With these new possibilities, we can treat patients better. Doing research also means exploring unknown territory. It means testing something that is thought to work, but has not yet been established with certainty. This is done very carefully and in steps: first in a laboratory and then in humans. Much is also done to protect the subjects from the risks of research. However, an increased mortality rate could have occurred in 2008 in the subjects receiving a study drug. It was, as has been said before, the administration of probiotics in patients with pancreatitis. The news came very unexpectedly and was a huge shock for all concerned. The Health Inspectorate has launched an investigation together with the Dutch Food and Service Authority and the Central Committee for Human Research. The main finding was that there was no obligation to report serious unexpected occurrences to the Review Committee, as is customary in the investigation of new medicinal products. Their recommendation was therefore that the timely reporting of serious occurrences should be regulated by law for all forms of investigation. Good procedures for reporting serious unexpected events occurring during the investigation play an important role in ensuring safety. The independent assessment of the events will help to better identify the risks and allow timely intervention. It is important that we ensure the right safeguards for safe investigation. It should not matter whether the study is for medicinal products or other forms of therapy to improve patients' experience. The safety of the subjects is equally important for all forms of research. The independent assessment of serious adverse events should therefore apply in the same way to all those types of research. This legislative proposal aligns the provisions on reporting serious events for non-drug research with those for pharmaceutical research. For example, it is clear to the researchers and other stakeholders what is expected of them. In order to ensure that unnecessary notifications cannot be made, agreements should be made with the Medical Ethics Committee on reporting obligations in each investigation. This committee shall also ensure that appropriate follow-up is given to the notifications. With this bill, the responsibilities for everyone are clear and also during the conduct of the research ensure good protection of the subject. The first question that has been asked is whether we should not delete the exceptions for notifications, as the legislative proposal makes it possible to make exceptions. Moreover, it must be substantiated in advance by checking why you want a certain exception to be made. So that's a safety valve. We are dealing with serious cases that are foreseen. Provide, for example, because they are part of the disease. If you're doing research with cancer patients, those people are supposed to be very seriously ill and that they can die. You can rule that out in advance. It's about serious and unwanted. An exception has indeed been introduced for studies which are expected to occur at a high rate of incidence. These include, for example, cancer medicines. In order to prevent too many notifications from being made to the Committee of Inquiry, the protocol which will be presented at a later date can be included. But this can only be done if the Committee of Inquiry considers this to be justified in advance. This has been included at the request of the review committees in order to prevent them from getting so many notifications that they no longer see the forest through the trees. I'm getting word from the METC and IGZ. The proposal is based on aligning the current reporting obligations in the field of pharmaceutical research. Notifications are made to the review committee that knows the file. It's the best way to assess reports. The inspection does supervise the system, but not the individual investigations. It says in the bill that METC can suspend the investigation in case of a report, not have to. The bill includes an obligation to suspend. The term "kan" only refers to cases where the investigation has already been terminated by the investigator himself. Suspension in the cases mentioned by Mrs Leijten is therefore compulsory, always. The criterion applies only to cases where the investigator has already completed the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u8	Then my question lapses on this point. I would like to return to what the Minister said about monitoring the inspection. She said that the inspection does not supervise individual cases but the system. I understand that, but how can the inspection monitor the system if she doesn't know everything? Of course, that is always a bit of a semantic discussion, but I think it is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u9	It's kicked. The METC will soon have an overview of this drug study, just as we now have an overview of the drug study. Serious situations should be reported. The inspection may carry out a sample or, in the light of the existing situation, examine whether the system is working. That's how we got a wake-up call from probiotics. In this case, the system doesn't work and so we're going to modify the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u10	Just with the case of probiotics in mind, I notice the following. If you agree that the inspection doesn't look at individual cases but does receive the notifications, only one push of a button is needed to get the Medical Ethics Review Committee to look at the matter in terms of content.The inspection from its system monitoring can say: we are actually getting a lot of reports about this research, from this region, about this researcher or about this hospital. I'm not asking for individual cases to be monitored. I would just point out that if the inspection has those reports, it can use them to carry out samples at the Medical Ethics Review Committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u11	You have to be careful that things happen twice. I understand what Mrs Leijten is referring to. System monitoring requires information. But the inspection can just request that information, just like she can at hospitals. It does not check everything that happens within a hospital, but it has system oversight, so it can intervene if it thinks that a hospital is not doing well or if it receives a notification about a particular hospital. Actually, the system here isn't much different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u12	A hospital must indeed report certain cases, such as an unexpected death. Then the hospital lets us know the possible cause and also what it does to prevent repetition. Often it passes through the inspection, because it thinks: I have faith in that institution, but I will take it with me in regular supervision. But then it was reported. That's kind of how I see this. I'd like to reconsider this with the Minister. I am not talking about double or extra work, but about knowing that there are many reports of serious incidents in these Medical Ethics Review Committees.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u13	Therefore, the inspection should also monitor systems. She needs to check that the system is working. Mrs Leijten intends to propose an annual review in her amendment. If it amends the amendment in such a way that the CCMO ensures that annual review, the inspection, which can carry out an interim review, can, on the basis of that additional check, therefore have a double check. I think it is a good idea to have an annual review, but I would ask Mrs Leijten to include it in her amendment on the CCMO. Otherwise we get it double, then both the inspection and the CCMO have to do it. The inspection must, of course, indicate in its report whether it has discovered anything in system monitoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have chosen the inspection from the proposal to always report it to the inspection, regardless of whether it is conducting its own investigation or leaving it to the Medical Ethics Review Committees. That annual review may also be the subject of the CCMO, which is not a matter of principle. I'll look into it. I have the amendment in draft in front of me. You know how it is, Mr. Chairman. It's got legal hooks and eyes on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yes, it can still be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u16	Exactly. Only my question remains: should the inspection, apart from the annual survey, not just get those reports in one cc's? I think that's what I'm here for anyway. The Minister says you don't have to. Let's see how this ends. Such an annual overview can indeed be invested elsewhere; for me this is not a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u17	I am in favour of a general and annual reporting obligation by the CCMO. I am therefore looking forward to the amendment on this. In my opinion, in the first or second term, my officials will be providing me with information on how the inspection now controls the main aspects. So I'll get back to you on that. Now my response to the amendment aimed at amending Article 29 of the Wmo, in order to allow the publication of inspection reports by appealing to the Public Administration Act. Article 29 is the implementation of a European Directive. That Directive shall not allow inspection reports to be provided to parties other than those referred to in Article 29. That is why I must advise against this amendment; it is contrary to European law. At the same time, I would like to point out that, at European level, we are looking at how we can achieve greater transparency in the drafting of the regulation and by the EEA. However, I can tell the Chamber that, in the spirit of this amendment, I will be committed to transparency. This amendment is therefore contrary to European law, but I understand what Mrs Leijten is trying to do with it. Perhaps it is an idea to convert the amendment. At the moment, I have no choice but to discourage it, but I can tell the Chamber that my commitment to the regulation will be in accordance with the amendment requested. How will business information be prevented from preventing transparency? This is actually about the same subject as Mrs Dijkstra's. The European Directive prescribes who may be given the report. The inspection report shall be known at the inspection, at the review committees and at the CCMO. That is how supervision is carried out. These parties shall have access to and use the data in their supervisory tasks. How do we prevent abuses from appearing because the inspection report is not made public? The reports shall be made available to the performers. In addition, the inspection report shall be provided to the said parties only on request, duly justified. These are other Member States, the CMO, the METCs and the Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products. Mrs Bouwmeester pays attention to the procedure before: how do you ensure a safe culture in which reports are made? The safety of subjects is important for everyone. By reporting to the review committee, that safety is guaranteed. The review committee will be given an important responsibility for this. The CCMO pays a great deal of attention to this in the direction of the researchers and the review committee. This is also addressed in the DCTF. This safe culture is further safeguarded by the fact that research can only take place if it is approved. It is also addressed by the recommendations on the basis of which we propose this legislative amendment. In addition, courses have been introduced that pay attention to this. One example is the BROK course: the Basic Regulatory Course and Organisation for Clinical Researchers. This is mandatory within university hospitals. In recent years, the CCMO and the Dutch association of the review committees have paid attention to this. This BROK course will be completed with an examination drawn up at national level. Researchers who do this with good results will receive a certificate. The NFU maintains a register of the certified researchers and the top clinical hospitals have joined. They are also working on the certification of their researchers. In 2012, the Dutch Clinical Trial Foundation drew up a master plan aimed at improving the preparation of human-related drug research. Since 2013, three working groups, consisting of representatives of the various field parties, have been working on this master plan. The working groups meet regularly to develop proposals aimed at improving the review process and everything related to it. By working together from different disciplines these are fruitful discussions that also show good results. The research infrastructure is a focus of particular attention in this process. Mrs Bouwmeester and Mrs Dijkstra had questions about the route ahead, the culture. With these courses and working groups, a great deal of attention is paid to this. At the end, you can take care of everything, but you also have to take care of everything in the form. So that's what all these master plans are for. Can it be reported to subjects in good time? That is, of course, extremely difficult, because it depends very much on what has happened. This can be negative and serious and the subjects must be informed very quickly. But the "timely" also refers to positive news or news that is a bit positive. Then it is less necessary to inform acutely. That's why this was left in the middle. Have lessons been learned from PROPATRIA? Following the PROPATRIA incident, consultations were held with the parties involved in the investigation. CCMO has anticipated a legislative amendment that already introduced and clarified reporting obligations. Since 2010, CCMO has already indicated that researchers should report serious, adverse events and adverse reactions that occur. It has rightly been said that it has been a long time, but in practice the reporting obligation has already been implemented. In addition, we have been working on awareness of the importance of timely reporting, including through training courses such as the BROK course, which I was just talking about. As a result, several parties have become more aware of the importance of rapid reporting. How does METC intervene well in notifications? What follow-up steps are being taken? Under the bill, serious adverse events are reported to the review committee. If the investigator does not take the necessary measures himself, the approval may be withdrawn. This also protects the safety of the subjects. What happens if the reporting obligation is not complied with? Failure to comply with the reporting obligation by an exporter or provider shall be punishable. It results in an offense for which prosecution is possible. As with other offences in this law, the maximum penalty is imposed on a six-month detention period or a fourth-category fine. Do performers and researchers know when to report? The review committee shall ensure that the method of reporting is properly defined in the protocol. It will all be dealt with in advance during the review. Then you have to file what your research involves and what protocols you follow. The researchers are well informed by information. So people have been working for some time, in anticipation of this law, with the obligation to notify. Are the criteria sufficiently clearly defined? What's a serious incident? Are misunderstandings prevented? What is meant by a serious undesirable event is clearly stated in the law and is known to the researchers. "Ernstig" means, in short, that it is a danger of life, that it is deadly or that there may be disability; all things you can think of in the word "serious." For the field it is clear, because this has been worked out in guidelines. What is the state of harmonisation of procedures? CCMO works together with NVMETC (Dutch Association of Medical Ethics Review Committees) to provide guidance for recognised METCs to assess the procedure for reporting serious adverse events. This concerns in particular the question of when a periodic summary report can be submitted instead of the submission of all individual reports. When chosen, the method should be described in the study protocol. That protocol should be approved in advance by the Review Committee. A proposal for that guidance is still under way. That guidance is expected to be finalised this year. There is a lot of consultation between the IGZ and the CCMO to determine the commitment through a risk analysis. The inspection shall monitor the examinations and take the examination with them. It can respond to incidents. The CCMO informs the inspection structurally. So the CCMO is first hand and the inspection is second hand. This was my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u19	My associate is ticking the final letters of my motion. I'm asking for a five-minute suspension to complete that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u20	Good. I note that everyone agrees with that. Then I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u21	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. However, a number of things are still open, for example, that you should always report and that there should actually be no exceptions. You can say that serious events may also occur that may be expected; then it must be approved in advance that no mention is made of them. I understand that, but there's still a risk in that. Is it really that unexpected? Is it related to the disease, or is it related to the research being done? I assume that the review committees look at this very carefully and are reluctant not to have to report it. There is a risk in this: look at what has happened in the research on probiotics. I will amend my amendment on the inclusion of notifications and an annual reporting of the CCMO. It will be sent around today in the course of the day or perhaps tomorrow. If there are any wordings in it that the Ministry or the CCMO can't handle, please let me know, because I think we agree on this and we can add this to the legislative proposal. The amendment to the effect that the inspection reports should be available, i.e. available, will be withdrawn if this is not possible under the European directive. I have heard the Minister's promise. I understand that the directive will expire soon and that a new directive will be introduced. Of course, we always have our own space to lay down additional rules for the Netherlands. I ask the Minister to keep the Chamber informed of the new directive and the transparency requirements. I think everyone feels the same way. Reports of serious events may also be relevant for future research. That is why it is good if the report is available. As I said in the first term, it is really not about the company data, profit margins or the names of persons; it is about the lessons to be learned. They shouldn't be kept secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u22	I run the risk of undermining Mrs Leijten's nuance at the end. I'm a little worried about that point. If public access goes so far as to affect business data, can Mrs Leijten imagine that such investigations will no longer take place in the Netherlands, especially if we do not harmonise it within Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u23	It's a chicken or egg story. If you show that this is possible without the pharmaceutical industry or other industry participating in this type of research, it may also be about tools; Mr Rutte rightly said that in his term of office he would harm.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If we can show that it can be done, and I am convinced that it can be done, we can be a shining example for Europe. Above all, let us send the Minister with the message to settle it in the directive. We know, of course, that the lobby of business, the big industry in Europe, can be very massive. A new directive may lead to the importance of business data in relation to research data. I ask the Minister, within the limits of the directive, to look for ways of ensuring as much transparency and openness as possible in the implementation of the directive for the Netherlands. It is not a matter of publication, but of obtaining research reports. So what we are asking for is already very kicked. There will be no teletext on which company has commissioned what research for what amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u24	I understand the search. Can I interpret Mrs Leijten's appeal in this way? This may lead to a competitive disadvantage, allowing companies to decide not to conduct this investigation in the Netherlands. I understand her in such a way that she says: it is not necessary, it is really about transparency, about treatment perspective and about risks for the patient, no more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u25	I think we're in agreement. I would add that it is also about the learning element for medical science. If there have been serious incidents in a particular study and if a scientist can request that information, he can involve them in his research, allowing him to cover those risks or even prevent him from running them. That's what it's really about. I also had an interruption debate with the Minister on the last point. What exactly is the matter with the inspection system monitoring and can you monitor something if you don't know? I have expressed in a motion how I would prefer to see it, and I would like to hear from the Minister what she thinks about it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that serious unexpected and adverse events may occur during medical research;]] [[Considering that serious unexpected and adverse events should be reported to the Medical Ethics Review Committee (METC);]] [[considers that the IGZ should be aware of these notifications from its system monitoring;]] [[calls on the Government to require investigators to send a copy of all serious unexpected and adverse events to the IGZ,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33646-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u26	So I'm not talking about extra work or doing the research again. I am particularly concerned that the inspection should know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u27	Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u28	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u29	I still need the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u30	It's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u31	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten spoke of being 'wobble'. So this is about the new regulation on clinical trials. It was published in 2014 and has yet to apply. That is what we are discussing in Europe, because more transparency is being given. There is now talk about how it is going to work, about what'more transparency' means. So we are going to go along with the message contained in the amendment. That is the message that we have our commitment to this. In addition, EEA is working towards greater transparency. We also have this commitment. I can also explain why we have this commitment. We are not concerned at all with business-sensitive data, but with learning ability. The point is that you don't do the same thing again with the same deaths in the same investigation, because you didn't exchange knowledge. So I think we agree on that. Then the motion to part No. 8. I like that motion, but I can't see it. We have a three-stage missile in the investigation. The first stage of the research is that there is a structural consultation between the inspection and the CCMO. A risk analysis is already being carried out in this consultation. This concerns questions such as: what research is to be carried out, where do we see the risks and where will the inspection focus its efforts? The second stage is that the inspection is monitoring systems at the research institute. They're generally hospitals. The third stage is that incidents and emergencies must be reported. I say quite honestly that we cannot see it so quickly. There are experts who indicate that this really is an enormous amount. On the other hand, I think "challenges" seems the same to me. I would actually like to ask whether the vote on this motion could be held. Then I will ask the CCMO what this motion implies and what it actually means. Does this mean you're totally jammed because you're getting so many reports? We all don't want that. Or does it mean something that we all want, namely that the inspection can be monitored properly? I can't look over that. I cannot therefore give an opinion on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u32	I don't think that's a problem. Let us continue with that vote. Get on with the conversation, Minister, and let us know when it is possible, because there are also deadlines. I don't think it's on tomorrow or next week. Then we will vote on it if the Minister can see the consequences. It may also lead to the motion being dropped because the consequences are too great, but I would like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u33	I shall return to this in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u34	At the request of Mrs Leijten, I propose her motion (33646, No. 8) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u35	We will, of course, look at the amendment in good consultation when we have it in. I think this is a good idea, too. If anything has to change, we still have discussions about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-22-tweedekamer-4.u36	Then we have come to the end of this debate. We will be voting on the legislative amendment next week. I thank the Minister, the MPs and the people in the public gallery.
