ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome all those present in the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and the people who are following this debate in a different way. Fourteen speakers have spoken for this debate. We have allocated speaking time in advance. I propose that we try to limit the number of interruptions to three. I understand this can't always happen, but I also know that sometimes it can be done faster. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Roemer of the SP. Before Mr Roemer gets the floor, I have something to say. I have now welcomed all those present in the Chamber, but I forgot to welcome the members of the cabinet in particular. Thank you for accepting my invitation again this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week we had a debate on the large number of refugees who are currently coming to Europe or are already in Europe. Thousands, tens of thousands of refugees are knocking at the borders of Europe or anywhere else. They're on the run from war and misery. They are fleeing shelters in the region, because the situation there is unbearable. There is a lack of everything: water, food, education. I've been wondering what I'd do if I was in a camp like that. Chances are I'd be looking for a better life, too. Everyone is struggling with this problem, because there are many questions and many concerns, but we have nothing to worry about. We need solutions, however difficult and complicated. Can the Prime Minister indicate what was agreed last Monday in Brussels on the reception of refugees? Can he explain why the Foreign Minister speaks of a dramatic outcome, whereas the Prime Minister seemed rather satisfied? Has more been agreed than the intention to accommodate 40,000 people; an agreement that was already made in July? Is it true that agreements have been made to rapidly improve reception in the region? What action is really being taken in the coming days to achieve this? How we deal with the rapidly growing number of refugees is a symbol of the deadlock in European and Dutch politics. So much drama, so much human suffering, do not call for bickering among themselves, but for measures and solutions to tackle the cause of the flow of refugees, significantly improve reception in the region and not leave people to their fate. I hope, therefore, that the Prime Minister will say that something will happen today and not just somewhere in October at the earliest. I'd like to get a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is unbelievable, but Mr Roemer really hasn't learned a millimetre and he hasn't improved anything about his fairy tales from last week. Also the SP-chooser does not seem to want more asylum seekers to come to the Netherlands. We all know they're not pathetic people without food and water. If they already exist, they can do better in the region than here. But every day we see on television that most of the people to whom it is said: you are now safe here in Serbia, answers: yes, but I want to go to Germany because I want a better job and a better economy. Fairy tales, Mr. Roemer. You begin your main contribution to the most important debate of the year again with a lot of nonsense and fairy tales. May I ask you, when will it be enough for the SP? When will the borders close and there will be no more asylum seekers in the Netherlands? When is that time for your group?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	I know the stories by now. Of course, I should have known by now that Mr Wilders would be the first to rise. There is a great human problem in the world and especially in the Middle East. Mr. Wilders was in the front row to wage war and throw bombs. He was even in favour of us taking military action in Iran. And then he finds it strange that refugee flows arise. If we say together that decent care must be provided in the region and that we must ensure that people do not have the need to move forward, then the PVV is not at home to ensure that money goes to those regions. So do not turn me on, Mr Wilders, saying that we must leave people to their fate when the problem is so great. Yes, we should start by addressing the causes in the region. We must ensure that there is good reception in the region. So there has to be more money there, but people who are now here, I don't let them sleep under a bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	I haven't heard the beginning of an answer. I had a very simple question, a question that also interests a lot of SP voters in the country. I'm getting e-mails from SP pickers. They write: what is Mr Roemer doing? We do not want all those testosterone bombs that Mr Rutte brings in in our village, which makes it unsafe for our daughters and women to go down the street. I'm asking him after the man. A lot of SP voters just want him to give an answer to that and not to kiss away, dive away, in prepared answers. What, when? How many asylum seekers are still welcome as far as Mr Roemer is concerned and when does the SP say 'enough is enough, the borders are closing, no more asylum seekers in the Netherlands'? When does Mr Roemer say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Wilders, it is never possible to say how a flow of refugees goes today or tomorrow. Yes, we take the sounds and the questions in and of the Netherlands seriously. If a COA is unable to cope with this, then we must look at it, but do not sit here and tell me that the Netherlands or Europe cannot cope with a flow of refugees. Don't sit around saying people can only come here. People are fleeing war and violence. We are talking about people here, Mr Wilders. What the PVV keeps doing is throwing bombs on a powder keg, but then looking away when a refugee flow arises. We're not in on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	Do you know what you're doing, Mr. Roemer? You're throwing a bomb on the Netherlands. And that's much more dangerous. You're throwing an asylum bomb on the Netherlands. The Dutch can't handle that. They don't want that anymore. 3,100 a week, Mr. Roemer. That's over 100,000, that's 150,000 a year. They come into the neighborhoods where the common people live; they suffer from it. By your answer, you're actually saying to all those SP'ers: you can fuck off, SP, you can fuck off, because I'll make sure the boundaries stay open forever. They are not refugees, at least, they are not all refugees. It is people who simply say on television that we are going to the Netherlands or Germany because it is doing better economically there. They're economically driven people. Your answer is clear: you abandon the SP again and you say "come in all of you." Good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr Wilders, if you really want to solve the problems in the Netherlands, you need to stop bombing a powder keg, creating more refugees. Then you must stop sowing hatred in the Netherlands and turning people against each other. The fact that one and the other are looking for a house is not due to one or the other, that is because there are too few rentals. And why are there too few rentals, Mr Wilders? Because when you were in the cabinet, you made sure that these were sold massively. Those are the problems. Then take it and help solve the problems here rather than sow hatred and turn people against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	Ah, that "hate sow"...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yeah, I know you don't like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Roemer, Mr Wilders has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	Indeed, it is not very strong if he blurts through it. But do you know why there aren't enough rentals, Mr. Roemer? Because those asylum seekers all get priority from the SP. Last week or a few weeks ago, my colleague Madlener asked your colleague, Mrs Gesthuizen or Mrs Karabulut, in a debate: does the SP say that asylum seekers should be given priority in rental homes? Mrs Karabulut's answer was: yes; my answer may be short, the SP is before it. So the SP is in favour of asylum seekers getting priority and that Dutch people, all those SP'ers and a lot of others waiting for a rental house, are waiting longer. That's what you're doing, that's why there's a shortage of homes. You abandon your own electorate and you let asylum seekers go first. You should be ashamed of that. It's a shame the SP picker will take care of you hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	It's a shame, Mr. Wilders, that you just didn't read the rest of Mrs. Karabulut's fantastic answer. It says that people in need must be helped. One in 20. But it is not a question of dividing up the scarcity. There's scarcity. Why is there scarcity in social housing? Because the PVV in Rutte I has chosen that all social housing should be sold. You were in favour of a landlord's tax, so corporations can't build it. Don't tell me there aren't enough rentals. The PVV was responsible for that, and no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u14	I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Roemer and the SP. Firstly, his sincere concern for the refugee problem and the search, with others, for what can be done about it and what we can contribute. The second compliment relates to the counter-budget of the SP. It's been passed on...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yeah, there's not much to say!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u16	We know what happened last year. You have listened carefully, you have passed it on, so a great compliment. There are groups in the Chamber which I believe can take another example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u18	I do have a question for you. A calculated counter-budget makes even more clear what the choices made by the SP are, and also how realistic they are. How do you assess the budget of the cabinet when it comes to the issue of refugees, the first-year reception of asylum seekers here in the Netherlands, but also the reception in the region, which you rightly asked attention to? How do you assess the budgets, the figures of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u19	First of all, thank you, Mr Slob, for the kind remarks; they do me good. Doing so one learns, sometimes called. This is a very fair question. We have also been struggling with this in the group, because of course you do not know what is going to happen. There's a fund that's already got money in it. The cabinet will pay extra money in 2016 and 2017. We have added another 100 million to our counter-budget for poverty abroad. If that's enough, I'm afraid to say. I think we can move forward for now. I'd like to hear from the cabinet if it is. But with you, I think tomorrow could be really different. And if it's different and it's necessary, we'll really go together and find a solution not to let people sleep under a bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u20	I can tell Mr Roemer this already: it is not enough. Why not? Because we are already way above the assumptions that the cabinet has used for the amounts. So there are already major problems for the shelter here in the Netherlands. But when it comes to reception in the region, I do not see any extra money in the budget for that. In fact, if you compare the current budget with next year's budgets, we'll even go back. You must have seen that, too, right? There is 100 million for international, but the development cooperation budget is being cut to 750 million and we are going to go on to 1 billion. I like the Minister. So you accept 650 million in cuts. My question to you is therefore: how thoughtful is this? Who knows, maybe even during these days we can add up those amounts. Because I'm going to give you a note saying that this is really necessary. On this major issue, this cabinet is quite wrong with the budgets it has sent for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Slob, I can imagine that together we're going to look very seriously at what we can improve. It is very difficult to indicate what is needed in the coming period, but this is a subject in which we as a Chamber have to keep our finger on the pulse, together with the cabinet. As I said in my text: there is no use bickering in such an area; if there is human suffering, you must be able to react and act immediately. So I fully agree with you. I would also like to hear from the cabinet whether it shares the view that it is already clear that it is too little to improve it in the region, because the Netherlands is not the only player. Together with the United Nations and all countries, we will have to do something about it and look at what is needed. I await your proposals and will look at them with a great deal of positivism. This brings me to the budget. We have a very special debate this year, I said to the Prime Minister. We already know what the Prime Minister will answer our questions tomorrow morning, because not only are the plans for this year, but also the propaganda of the government has been leaked: tomorrow the Prime Minister must say that we are back in the leading group and the Prime Minister must say that prosperity is being balanced. Tomorrow, however, the Prime Minister will stress that we must remain sober: the cabinet is handing out presents, but there is little reason for partying. The Prime Minister must therefore say that we are economically back in the leading group, but that is not true. The Central Planning Office is talking about a catch-up. We've been chasing other countries for years. Then you know that when the Prime Minister uses the word "head group" tomorrow. The Prime Minister of the PvdA must therefore say tomorrow that prosperity is being balanced. That is not true either, because next year, too, the people who make the most money will be making the most progress. A person with an income of about two tonnes is even getting 20 times better in euros than someone who earns the minimum wage. Then you will know that when the Prime Minister talks about balance tomorrow. But above all, the Prime Minister is going to stress that we must remain sober, because the cabinet is handing out some presents, but there is little reason for a party. The Prime Minister is absolutely right. There is little cause for celebration, even if there are some sensible comments, some sensible proposals, in the plans of the cabinet. Let me say that, too. The tax on capital and savings becomes a lot fairer, a bit, because real fair taxation of capital gains is still not done by the government. There will be extra money for childcare payments and the employment discount will go up. That is good news and many people will also notice this much-needed relief. It is also right that the AIVD should be given more resources. Parties in the Lower House, including the SP, have often asked for this. We also know that the Prime Minister is going to say that we must keep course, but that is where we really separate our paths, because keeping course on this road is exactly what the Netherlands does not need. Anyone who analyses the direction of the cabinet must note that it is still in line with a process started in our country in the 1990s. A process of privatisation, market forces and autonomy of the public sector. A process of growing inequality and growing contradictions in society, with a downgrading of the role of the community and a farewell to the responsibility of politics. The market could do anything better. Former Prime Minister Wim Kok looked back on it with some shame in recent weeks, and rightly so. This process of market forces and deregulation would be an excellent means of reforming the economy and public services. It should lead to greater efficiency, lower prices, better quality and higher economic growth. Now, many years later, more and more people are asking what the price of this policy is. What did this wave of privatisation and market forces cost society? What are the effects in health care? Does this not lead to a reduction in solidarity and increased costs and bureaucracy? What does this mean for the healthcare professional and the relationship with the patients? What are the consequences for people's working conditions and conditions? What influence do people still have on important economic decisions? What remains of our democracy, of people's control over their work and environment? The market is a suitable means for many products, but through the market you cannot organize society. The market has no morality, no public interest and no solidarity. In a society, profit and greed should not be the main drivers, but public interest. This should not focus on short-term profits, but on the sustainability of public services and the service to the people. Look around you and see what has been set up: a derailed financial sector that has cost people billions and has disrupted society; a messed-up healthcare system in which the health insurance companies have sat down in the chair of doctors, in which more and more people lose the right to care or can no longer afford the much-needed care. We have had a parliamentary survey on the misery of housing corporations, the gritty behaviour of directors and the growing demand for affordable housing. We have a growing inequality: 10% of the Dutch own more than 66% of all wealth, 60% of the Dutch together have less than 1%. More than 400,000 children are now living below the poverty line in our country. More and more people are suffering from huge debts. We've got a big rise in unemployment. The cabinet of "work, work, work" has allowed unemployment to grow in three years with 100,000 people. Fewer and fewer people have permanent jobs. Since the outbreak of the crisis in 2008, there have been 600,000 fewer people with a fixed contract. There are 18-year-olds who work in a grocery store, who are laid off, who are told that they are too expensive and that they are 18 years old. Meanwhile, many new developments are emerging in society. Society does not stand still, but wants to continue. More and more people are well aware that society cannot be built on selfishness and self-interest, but rather on caring for another and trusting one another. We should embrace and support this mentality in politics. More and more people are fed up with machos and managers coming to tell them why something can't, which makes them feel why their opinion doesn't matter. Society is crying out for a social policy that appreciates people's experiences and gives people the confidence they want. Without trust, that is not possible, trust in each other and in society. This means that we can count on the necessary care and good education, that we can live in a safe neighborhood and rely on a dignified old age. Trust means an economy with real jobs, where people can commit to a company that is also theirs, that you can get a normal job that normally allows you to live, where you get appreciation for your work and where your boss doesn't earn a hundred times more than you do. Anyone who needs a sheltered workplace should keep that possibility. 'Cause it's possible. We can ensure that the necessary influx of people who cannot find a job outside a sheltered working environment in the Netherlands is guaranteed. This can also be done in cases where municipalities have not sufficiently regulated this. Hence our proposal for an emergency fund. We can work on real jobs, on fixed contracts for permanent work, instead of flex contracts for insecure work. This can be done by making permanent work more profitable than flexwork. We want the social minimum to rise, so that poverty is combated and we can shut down food banks, so that people who perform according to wealth are paid normally. We can tackle the growing inequality instead of increasing it. We need to build such a society, starting next year, and certainly after that. That takes guts, that takes courage, but above all political will. They are all political choices. It is particularly painful for the cabinet to insist on opportunities for all, but at the same time to allow the elderly and beneficiaries to pay the biggest bill of the crisis next year: a tough neoliberal policy that punishes the elderly and job seekers while making the highest incomes very much better. After years of crisis, we must make room for this new social policy, in which we can offer people new security. Society is crying out for solutions to major issues. Ask people how they feel about care and they say that cooperation is better than market forces and that care should be affordable for everyone. Parents and students, teachers and students, they want fewer managers and more control. They don't want puff classes, they want a good contact between student and teacher. We can do that too. We can show that if we dare to choose. Students have taken on their responsibilities and rebelled for better education and more democracy. And what good is a Minister of Education saying that more participation of students and teachers would destroy universities and colleges? Ask people how they want our tax system to work. The vast majority of the population want a green system that makes our economy more sustainable and our country cleaner, but above all a fairer system that does not make differences between rich and poor bigger but smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u22	In the meantime, I have read with interest the counter-budget of the SP and I am incredibly pleased that the SP also invests in education this time. Mr Roemer and I have faced each other quite often in relation to the SP election programme in which 1 billion savings were made on education. Now there's investment. I also see that the funding of studies is no longer being reversed, and that is also good for me. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u23	First of all, on the counter-budget: D66 would have done the same. Apparently, she didn't have the guts to pass it on, and that's too bad. Now we set a good example and then D66 is left behind, but that aside. Let me also say right away that what D66 has broken down in three years cannot be repaired in three months. Thirdly, in the 2016 budget, the proceeds of that terrible loan system are barely or not, and I would like to reverse that. You are taking educational improvements out of students' pockets by letting them be deeply indebted. We do not choose to do so now, we do not choose to do so in the future, and if we have the chance, we will indeed reverse that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u24	It sounds a little messy to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u25	Well, that's really up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u26	It sounds a little confusing to me, because the SP first cut 1 billion in education. The SP campaigned against the study advance. And now we are going to have a budget which I think is very good, but the measures are not being reduced. We heard yesterday in the Throne speech that it will create 4,000 jobs. And that was very well calculated at D66. A lot more jobs! I would remind the Socialist Party of that, too. Bet on that, even in education. Come aboard, but be honest about not turning back that student funding; you accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u27	No, never and never. It's nice, isn't it? The SP invests more than D66............................................................................................................................................................................................. A further 3,500 jobs will be added to us, on top of that of the cabinet, so embrace that and join in. In the future, let's get that straightened out. I also take the challenge with you to really improve education, because there is much to shift and improve there. Look at all those real estate projects, look at that huge boom of managers in education and look at the bureaucracy in education. My group has been calling for this to be looked at for years. At that point, D66 is left behind, and that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u28	I'm trying to agree with you, but there's a pebble in your shoe. You've been sitting in your shoe for a year with a pebble, because last year it was shown that the SP's plans had not been calculated. I am building on the agreements I have concluded with the cabinet; I have arranged an additional 600 million for education. You accept all that because someone else has already taken care of it. That's the difference. Then there's another pebble in your shoe that's bothering you. You do not think about it for a moment and say: listen carefully to what I say; let us work together. Be honest about education and say that you simply accept the study funding in your counter-budget, calculated and well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u29	The latter is a pity; it is a real horror to abolish student funding and make students in debt for hundreds of millions. I hope that we will find that out together and that we will really abolish that idea. Young people need to learn a profession; not burden them with huge debts. Isn't it time for the biggest companies finally to pay a fair share of the costs? They are taking full advantage of all the facilities in our country and have only begun to pay less tax in recent years. The SP wants to introduce a millionaire tax next year and thereby ensure that the highest incomes finally contribute to the social welfare system in our country. The increased VAT is still a burden on many consumers and entrepreneurs. If we want to boost the economy, VAT will have to be reduced next year. The SP wants to take care of that. It is good for people's purchasing power and because people can buy more, the turnover of SMEs increases. There will eventually be a lot more jobs and we will hit three birds with one stone. People don't want an oil-damaged planet, oceans polluted by plastic. They want political solutions for clean energy and less pollution. However, this does not happen or is insufficient. The laws of the market seem increasingly to stand in the way of the democratic desire of a sustainable society. Society is looking for new and renewable energy sources, but politics is looking for the energy source of the last century with large energy companies. Our smartest minds are not looking for renewable energy, but for oil resources in the North Pole. Russia sends warships to that area because it can claim a piece. How nineteenth-century do you want it? The wait is for a cabinet that dares to take the step towards real sustainability, but let us hope that it will start next year. Make sure that not only ordinary citizens but also large consumers will pay a decent tax on the energy they consume. We can wait, but we can just act. In a social and safe society, we are thrifty and proud of the more than 50,000 police officers who are ready for us every day. I think it is wonderful to see that, in their struggle for a decent collective agreement, the agents get so much support from the people. That support is justified. Our agents demand appreciation and a decent reward for the risky work they do for us. They need that appreciation. For some of them, a small wage increase now leads to a fall in pension rates of up to 15%. That is a cigar from its own box, which is rightly not accepted. Officers are gonna be loud again today. The absence of a collective agreement creates negative safety effects. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister when he's finally gonna listen to the cops. Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that the function of police officer is a high-risk profession? The entire criminal justice chain is under severe pressure. The problems with the police are huge. There is hardly any investment in vocational development. The consequences are visible and palpable. This also applies to the Dutch Forensic Institute, you know, the Dutch CSI. Yesterday, an alarming report showed that cuts in the Public Prosecutor's Office are not justified. However, all alarm signals are ignored. When is the time for the cabinet to conclude that the cuts in security and justice are no longer justified? Our safety is under pressure. It is threatened by people who abhor our freedom and want to force their delusions on us. The Second Chamber and the Cabinet have now almost completely reversed the austerity on the AIVD and made new investments possible. That is an important step that the SP welcomes. However, like the General Court, I say that the damage is great and that it will take years before it is repaired. In the meantime, we can see that cooperation between security services in Europe is still raging. The attackers in Paris, Copenhagen and Brussels were all known to the secret services, but they were able to enter with their kalashnikov's premises and cause misery. We do not catch Jihadists with detection gates in the stations, but with intelligence services that are well equipped and optimally cooperate with services in Europe and in other countries. I would like to hear a response from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u30	That is a justified criticism by Mr Roemer of the budget for security and justice. I think he will not be the only one in that today, because there are many points of criticism. I would like to broaden security a little and talk to Mr Roemer about safety in Groningen. That's what I'm gonna link to the gas drills. What is the SP's ambition for next year when it comes to gas drilling?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u31	Last year we laid down our ambitions in detailed plans. This means reducing gas extraction in the long term, and that means creating a large fund to ensure that people are compensated for their damage. We have laid down these plans here several times, but unfortunately we have still not received a majority for them. We still stand by those plans. We know that the cabinet will come up with plans in December. Hopefully the plans will go in that direction. If not, in December we will re-establish this in the direction we, I believe, want with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u32	The SP's plans are indeed known, I think they even have the title 'Schouders under Groningen'. We are also aware of the motions tabled by the SP on the ambition for gas drilling for next year. It is the billions of squab that the SP would like to get out of the ground next year. In this context, the SP wants less than the cabinet, it wants to go back to 27 billion cubic metres, and then back even further in the longer term. But where is this ambition in the counter-budget of the SP? What does it show? If the SP really is serious about this and wants to take a step in it, it must also make money available in its counter-budget. Can Mr Roemer help me because I didn't come across it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u33	It's not that sharp in it, but we're still definitely gonna find it. That is why we have also said that we expect the government to take those measures in December. We will work together with the Christian Union to ensure that this is also the case at the time. We've repaired as much as we can, done as much as we can. We can't fix everything that doesn't happen in that short time, but our commitment remains the same. It remains in line with what we have always proposed in the Chamber, with motions and supported and all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u34	I hear Mr Roemer saying that it is not so sharp, but it just doesn't say anything about it. So certainly not razor sharp. I was just rather mild when it came to the international aspect, about the reception of refugees. Mr Roemer spoke about this, but he did not deliver on the choices made by the SP in the counter-budget. It is far from what Mr Roemer actually has in ambition. Maybe we can get into that together. Gas is a subject that has been spoken of in great terms over the past year. And rightly so, because something is happening in Groningen. Trust needs to be restored, we need to go back with those gas drillings. But then the SP would certainly have to include a small billion in its counter-budget to bring gas extraction back to that 27 billion cube. Now the SP accepts the 33 billion from the cabinet. A missed opportunity, Mr Roemer!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u35	I didn't hear a question. It's still a big point, it's still a sensible point. In fact, we have also mentioned earlier that it is even so important for us that a slight increase in public debt, as far as we are concerned, even at that time...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u36	Then I'll ask the question. In my view, Mr Slob's interruption did contain a question. How much cuub does the SP want back last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u37	A minimum of 30 billion cubic metres. And we've suggested, if possible, going to 27 billion cube. Especially in the long run.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u38	At least to 30 billion cubs, fine. And that's supposed to happen next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u39	If only you could! Together with you, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u40	Whether it's possible or not, it has to do with the choices we make. It has to do with what we are cutting, whether we are cutting the deficit or increasing the burden. That's why we're making counter-budgets. Even if it is not in the counter-budget, I do not think that at all you are prepared to go there with each other to look for cover....
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u41	Let's be clear, sir...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u42	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u43	Sorry, go ahead, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u44	Apology accepted. That wasn't necessary. So we're gonna see if we can at least bring it down even further. As far as my group is concerned, we are going to 23 billion cubic metres.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u45	That's very ambitious, that's okay. I think we have very good, detailed plans. I am also of the opinion that those who make the most of it may be charged. That is what we have always said. If the cabinet in December falls short of what is to be done and what is a very broad wish in the Chamber, but certainly also in the north of the country, then we will move together with your group and that of the Christian Union and lay down the bill wherever it is most deserved. Because that's what the cabinet keeps refusing to do. Then we'll be at the front with you. Whether we're going to get 23 cubs next year I'm afraid to promise you, but I'd be happy to wait for your proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u46	We'll see. We have already presented these proposals. But I am, of course, happy, as often do, to see side by side with Mr Roemer how we can achieve that. The point is that we do not have the luxury of waiting until December, because if we really want to deal with something, then we need to do it now in the budget...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u47	Yeah, but the beauty is... Sorry, I'm doing it again!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u48	A colleague would say: now you are doing it again! It is, of course, a question of how we can incorporate this into the budget now, because it is just a lot of money. Perhaps you will come back to that later today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u49	No, I do not need to go back on that, Mr Klaver, we agree. Something must be done there and together we must find those solutions. I hope that the cabinet will not be left behind, so I hope that it has actually taken that signal and that we do not need to correct the cabinet. That's all we want to go to together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u50	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u51	There are few subjects in which the cabinet is a greater nuisance than in the care sector. The cabinet wants more market forces in the care sector, as the Prime Minister recently confirmed. People who depend on care or who work in care want the exact opposite. 800,000 people signed the petition Red the care. Patients want freedom of choice. That's not choosing between four colossal insurers who decide for you what care you get and where you get it. Freedom of choice is free doctor choice, which doctor or hospital you go to. People don't want to take enormous risks of their own, they want to have a social care system. Older people want good care at home or a safe place in the nursing home, but that freedom has been removed by the cabinet with one stroke of pens. Home care is completely undressed and many thousands of dedicated home caregivers are thrown out without a pardon. A scheme that looks to the future shows that people are getting older, but also that our older people are becoming more active and looking for social contacts. Then the government should not shut down nursing homes massively, but should make good, small-scale and cozy care possible. No large-scale care plants but a friendly and welcoming place where elderly people can feel at home. I received a beautiful letter from residents, employees and volunteers from a care centre in the Haarlemmermeer. They like that the cabinet is expressing its opinion on nursing home care, but they cannot speak about the solution of an hour's attention to nursing home residents. "Attention is not something you can catch in a jar," they write in the letter, which was also sent to the Secretary of State. "That's why a little attention is not what we need in care," it goes on, "we're looking for ways to make the residents stay human, instead of becoming a patient." It's words that have been taken from my heart. They symbolise this cabinet's lack of vision of good care. Now just as quickly invest 210 million euros to make beautiful decorations and a year later take 250 million off again. In order to organise the care more sensible and economical, we propose to break the power of health insurers. We're gonna put that in a basic public insurance policy. This puts care in good hands, care staff and patients. Public basic insurance is feasible and affordable for everyone. In addition, we need to introduce a basic municipal package so that people are entitled to good care everywhere. So you know where you're at, wherever you live. But now you get plenty of support in one place and in the other place everything is cut. Let the Prime Minister explain that. We can introduce an income-dependent care premium and eliminate our own risk. So it is possible if we choose to do so. This cabinet makes other choices. It has made many major changes, such as decentralisation and the transfer of care tasks to municipalities. But then far too fast and with far too little resources and far too few people. According to the National Ombudsman, this type of major change simply forgets the citizen. I repeat: the citizen is simply forgotten. The Ombudsman is right. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister's reaction to this. Thinking in numbers and systems, money and return leads people to disappear from the picture. But the Netherlands is not a BV and politics is more than management. The human measure must return to politics. If things go wrong somewhere, people deserve our protection. It's possible. The Chamber supported our proposal to better protect whistleblowers and allow independent investigation into abuses. The SP's proposals to address bonuses, reduce the influence of public sector consultants and limit top income in the public sector can count on increasing support. They can even count on the Prime Minister's support. That's very nice, but not enough to regain people's trust. It's gonna take more than that. Bankers have undermined people's confidence in the financial sector, but these bankers are now richer than ever in our country. Real measures to regulate the financial sector remain out. A travelling circus of directors and managers, consultants and advisors has settled everywhere in the public sector. The hardest growing profession in our country is that of care manager. Party political appointments are still the order of the day. A new policy also calls for a new mentality, a new mentality in the board, serviceable directors. Drivers who are less concerned with their own career and their own wallet and have more heart for people and for the public business. Drivers helping people look for ways to do it. Those people are full of them. I spoke to them at the visits I made for writing my book. Entrepreneurs who show that a successful company goes hand in hand with good employership and with permanent jobs. Caretakers who prove that you can come to better care with courage and resistance to market thinking, more human and more personal. I am glad that the economy is attracting and that the cabinet has a little more room to invest, but our country needs more than a little adjustment on the wrong road. We're at a crossroads. We have to make fundamental choices. Due to strong differences of opinion between VVD and PvdA, the cabinet does not give home on crucial issues. This government has thus become an obstacle force. The presents are divided, the fut is out. This cabinet has no answer to major issues such as inequality and unemployment. Then you're in the way. Society needs a government that sees new developments in society, recognises the need for social security, a society where employers and workers want to invest in each other and people want to take care of each other. If one in five elderly people is looking for security in a cozy nursing home, we're gonna make sure these houses get there. If thousands of workers need a sheltered workplace, we are going to make sure that those workplaces are there. If we think that some children in the class need extra attention and guidance, then we should give teachers the opportunity to offer it and schools the means to pay for it. If we find it unacceptable that in a rich country like the Netherlands, 400,000 children should grow up below the poverty line, we will do so. If society proves that sustainability works, then we should not let the government go to court, but let action be taken. If people want to tackle growing inequality, then we have to answer it and reduce the differences. If people want a society built on solidarity and trust, then we must and can answer that. At least we're ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u52	I thought it was a nice and warm plea from Mr Roemer for a human approach to care. Leaders sometimes have too little eye for what is going on in the workplace. Mr Roemer has made a lot of work visits in the care sector. Does he also recognise that bad managers often only call themselves names in The Hague and that they are responsible for the cuts?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u53	I would not like to draw that conclusion, Mr Van der Staaij. I have also seen very nice examples. I have also seen a lot of good executives who grumbling just as loudly because they see that they simply have too few people, too few hands on the bed for the care they want and have to give every day. Those people say the whole system sucks. The care is not too expensive, but the care system is too expensive. They say: make sure that we are less controlled and that there is less distrust in care. Just let our professionals in the workplace do their job. They should not fill out eight forms for each aspirin.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u54	The SP is always strong in the use of the word divisive. If I make work visits in the care, I'm gonna run into a dichotomy. There are people who do say: it's only in the money. There are others, too, who say: hey, how crazy, we can create a completely different culture with the same money. How is it that there is so much dissatisfaction among people in the workplace, who want to devote all that attention and love to people, about the fact that they do not feel supported by their own management layer?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u55	That's a very good question. I've been to a lot of institutions. Let me give two examples. One institution has had the nerve not to go along with the huge scale increase and fusion wave. The care home in question has remained a one-pitter, where everyone knows each other. The director knows the employees and the employees know the residents. They pay attention to each other. They come out with the money. Why? Because they have a very low threshold in terms of management layers and bureaucracy. They've shown courage. It's a good example, which shows that it's possible. If you can do it there, can't you do it anywhere? I also know someone who's been working at a nursing home reception for over 25 years. That person said, "Mr. Roemer, look what happened here. We used to be a one-pitter. That's when the home care organizations joined us. There was a need for more home care organisations. We needed a hospital. The nursing homes had to be included. Then it became one big real estate drama." Those people are short of money because it goes to projects that have nothing to do with care. That is why we have worked out all these proposals to ensure that we come up with that concern that I believe you stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u56	Proceed, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u57	Madam President, I had already finished very well. Thanks for the time. We're ready and I think we're starting now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u58	"Thank you for your contribution," I wanted to say, but Mr Klaver would like to ask you one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u59	I have a question about the climate ambitions of the SP. If I understand correctly, the SP says: the cabinet must comply with the judge's ruling in the climate case. That means we have to reduce the extra 15 megatons. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u60	You shouldn't go to court, you should take action. That message is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u61	Exactly. What measures is the SP prepared to take to further reduce CO emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u62	We have huge greening proposals in our counter-budget. Read them all. It involves contributions from large consumers to additional taxes on waste incineration. Keep up the good work. Measures in the fields of agriculture and energy; we have a whole laundry list. You should do well, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u63	There are indeed two things under the heading of the environment: energy taxation and incineration taxes. I also see a reduction in excise duties on fuels. This in turn leads to the emission of more CO. If you really want to do something about global warming, the coal plants have to shut down. The way to do that is a coal tax; a tax on coal. That's what the SP's for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u64	I'd like to examine with you all the suggestions for improvement. We do not have it now, but I agree: there are no coal-fired power stations at present. We do not disagree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u65	Exactly. I'm happy about that. Does that mean the SP is for a coal tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u66	Come up with proposals, and we'll see if they're feasible and affordable. If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u67	I am not asking for an assessment of our proposals, although that is fine with me. I am very curious to see what Mr Roemer thinks about that. I'll ask what the SP thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u68	You know what's so funny, Mr Klaver: we're pretty much in agreement on a lot of these kinds of areas. What we cannot do in three months is to break down what is wrong in ten, fifteen or twenty years. We come up with a lot of greening measures, then it is very easy to pick out one that is just not in it. I want to think about everything, as long as the direction is that our next tax system will be a lot greener. If you have any suggestions, Mr Klaver, I would be happy to hear them. With any luck, we'll embrace them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u69	I'm not saying it to be silly. I'm not just picking out one that's not in it, but if you really want to get the CO-saving ambition to do justice to the judge's ruling, you're not gonna get there without dealing with the coal plants. That is why I appeal to you, Mr Roemer, not to take a measure that is not there. I wouldn't be that faint.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u70	Let us sit at the table together, because our ambitions are the same. It has to be greener, it has to be more sustainable and with the old, pre-war energy sources we have had it by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u71	Mr. Chairman. First a reassurance: I'm not working on a book. I'm an optimist. I always look confidently at the future and what it has to offer us. But I also see that the world in which we now live is unstable and that leads to uncertainty for many people. I understand. I also sometimes wonder what the future holds for us. I also wonder what future my son has ahead of him. The people of our beautiful country expect us politicians to have answers to that. Our safety is palpably under pressure. There are enormous migratory flows, resulting in a refugee crisis. Technological progress goes faster and faster and puts pressure on the way we work, on its head. The Dutch expect an answer from politics. What assurances can we offer in all these changes? Fortunately, a significant uncertainty of recent years has largely been removed. The Netherlands stands better than when the VVD was given the responsibility to help the country get back on top, to help the Netherlands out of the crisis. Thanks to the policy of this cabinet and the hard work and the sacrifices of 17 million Dutch people, we are now putting the crisis behind us. All these reforms and all these cuts were needed to give the Netherlands the assurance that our social services are not only available for us, but also for our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u72	It is very good that the group chairman of the VVD welcomes the cabinet. It would be news if it were different, but what is the biggest challenge for the VVD in the next year and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u73	I see two major challenges for the next year and a half. I will go into this in detail in a moment. One is how we are going to ensure that our economy and our society are ready for the future, that we have jobs for the future, even here in the Netherlands. And two things that may be clear is the enormous refugee crisis that we are seeing and its consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u74	We agree on the latter, although the solutions differ. We also agree on the first point: jobs, employment, the economy. But where the hell did those jobs go? Last year there was a plan here, maybe it was a little too ambitious, for 100,000 jobs, and I don't see anything. Money is being spent and the result in jobs is minimal. Mr Zijlstra, where have these jobs gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u75	Jobs come from an economy that is transforming, an economy in which labour becomes cheaper. That is why we are giving warm support to the 5 billion reductions proposed by the cabinet. It will make work, work, cheaper, and we will make sure that people who do not have a job today will be able to get it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u76	That's an attitude of hanging back, isn't it? That's not an active attitude to leading this country, is it? Then you're gonna take measures to make sure those jobs get there, right? Then you're gonna make choices, aren't you? Today, the Council of State takes a firm stand on the plans of VVD and PvdA. The analysis that everyone tastes underneath is: they don't agree, they don't dare to make those choices, and of the 100,000 jobs they promised, nothing remains. My specific question to the leader of the VVD is the following. D66 shows in its own plans that it can create more jobs. Can we do business today and tomorrow about more ambition in the area of these jobs? That also means adjustments to the proposals of VVD and PvdA yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u77	I will always look constructively at proposals that lead to even more jobs than cabinet policy provides. I'm always open to that. The other point is that this would lead to some kind of disagreement within the coalition. It has been discussed for more than three years that the PvdA and the VVD would disagree. I have news for you, and actually that is not news at all: that is true. We are very different about a lot of things. That is why the PvdA is a social democratic party and the VVD is a liberal party. We have a fundamentally different view of society. The beauty of these two parties, however, is that in these difficult times we are always able to solve any problem, I would almost say: often to the frustration of the opposition, to provide a solution. I think that is a good thing. However, I am not going to argue that we agree on everything. That is not what we are, that is correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u78	These are paper solutions, for bed-bath bread, for the refugee problem, for energy, for the climate, and also for employment. If, as happened last year, you have your Secretary of State for VVD House write that a tax system is being introduced with only relief without reform, then you should also have it done. That's why those numbers suck. That is why it is dangerous for two parties who disagree fundamentally to flee into a paper reality each time. My question is again: are you prepared to continue greening? Are you willing to shift charges to municipalities so that we can further reduce the payroll tax? Are you prepared to do so, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u79	We've been looking this spring to see if we can do that. We've sat at the table with all kinds of parties. Mr Roemer was not present, but I understand that he was willing to do so. Eventually, however, we didn't get out; parties didn't agree. There was no support for such measures. Fortunately, at the time, the cabinet was wise enough to take the measures contained in the budget. In doing so, we ensured that Dutch people, who first had to surrender purchasing power for years, are now moving forward. Labour has been made cheaper so that people who do not have a job can get back to work. That's very wise of the cabinet. Further measures were found to have insufficient political support. I don't think it's wise to start pulling a dead horse. I prefer to devote the VVD's energy to issues where we can really offer solutions. The difference between the VVD and, for example, D66 is that we come up with solutions that we put on paper and then implement. On many subjects I still have to wait for the solution of D66. You do have comments, but you never have your own vision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr Zijlstra announced on behalf of the VVD the top priorities of the VVD: employment and refugee issues. Where's his safety list?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u81	I have just mentioned safety in the list of uncertainties that lie ahead of us. That is a very important subject. That is why I think it is very sensible that the cabinet should take two measures in this area. As far as security is concerned, so, Defense, 345 million goes to the Defense Department and 60 million to military missions. There's over 100 million going to the security services and to extra Royal Marechaussee. These are important measures. The cabinet sees that well and deals with it wisely. We have to do those things. I think that the whole of the Netherlands feels that security is a serious issue, that the threats from the world come to us. I paid a lot of attention to it last year during the APB. Look at the eastern border. In recent months, it has been paying less attention, but Russia is still working in Ukraine. Look at ISIS. Luckily, we're gonna get into that now. As far as the VVD is concerned, let's add one more step. As far as we are concerned, we also need to see if there is anything we can do in Syria. We are going to have a whole debate in the Chamber about how to ensure that the security services not only have sufficient financial resources, but also obtain their information in a good way. The VVD will continue to assume its responsibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u82	Has Mr Zijlstra noticed, when he read the V and J budgets, that the Minister of V and J had a terrible hazing during his first budget negotiations? There are huge gaps in his budget. Take the approach to the criminal justice chain, the police, the D.A., courts. It's a real horror. Can you take responsibility, on behalf of the VVD Group, for such a budget and also for the appreciation of our criminal justice chain, which is so incredibly important to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u83	I think the minister's hazing took place a long time ago at his fraternity. I don't think it happened after that. I will be honest about it, the Justice budget is not the most amazing budget of justice that I have seen in history. I note, however, that the cabinet has resolved the problems that arise for the coming year. I also note that, in future, additional matters will probably be needed in the department. That also depends on the parties present in this Chamber. Some of the problems have not yet arisen. Take the registry rights, legal aid or the personal contribution of prisoners. Those are things that are wise to do as far as the VVD is concerned. After discussions with other parties, there are now sensible proposals. If parties in the First Chamber do not give a majority, there will be a problem in the Justice budget. But if you don't mind, I'm assuming this minister is able to get it through the First Chamber. The parties who do so actually place the ball with the National Police. After all, there is no other post where you can find anything. As far as the VVD is concerned, we're not going to deal with the National Police that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u84	A very comprehensive answer from which I make it clear that you accept, in principle, the budget, which you do not really think deserves the beauty prize. How is that possible? Take the cops. For months now, we have been working together in a situation where the national police are not doing exactly as we would like. We're gonna have to do something about that, aren't we? There's just money in there. Look at the rest of the criminal justice chain. More than 150 million will eventually be cut in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Only a little less than 7 million is being squeezed. There will be cuts in the courts, with significant consequences in all kinds of places in the country. Are you prepared to do something about this in these General Reviews, or are you going to continue to accept this tune-up budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u85	Wood-rope budget? That's another two bridges down. Obviously, V and J have problems at the door. This has to do with the question of whether proposals in the budget will achieve a majority in the Upper House. Surely it would be crazy if a cabinet and parties who are convinced that they are good measures say, because they are not sure whether there is a majority in the First Chamber, that non-political body, according to some, in favour of: you know what, I will strike them out of the budget? On the contrary, I think it is very good that the cabinet says: we are in favour and we are going ahead and, if there is a problem, we are going to look further at that moment. I think that's the right attitude. You shouldn't run away from your responsibility. In my view, Mr Slob is actually proposing to the cabinet: it is going to be so difficult, don't get started. I'd think that was a little cowardly of a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u86	I am not speaking to the cabinet, I am speaking to you through the chairman, the group chairman of the largest government party that sees your electoral programme, which always has very big words about security. Rightly so, I guess. You always wanted a lot of money for that, but not all of that was realized during this period. We are very concerned, in particular about the way the criminal justice chain is developing now. What holes do they have in there? We are concerned about the amount of noise on the line between the drivers and the people who have to do the work on the work floor: the policemen, the people of the Public Prosecutor's Office, a terrible report yesterday! Oh, and the people of the court. Something must be done about that, and I would like to address you to that. It's not about the First Chamber, it's not about the Cabinet. Let's do something for safety and let the chain of laws really be worth something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u87	That chain of laws is worth something to all of us. Improvements can also take place there. Where things aren't going well, we got a clear report yesterday. We'll never run away from responsibilities. I don't think the cabinet will either. But again, we shouldn't confuse things. Yes, I see problems that can arise, but I support the cabinet in wanting to take those measures, even if only because some of those measures are in my own electoral programme. Then it is also good if the cabinet tries to implement these measures. If that leads to problems in the criminal justice chain, I expect the cabinet to take up that responsibility. If that should occur, it is not yet the case, then the cabinet will have our support and I understand your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u88	When we were in the Knight's Room yesterday, we received a destructive report. We now see 5,000 policemen on the street who cannot do their job, who indicate that there is no more money for training or for the proper establishment of the National Police. The D.A. says we can't do the job like this anymore. The Dutch Forensic Institute says: we can't do the investigations anymore. Six months ago, your then spokesperson, Mr Van der Steur, said that it was unacceptable, that it could not be done and that these cuts really had to come out of the budget. I'm saying it now in my own words, but that's what it came down to. What happened to the VVD for her to abandon justice and police like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u89	We don't abandon the law and the police. Let it be clear: I think that the cabinet has just made a good wage offer to the police, just like other government officials. The bid is 5.05%. We are also going to take advantage of the reduction in the burden for workers who are in the cabinet's plans. So police officers are making a lot of progress with this offer. Obviously, they haven't figured it out yet. The ministers have also received some of this today when they leave their ministry. I hope they find each other. However, it must also be clear that you are making a maximum bid at some point. Then it's gonna be hard to do more. I would not know where Minister Van der Steur would have to scrape that money off his budget. I also say to the police unions: we appreciate the work done by the police, much appreciation for what has happened in recent years, which has not always been easy for the police, but also look at what is going on, because that is a really good offer; try to take it real at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u90	I hope all cops listen so they hear that they don't have to have it from the VVD anymore and that the VVD likes a cigar from their own box. It's about the cops. It's about a lot more than that. The point is that there are substantial cuts in training and that they are no longer able to do their job because there are substantial cuts. The point is that the D.A.'s office says it can't catch the criminals, let alone pick them. We don't get a report like that for nothing. Your own former spokesperson said it was unacceptable, and the VVD doesn't give at home. I can give you a note in advance that a budget of this kind will not go through the First Chamber. Join the opposition, join all parties that free up money for a better police force and a better judiciary. 'Cause then you're the man. If you're just gonna hide behind the gossip that's on the table right now, it's not gonna help the police or the justice system. It used to be something from the VVD, but now it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u91	It's still from the VVD. I can say from my own experience, my father is a police officer, that this is still the case. That has nothing to do with this kind of business. We stand for security and we stand for the policemen, but we always talk to them about what can, what cannot, what is real and what is not real. In his budget, Minister Van der Steur compliments 230 million for this because he has seen that there are problems with the reorganisation of the National Police. Then it's a good thing money is being sought to do something about it. Fine. But I will come back to the key point: I also believe that the cabinet, which has agreed measures in a government agreement, should try to bring those measures to the finish line. If that does not work, then at that point we will have to discuss how we deal with it. As far as the VVD is concerned, the alternative cannot be to cut short on the National Police. That is, after all, the only budget item left. Again, this does not occur until parties in the First Chamber have cast a particular vote. My appeal is: look at those measures............................................................................................................................................................................................. I believe that there are sensible proposals that deserve the support of the parties, including in the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr Zijlstra says that there are still a number of uncertainties in the budget of justice and that there may be a problem, but also that he does not want to get ahead of it. However, is it not clear from all the reactions to the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice that there is already a problem and that this budget is too tight? We are getting signals about both the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary: pay attention, because this is so tight. If we see that, on the other hand, it is said that, again, we can spend extra money on certain important social priorities, why, then, for toddler care and not for safety in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u93	For safety in the Netherlands, we spend about 400 million. In this case, we have made a choice for defence where the need is great and the international situation is urgent. We have also looked at Security and Justice. I have already said that if certain developments continue, something additional will probably be needed next year in that budget. I'm giving that message to the Cabinet now. If, in the meantime, something happens that puts things between the wheels, Mr Van der Staaij can knock on our door because we will always assume that responsibility. But only if it appears and does not anticipate it because certain measures may not reach a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u94	With that, Mr Zijlstra is pushing it back a little bit. He says it's gonna come when the troubles come. Shouldn't he be picking up the glove now if it's said from left to right in the Chamber that there's still money to be paid for security? Shouldn't we be looking together to see if there's anything to be added?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u95	I am always willing to see if extra money can be put to safety if it is needed, but then we must determine where it is needed. I'd like to hear that from the cabinet. The cabinet has come up with this budget. In that I see a sign that it is of the opinion that that is enough. I have already said that Mr Van der Staaij can always come to us when problems arise. We believe that you should never negotiate with security, because security is the basis of our prosperity and of our society. Without security, no prosperity. So here Mr Van der Staaij can always count on us.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u96	We will discuss security further when the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice is discussed. Mr Zijlstra also mentioned defence, and with honor. It is good that extra money goes to the DOD, but does he also recognise that we are not even there yet? I refer to yesterday's letter on employability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u97	I'll acknowledge that immediately. I think I have already said that there will also be a need for more in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u98	I would warn Mr Zijlstra not to speak with too much dedain about what can happen in the Upper Chamber. He says that Members should not look politically. According to Mr Zijlstra, what is a solution is precisely the problem in both chambers. I would like to mention the further increase in the registry fees, which have already been substantially increased, the further reduction in legal aid, which has already been substantially reduced, and the payment for the stay in prison, which is virtually impossible. So where Mr Zijlstra throws the ball back to the Chamber, I recommend him as the leader of the VVD here, at least as chairman of the group, to sit much harder on the line that this has to be resolved now. He cannot claim here that security is priority number one and then charge the prosecution, the judiciary and the police with such impossible discounts. Either the problem concerns you and then we'll have it arranged at the end of these two days, or you'll come up with the you-bak: then you don't all have to agree nice ideas from us. Now an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u99	It's not a you-bake at all. Isn't it normal for a cabinet to say that it wants to take certain measures, to try to bring them to the finish line? It would be crazy if we were to throw the towel in the ring and say: we expect that this will not make it in the First Chamber and that is why we are withdrawing it. That is in reverse, because then we would sit in the chair of the First Chamber. I say now: Cabinet go for it, try to get it through the First Chamber, and if there is no majority there, the future will tell, because that is up to them. I expect you to come back with a proposal to resolve this. Then the CDA can always knock on our door. The VVD will want to solve it, because it must not be at the expense of the safety chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u100	The difference of opinion lies in the fact that Mr Zijlstra sees making a better budget as throwing the towel in the ring. No, a better budget of justice means that impossible or undesirable cuts that come later through the First Chamber or the Second Chamber do not take place and that we realize that security is simply a real problem in this country and not something we may have to look at in the future. Right now, the courts are closing. At the moment, prosecutors are going out. Right now, the police are under pressure. That clarity needs to be made now, these days, and not as it turns out later in the First Chamber that weird cuts may not happen. That is the call I make to Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u101	Safety, I say to Mr Buma, is priority number one. It's the core task of the government. However, we also see that this core task has been very well carried out in recent years. After all, crime rates are falling. So it is not necessarily bad that a prosecutor disappears here and there, or that cuts are made here and there. Less crime doesn't mean you have to keep the same device up everywhere. That is the result. Let us not now think in black and white images. Security is one. I believe that there is broad agreement in this Chamber. If problems arise on that file, the CDA can contact the VVD, but we are not going to anticipate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u102	Finally. Could it be that crime has fallen because more investment has been made in the security chain in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u103	It is very good that there has been investment in the safety chain. That is perhaps why crime has fallen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u104	I really don't understand why the VVD leaves its own stick horse, security, back to the opposition. When severe cuts were made on the intelligence services, the opposition had to come up with alternatives. When it went wrong last year in the defence sector, the opposition parties made sure that the relevant budget was updated. Now it seems that Mr Zijlstra puts his head in the sand, moves it forward again and says "wait for what is happening in the First Chamber" while you see here aligned what is going to happen there. And then he's proud of the resolution rate. Why? Five years of VVD executives, and it's never been such a mess. The level of clarification is decreasing every year. 22% of the crimes in this country are cleared up. That's less than when the VVD started it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u105	For bicycle thefts and that's right. In the case of serious crime, to which the cabinet has given priority, it is precisely the opposite, and that is very good. That's making choices, too. That is also a consequence of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u106	I list a number of things: a series of mistakes in the homicide case; that was the Oosting Committee. I would also like to mention the report on Cees H., 230 million additional reorganisation costs and 600 million loaned by the Justice Department to Dijsselbloem. An unknown amount should be added for the aspirants. There are 16 million setbacks in the real estate. There are setbacks in ICT; how much is not yet known. I would also like to mention the increase in the fees of the Registry, without any chance, and the cuts in legal aid: soft as butter. While we were in the Knight's Room yesterday, there was another destructive report from the D.A.'s office. Five years of VVD at Justice is a five-year mess. And now Mr Zijlstra says: you know what, just wait for those senators, because they will look at it quite differently; those senators are people who do not stand so much with justice and justice, they are very different types. If we're so critical here, get your chest wet over there. So, do we get butter with the fish? Are we going to do something about the Justice budget under opposition pressure or are we going to keep our heads in the sand?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u107	I'm not sticking my head in the sand. I am just realistic about the different roles, which mean that the cabinet is submitting a budget and that we are assessing that budget. If there are problems, you can always contact the VVD. Security is the most important issue for us, because without security there is no prosperity. I'm not sitting in the chair of the First Chamber. If you want to do that, fine; you've done that before. I'm not gonna do that. I'm gonna leave that trade-off to the First Chamber. We're gonna see what comes out of it. I believe that the cabinet should shoulder its responsibilities and try to get its proposals, the things it intends to do, through them. If that doesn't work out, we're going to look further at that moment. You may come and knock on our door.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u108	This shows that the VVD, and therefore also the PvdA, is governing a bit per week or per month. There are letters in which the problems are pushed forward. Budgets are being presented that are butter-soft. And there's always the hope that the opposition will jump back in. Is that government? You're gonna have to do something for that. You'll have to order the cabinet. These are the General Political Reviews, and in them we have to make choices. Again, it's a helping hand. The opposition has arranged it with the security services. The opposition has arranged it with the Defense Department. Now we say, "Justice is a mess." So my question is: are we going to settle it today, or are we going to have to get the whole budget back? And don't blackmail us. Do not say that the opposition plays a major role in the problems of the National Police. No, if you don't take this hand now, that's your problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u109	You don't have to point, it doesn't get any better. But let the measures be clear: extra money for the Defense Department, extra money for the intelligence services. I didn't see any opposition parties at the table when I discussed it. So that's what the cabinet decided to do. I think it is very good that there is broad support for the opposition on these points as well. Similarly, we will support all matters that help to improve security in this country. But it has to be in the different roles. But let's not go you-baked to each other. We all have a responsibility for this. The VVD and the cabinet take that responsibility. We will see what other parties, on other stages, do with their responsibility. We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u110	The times in which the VVD stood for the safety and workers of the Netherlands are clearly over. Do you know what the heroes of the Netherlands are, Mr. Zijlstra? Those are the people who do the real thing. These are the nurses, who earn after a few years, with overtime and weekend services, €1,500, €1,600 or €1,700 net per month. Those are the agents of the Netherlands, who, if they have worked for a number of years, are lucky if they earn €2,000 net per month with all their overtime services. Look at what a person with a minimum wage gets in fees. If you take all that off, they'll earn a few hundred euros more than anyone with the minimum wage. So that's not an appreciation. That is not an appreciation for those police officers and nurses, who are the heroes of the Netherlands. I therefore ask the VVD: what kind of choices do you make? We heard in the summer recess that you transferred another 5 billion to Greece. You are paying billions for the reception of refugees: according to a very cautious estimate next year 1 billion. Wouldn't it be much better if you, instead of spending that money on the shelter of those refugees and the Greeks, gave money to the nurses in the Netherlands, the people who get up every morning to do the work you don't want to do or can't do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u111	Politics is indeed making choices. That is why I am pleased that the cabinet has made the choice to make a good wage offer. In it, policemen and other state officials get appreciation for the years that have been and are to come. They are doing very important work; we immediately agree on that. However, we also need to make choices about other issues, for example how to deal with the asylum influx and the provision of reception in the region. We also have a responsibility there, and it also costs money. We cannot spend the same euro twice. There's a good paycheck. I hope they get out. I hope the unions and the cabinet will be back at the table. We also have other problems to solve. The VVD looks at the total and not at one specific thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u112	It is exactly as Mr Zijlstra says: you can only spend that euro once. All those police officers in the Netherlands who are demonstrating today, but also the nurses who work in the care of the elderly, who work that you would not like to do, believe me, are the heroes of the Netherlands. It is incomprehensible that we do not choose them. We should choose those people, the cops who risk their lives every day. I notice it myself every day, I am grateful for it every second and that should be every Dutchman. This also applies to the work of the nurses. Just because you can only spend every euro once, it is a better choice to give them that money than to give this money to the Greeks or the asylum seekers or to development aid in Africa. I would say: take care of the heroes of the Netherlands first, Mr Zijlstra. That must be your choice. That's how the VVD used to be. Now she's turned into some kind of luxury SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u113	I didn't see that one coming. We make those choices; that is why there is a strong wage bid. I think that is right too, and that is an expression of appreciation for all these people. In addition, we also make many other choices, because the world and politics are slightly more complex than one dimensional equations. There is cause for optimism: our prosperity is growing faster than we expected. One increasingly optimistic forecast follows the other. Trust has increased to the highest point in years. Our entrepreneurs wear out their goods and services more and more successfully abroad. They are increasingly willing to invest in new technologies, new machines and new employees. We will all now benefit more quickly from this growing prosperity, starting with 5 billion in relief. This reduction in the burden will improve workers and reduce the cost of labour. That is necessary, because there are still too many people who are out of a job at home. Partly because of this reduction, they will have a chance to get to work, because only then will the crisis be over for them too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u114	I hear the spokesperson of the VVD saying that we are all making progress. I'm afraid that's not true. Mr Zijlstra has also seen in the figures that there is a group of people in society who are already lagging behind and who are still lagging behind because the gap between what they get and what workers get has become really disproportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u115	I said that everyone will benefit from the growing prosperity. That's different. Mr Krol referred to the group of older people. They get a small plus and we did our best to do so, because if the cabinet had not done purchasing power repair, they would have had a big minus. So I think it is good that the cabinet has looked at how it can fix that. It did and the outcome is fine. The focus of the burden relief goes to those people who are at work or can go to work, because we give those people that job for the future. We're not abandoning the elderly. That is why there is no minus and we have repaired the negative purchasing power effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u116	I hear you saying you're not abandoning the elderly. I dare you to go with me on the market and on the street, and to explain to the elderly that 0.2%, compared to what workers get, is fair sharing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u117	I explain that to them all the time and I do it quite well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u118	I would like to go back with Mr Zijlstra to last year's General Reviews. At that time, there was talk of a reform of the system. My predecessor, Mr Van Ojik, asked Mr Zijlstra if he agreed that we should not spend the money that lies ahead until we have a final picture in mind, if we know what we want with the tax system. Otherwise, it's basically potting, wasting. Mr Zijlstra then replied: yes, that's right; we should not start until we have that final picture in sight. What exactly has changed since last year? Why is it no longer important to pursue the objective of a broader system review? Why is the VVD going to spend this money now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u119	What has changed has shown that there is no political majority in favour of it. Then you have to forward it. That's government. Governing is not standing still because something is not working, but taking a new measure, passing on and making decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u120	It didn't work. One party got up right away. I think the cabinet was pretty happy about that. I did not have the impression that the cabinet wanted to continue with this. Does Mr Zijlstra say that, as far as he is concerned, further tax reforms and further steps are still to be discussed this autumn? Is he saying that this isn't the package that it should be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u121	Mr Samsom has yet to come, so he has to say so himself, but I think that the coalition parties have always been prepared to talk about a system revision of taxes. This is not going to work for 2016, let that be clear. Let me speak for myself: we always have the willingness to talk about such views, but I have noticed that there were far-reaching differences and that it is very difficult to bring them to a conclusion. However, I never run away from a challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u122	I still find it striking that the VVD Group says: we will not get out with such a system review, so it will just be a flat load relief and then we will see how we can distribute it as well as possible. This has little effect on employment. I do hope that this autumn we will be able to discuss the greening of taxes, because that is ultimately the system change that we need. In the counter-budgets of my fellow Members this morning, I saw wonderful greening measures. I hope that the VVD Group will at least be prepared to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u123	I'm always willing to talk about things like that. I invite Mr Klaver to take with him the support of at least 17 seats in the First Chamber, all of which find the same thing with the same coverage. Then we can talk, but I'm also honest: I don't feel like doing another session where everyone comes in with very different ideas and we're actually doing a paper exercise. I would like to talk, but also about real alternatives, things that are widely supported in the opposition. Then in the coalition, at least with this party, there is always the willingness to talk to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u124	So Mr Zijlstra is actually saying, if I understand correctly, that if there are 17 seats that come with a nicely shared package that they agree on, then is the coalition prepared to talk?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u125	Looks like we'll have some ground to talk about. Whether we agree, that's a second, but at least there's reason to talk. However, I have to say that it is often possible to agree on certain measures in the end, but that there are differences of opinion when they are implemented, when it comes to coverage and what this means for the tax system. We've had that exercise. It didn't work out. But with us there is always the willingness to take on a challenge and to see if it can be done in another way. I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u126	Please continue with your speech. I see Mr Roemer jumping out of his chair. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u127	With this, the circle is actually round. We are back to where this whole round of interruption began, namely the fact that the differences are so enormous, that the coalition parties in the cabinet are not getting anywhere on major fundamental issues in society. They do try to find a compromise so that they can come out together and defend that outcome together, but in the case of major tax reforms, major climate issues, a topic such as inequality in society and issues of concern, the cabinet does not go any further. Does Mr Zijlstra not agree with me that it is not much more than padding and soaking and trying to compromise with two parties, rather than putting forward real fundamental solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u128	I think it's the other way around. I see great divisions in politics. There is fragmentation and there are many parties with different opinions. To be honest, I find it extremely handsome of this cabinet, that it has been able to bring the most far-reaching reforms to the finish line in this political situation for three years now. That deserves a great compliment and, as far as I am concerned, we will continue to do so. The cabinet recently presented a far-reaching plan in the area of migration........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It was adopted in Brussels. I'm just saying, what else do you expect from the cabinet? That it solves big problems, and so it does, very well indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u129	The opposite is true. There is nothing on the table for all major fundamental issues. If there is anything, the VVD and the PvdA will explain it in a different way. There will be no real solutions to these major issues either. Mr Zijlstra's compliment to the cabinet is above all a compliment that the cabinet is able to sit. However, people do not need a cabinet that makes every effort to remain seated. People want the Cabinet to take measures for better care, social security, job guarantees, less unemployment, better climate policy and control of refugee flows, a cabinet that will take measures that will help people tomorrow and not 40 years from now. That leaves the cabinet far behind. So you have to wonder if you still want to go through with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u130	To be honest, I'm a little surprised. I now have three years of experience in the General Political Reviews. There is one consistent thing in that for me, namely that Mr Roemer always thinks that all the measures taken by the cabinet are terrible, that we should not take them and that there is again far too much savings and reform. That was the message for the last three years. And now Mr Roemer is actually saying that we should do that above all, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u131	Your observation that these ridiculous measures have been taken is justified. Congratulations on agreeing with you now. However, this is what we are dealing with here. You're signaling a social problem. Actually, that's what we all do. We are taking out a random one and apparently the coalition parties, the cabinet and the chamber are unable to make fundamental choices to solve that problem. If there is something on the table, the VVD explains it in this way and the PvdA explains it in this way. So the cabinet is mainly working on taking care of its own money, its own count, to sit down instead of, for example, the issue of employment.... there is hardly any job at........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The same applies to care. The accessibility of care is now worse than ever. When it comes to bed, bath and bread, it's still not settled. As for the reception and improvement of reception tomorrow, we must wait until October. It's been postponed every time and real measures stay out of it. Of course, things are going to be on the table, but these are not the solutions that society is asking for. And then you have to start thinking about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u132	Really, the opposite is true. If there is one thing that can be said about this coalition and this cabinet, it is that we are able to do exactly that, the VVD is also okay with inventing a solution to any problem that comes along. To your frustration, I would almost say to Mr Roemer. This cabinet has provided and will continue to provide a solution to every problem. We have proven that again in recent times. So it's not a matter of sitting around; it's a matter of taking responsibility when things arise and thinking about it and coming up with solutions, where two parties who really look at things very fundamentally differently are always able to step over the differences and put forward a solution. I think that's worth a big compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u133	I would also like to compliment the VVD on the reduction of charges. It is precisely the highest incomes that benefit most from this reduction. I would like to know how the VVD thinks that social minima are not improving and that the single housewife with a child is improving €1 per month. I wonder whether you think that is fair and how you got Mr Samsom to accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u134	I thank Mr Kuzu for the compliment, but what he says is wrong. This is because the middle incomes are the ones that are getting the most out of it. The people who work, but also the people who are still at the bottom and have a low-paid job, are making the most progress. That's because we want work to pay off. We want people who have benefits and go to work to really improve on them. That's why we chose those groups. I think that this is extremely well justified, because we have made every effort to change the situation, which means that people who are still unemployed will soon have another job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u135	I am not talking about percentages, purchasing power cards or pointy clouds, but about hard euros. I note, when we look at the hard-earned euros, at absolute numbers, that high incomes are making a huge leap forward. The VVD does not have the social minimums. I understand that, but I sincerely wonder how Mr Zijlstra got Mr Samson to do so. I haven't gotten an answer to that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u136	In my opinion, the PvdA is the Labour Party for a reason; we too choose labour. At that point, the VVD and the PvdA always find each other. Mr Samson has to state it himself in his term, but this is my explanation and that seems to me to be a very logical one. The Netherlands asked politics to take control. We did. For the first time since Gerrit Zalm even a balanced budget is in sight. We've put the crisis behind us. Trust's back. We can look forward. However, looking ahead, we see positive developments in our country taking place against a background of instability, international uncertainty and threats to our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u137	That is a good thing, because that is exactly what I wanted to talk to Mr Zijlstra about. I have a passport here from Mr. Mark Malek Ramadan Rutte. I'll hold up a copy so you can see what he looks like. So either Mr. Rutte turns out to be a Syrian or he's been joking about things before or it's a forgery. I take it that Mr Rutte didn't cheat on this and that it's a fake passport. A journalist is fair to mention his name: Harald Doornbos, for the magazine Nieuwe Revu.. has applied for a Syrian passport with the photo of our Prime Minister. Within 40 hours he had a real passport and a real identity card, as if Mr. Rutte, with a fake name, were a Syrian. This happens thousands of times a day all over the region, we read in all messages. Even in the name of the Dutch Prime Minister, one is issued. This means that terrorists, whether they are among the asylum seekers or not, can simply have access to our territory with a Syrian passport. The borders are wide open because the VVD does not want to close our borders. The VVD does not dare to close the borders because it has an agreement with Mr Samsom that we must let as many asylum seekers as possible into the Netherlands. Isn't the threat of terror at least a reason to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence today to close our borders with the military for this kind of terrorists?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u138	The cabinet has already decided on Monday to step up border controls. That's what the cabinet's about; that was a good decision. Mr Wilders is making a link with terrorism. In order to prevent and combat terrorism, we are spending more money on security services. That is why the VVD and the cabinet have said about the flow of migrants: we need to do something about the core of the problem; we need to ensure that people stay in the region and that the right to asylum falls if there is such a safe region. That's the only way you can solve the problem. That can't be done by building a fence, because then the people go around the fence. You have to take away the cause. That is the responsibility that the cabinet has taken, and I think that is very good, precisely in order to avoid this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u139	The cabinet doesn't do anything. Europe's borders are wide open. Last week 3,100 people entered the Netherlands. When we were debating this last week, I was talking about 1,800 people. The number has almost doubled in five days. What did the Cabinet do on Monday? It has tightened up mobile border controls. This means that a little more is being examined here and there on a sample basis for people entering our country. When one encounters them, the COA collects them by bus to take them to the asylum-seekers centre. It's a glorified taxi service instead of a checkup. So we shouldn't do that. The terrorists are entering our country, in the asylum-seekers' centres and beyond. Europe's external borders are as leaky as a basket. 3,000 asylum seekers come in a week. There may be dozens of terrorists in there who could make an attack tomorrow. Stop making excuses like "we have a solid package." You don't have the beginning of a package. If you at least started to ensure the safety of the Dutch, to close the borders, you were still something of a guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u140	The closing of borders, as Mr Wilders wants, is a dream vision. Those people will go in on a country road. We have to make sure they don't come here in another way. We need to ensure safe reception in the region so that the people there are in a protection procedure. They are no longer entitled to asylum in Europe and therefore no longer have access to it. Then that fake passport won't make any sense anymore. That is the fundamental solution that you must put forward. Another solution doesn't work, it's a dummy solution. As far as the VVD is concerned, this is a major problem and something must be done about it. That is why the cabinet has taken good measures in this respect. I'm glad. We're gonna have to keep an eye on our boundaries. If, for example, Germany closes the border, we will have to respond to that. That is why it was right for the cabinet to do so. But don't paint a story like they won't come in when you put a fence around it! If terrorists want it, they'll come in here. That's why we need to get rid of the source. That is why we must ensure that our security services are effective. And that's where responsibility has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u141	I would like to say to Mr Zijlstra: please do not make any more ridiculous than you have already done. Mr Zijlstra, you have just said that reception is in the region. Like the terrorists are looking for shelter in the region! How much more ridiculous do you want to make it! A terrorist doesn't go for shelter in the region, a terrorist comes here to commit acts of terror. Eurojust said it. A libanon minister said yesterday on Dutch television that in his opinion 2% of refugees are terrorists trained by ISIS. If the man's right, then out of the 3,100 refugees who entered last week, there are 60 terrorists. Last week, 60 terrorists entered the Netherlands. And then you won't get away with shelter in the region. Then you'll have to check the borders again, with border posts, the military and the military. Then you need to check for passports and see if anyone has a visa. If not, that person must be stopped. When people live in an unsafe street at home, they also make sure their own house is locked. Isn't that what every Dutchman does? If there's a crook gang operating in your neighborhood, you're not gonna open the door, are you? And that's what's happening here. So you have to close the borders. Everything else is bullshit. This puts the Netherlands at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u142	The danger pointed out by Mr Wilders is that terrorists come on the same boats as refugees come here. I agree with that danger. That's right. We've been warned about that, too. That's why you have to make sure you stop that flow of refugees and those boats. That is why the solution I indicated, which Mr Wilders still embraced in the spring, is also a good one. The fact that he may have become concerned about the fact that he has managed to get these measures through in Europe, with which he no longer has a story, I understand. But let's not fool each other. We want to deal with the problem. There's a solution to that. Let us now implement that policy!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u143	I don't get it anymore. Now Mr Zijlstra says to Mr Wilders: closing borders is an illusion. And that was the whole VVD position, wasn't it? There was a commitment to closing the borders. Now Wilders is breathing for five minutes in the neck with a double passport, and now suddenly the border opens again. I don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u144	The borders don't close with a fence, as if they didn't come in after you nailed the Netherlands completely or introduced border controls. The boundaries are closing in a different way. They close in the effective way, namely by ensuring that people in the region have safe shelter. If there is such a safe shelter, they are no longer entitled to asylum in the Netherlands, for example. Then there's no point in coming this way, then there's no point in getting in a boat. Then there is no point in getting in the boat for a terrorist, because then he suddenly stands out. Then you actually made sure the boundaries are closed. But then they are not close in Mr Wilders' physical way, because I do not believe in that. You're not gonna pull that off. That is what the Greek and Italian borders prove every day. They just sail in there while the border is officially closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u145	Not only Mr Wilders is in an illusion with his narrow boundaries, but also Mr Zijlstra is now in an illusion by saying that the right of asylum expires. I find that dangerous, even towards the coalition party PvdA. No, Mr Zijlstra, if the surrounding countries meet a number of conditions, there is an opportunity within the right of asylum to regulate asylum procedures in this way. Or does Mr Zijlstra really insist here that the right of asylum is about to lapse?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u146	No, I said "the right to asylum," that's different from the right to asylum. If someone comes from a safe region, if there is a safe haven and if that person applies here for asylum, which is in the cabinet plan, that is also under number 15 in the conclusions of the European Council, then at that time that request is inadmissible, so you have no right to asylum here. That is something other than abolishing the right of asylum. Asylum law will always be there, and rightly so, only we are going to offer protection in the region. This is going to make sure that people don't have to get on those boats, that they don't have to go this way, that thousands of people don't drown in the Mediterranean. In doing so, we will also ensure that the uncontrolled flow that is now under control is controlled, because we will then, if necessary, do so through an invitation policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u147	Only four out of five people are already in the region. The problem is that this has been going on for two or three years now and that the circumstances are no longer there. But it's an illusion, isn't it? Or do you have to participate in a beauty contest of photo models; in my opinion, only they call that, as the greatest wish, to say: there is world peace, and then there will be no asylum? If the VVD says so, where is the effort in Europe to ensure that we do not immediately receive €6,000 as a country for reception but that there are billions more going from Europe to that region? It's two-and-a-half. So the VVD is really calling for extra European money for that region, yes or no? Otherwise, it's an illusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u148	This plan means that we will need to focus more on development cooperation money. At national and European level, it means that, for example, we are going to spend money on the reception of large groups here in the Netherlands, to some extent, to take care of the region by paying to those countries. We now have the UNHCR managing the camps in Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey, which indicates that there is no more money for food at the end of the year. If we don't take care of things like that, it's all water under the bridge, as the English say. Well, there's gotta be a different way. That's why it's good to use this movement. That's why I think it's going to work. I say back to Mr Pechtold that we can think here every time in impossible conditions, in bears on the road. There are. There is no easy route, but I haven't seen any other solutions from either D66 or other parties. This problem is so big. Open borders do not work, we agree, we have to think of something. Here's a solution. Now let's all see if we can take that direction of resolution, if we can get those bears out of the way and if we can do this. Because that will prevent thousands and thousands of people from drowning unnecessarily. This will prevent an uncontrolled flow of asylum. That's two things the VVD likes to do about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u149	The point that is now being raised is the point that I mentioned last week the great lie of the VVD. We still haven't gotten to the big truth. For Mr Zijlstra still says, on the one hand, that Europe's borders are closing. That's literally what the VVD note says. But he says in this same input: no, the borders are not closing, people are just coming in, we are going to deal with all asylum matters under normal procedure, only we assume that a lot of safe countries have joined and then we are going to send everyone there. I do not want to fall into clichés too much, because we talk about that list often enough, but it is one of two. Either you say the borders are closing, or you say no, applications are being processed here, but according to the procedures we make safe countries and bring people back there. Which one is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u150	Boundaries closed with fences... that image that is created... doesn't work, I just said it. We never wrote that down either. We did not say that. We have always said that if we implement the VVD's plan, it means that we are creating safe ports in the region, so that there is safe shelter there and so that people who come here do not get the right to asylum and so go back, there is no need for those people, even more so, that it is very unwise to hire a smuggler for thousands and thousands of euros and to take enormous risks, for example, to drowning in the Mediterranean sea when you return here. Then you're really not gonna do that anymore. That is the solution to the problem. That actually means that the boundaries in that sense are closed. It is metaphorical, but its effect is much more effective than an actual fence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u151	Mr Zijlstra continues to do so. He says again that this is how you actually ensured that the borders are in principle closed. Either borders are closed or borders are open, but people just come in. Applications shall be dealt with. In that country there is the possibility of appeal, appeal and appeal against any expulsion. It all happens, unless the VVD is already out with the PvdA that all these professions can no longer go through. However, I do not believe that. The boundaries aren't closing. In fact, nothing changes at all. Officially, the European borders are already closed in Mr Zijlstra's reasoning. In order to keep those European borders closed, so that no one comes in from Turkey or another country, we should have border controls, but it is a hole cheese there. I haven't heard from the VVD about that. The VVD has plans for the future, but the cheese holes on the south border are a huge problem. Now let the VVD cooperate to solve that problem. We'll be a long way away by then. We are not even talking about the final'solution' of reception in the region. Stop with that story of boundaries closed, because it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u152	I do not seem to be able to convey my story, but Mr Buma is trying to outline a contradiction that is not there. The moment you take care of it this way, if there are safe ports in the region, it's possible. Of course one can still come here, but then one is declared inadmissible and one has no right to asylum. They're going back linea recta. By the way, this is already possible in our legislation. If such a situation arises now and if people appeal, they must wait for that appeal in the region. So it's just a healthy farmer's understanding. You have a choice. Or you could go straight to that safe haven in the region because you're looking for protection. You fled a country at war. That's right. Then we offer protection. You'll go to that safe haven. You can also pay a human smuggler first. A lot of people can't do that, by the way, because they don't have the money for it. So those we see here had the money to do so. They come here, but they take enormous risks. Many thousands drown in the Mediterranean. We've seen the horrible footage. When they arrive here, however, they will not be declared admissible and have to go back. However, people are reasonably calculating. So I guess these people don't do that anymore. They don't get in a boat anymore. They're not gonna hire that human smuggler anymore. They stay in the region and then it works. It would be a good thing for Mr Buma to recognise that and cooperate with that solution instead of pretending every time that there is some kind of contradiction that is not there. We're trying to solve the problem. Just work with me for once!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u153	I really wonder how many empty promises the VVD still wants to afford, because Mr Zijlstra keeps coming back with his statement that the problem can be solved in this way. I think there are 150 MPs in the region for shelter. That must be done well, but 41 of those 150 Members of Parliament make the empty promise that if we go for that solution, the borders will be closed. That's what the VVD does. I don't think that's possible. There is a very big problem. We're all looking for a solution. Yet the VVD insists that, if we choose the solution of the VVD, the boundaries will close and people will stay there. Moreover, there is no question of inadmissibility. It is a question of rejecting the request, and of appealing against it, at least if the VVD does not want to abolish that possibility. That may take months, but those people are long ago in the Netherlands. The problem of return remains. So what Mr Zijlstra says is not true. Stop making that empty promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u154	Mr Buma keeps trying. Yesterday he denied on the radio that Europe had decided something, whereas it is just in the Minutes. Now let him stop with the image like we're doing something we can't do. Six months ago, we presented a plan. The CDA then reacted that that was impossible and that it couldn't. Other qualifications were also used. However, last week it became government policy. Last Monday, the European Council gave its agreement. Nothing's impossible. If politicians continue to think only in trouble and only see bears on the road, such as Mr Buma, we will not solve the problems. Politicians have a sacred duty to provide a solution to these major problems. That's not easy. But if you can't, if you don't want to, you better find another job. If politicians don't want to see that anymore, let them stop. We're gonna do it. We take responsibility. We're gonna keep going for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u155	I should like to discuss this sacred duty with Mr Zijlstra, but with the budget. We were given the budget on Friday under embargo. We have been full of it, especially those parts that have not yet been leaked. So this time it was quite clear. On this major issue, we know that there are millions and millions of refugees in the regions around Syria. We also know what the cabinet plans are, in which reception in the region is very central. What is being done in the financial sense about this reception in the region? Could Mr Zijlstra help me? Will there be more money for shelter in the region next year, also because of the growing problems and the clear statement of the government's "care in the region"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u156	Yeah, 110 million, as the cabinet said in last week's letter. That's when the cabinet came up with this plan. The budget was already with the printer at the time. This is a direction that Europe must support. That's what's happened now. We will have to shoulder our responsibilities, both here and in Europe, to ensure that safe reception in the region is provided with substance and that it is properly designed. That's gonna cost money, too. We're not running away from that. We will take that responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u157	I thought that too: 110 million. Yes, it was in the letter. We do not see it in the budget. The amount of 110 million is attached to humanitarian aid for 2015. If we look at what we did in 2015 for humanitarian aid, and the opposition emergency aid fund, at the time, has ensured that this was done, we note that in 2015 484 million is available for this purpose. If we add up the amounts for humanitarian aid and the emergency aid fund for 2016, we will reach 354 million. That's a cut. Even if you add 110 million, you won't get the amount last year. Mr Zijlstra, you were involved in this budget. Is this true? If this is true, these are the figures we are getting out of it, and you should actually say: it is not right at all. We want shelter in the region and we make a statement about it. We want to do something there. But they're just cutting back. There's gonna be cuts!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mr Slob is confusing a few things. The budget is ahead; that is clear. The cabinet has said that we are really going to take a fundamentally different course in this area. We received the letter on this last week. That letter rightly states that this also means that part of the money that is now being spent on reception here in the Netherlands, asylum procedures and everything around it will have to go that way. That's right. Where the UNHCR still has to make voluntary contributions, we will have to shoulder our responsibilities and work much more with compulsory contributions. Those are the organisations that we need to use. We are going to take that responsibility and you can appeal to us. Otherwise, our plan would indeed be an empty promise. It is not, because we are just going to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr President, I think you will repeat it to me as President of this Chamber: as a parliament, we must do it with the budgetary documents we have received from the cabinet. That is what we are getting these figures from. Of course there is a letter from the cabinet with all intentions, but I want to see it back in the budget. That makes sense, doesn't it? If I look into that budget, I can see that we are not getting the amount for the past year, even if we had the amount of 110 million in 2016. I can also see that the cabinet is pushing huge amounts of money, which are being removed from places, for example, development cooperation, which you are thinking of: there are even bigger gaps there. It's really a mess. If the words "care in the region" are really worth anything, there will also have to be financial contributions for this major, growing problem. I heard you right: we're gonna take care of it. I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u160	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u161	Last year, 30,000 asylum seekers came to the Netherlands. Meanwhile, the counter is at 3,000. That leads to enormous social unrest. Next year, it's gonna cost a billion dollars. I wonder if for the VVD there is a maximum number of asylum seekers that the Netherlands can carry?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u162	I'm not going to speak in numbers. We have a duty, where there are major problems in the world, to help solve them and to protect people. You don't have to do that in the Netherlands. That is at the heart of the government's plan. I'm not gonna argue about whether there should be a sister or so much. We are going to help protect it, especially in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u163	Of course, it's super relevant to how many people we're talking about. We can already see that it is far beyond the absorption capacity of the Netherlands. There is talk of displacement in the housing market. It's gonna cost 1 billion next year. It leads to social unrest in and around asylum-seekers' centres. I find it very worrying that the VVD here cannot indicate what the final station is, which the Netherlands can tolerate as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u164	I do not want to discuss what the Netherlands can tolerate. I want to have the discussion, and we have done so, how we can ensure that we receive people in their own region, that they are taken as close as possible to their own home and fireplace and have a safe and protected place. That is the discussion I want to have, so I do not need to have a discussion at all about the reception capacity of the Netherlands. We have built our society as it is, with very nice social services. I have always been clear about the fact that open borders and extensive social provisions do not go hand in hand in the long term. If that is what Mr Van Klaveren means, then we agree. That is why I want to see how we solve this in the region, and that is why I am not going to discuss quotas and how many people are allowed in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u165	Yeah, but the point is, of course, those people are already inside and those people are still coming in. So again the question: is there a maximum number of asylum seekers for the VVD that can host or receive the Netherlands or whatever Mr Zijlstra wants to do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u166	There's no answer to that question. If a great war breaks out in Europe tomorrow, we will have the region of Europe in which we need to take care of it. During the First World War we had 1 million Belgians in the Netherlands. If something like this were to happen again tomorrow, the border of the Netherlands would simply be open to them and over time they will just go back. Those are big differences, because it is within the region. That is why we want shelter in our own region, so that these people do not end up far from home. That is why we have come up with this plan and I would like to say to Mr Van Klaveren: support it for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u167	It is well-liked, reception in the region, but the fact is that the vast majority of refugees are already being received in the region at the moment. All those people who come here come not so much from the fireplace itself, but first left for a refugee camp. Sometimes they live there for two, three, four years and see that the conditions in which they have to live there are so bad that they feel forced and see no other option but to get in a rickety boat and come here. What Mr Zijlstra is describing here, that shelter in the region, is a panorama. I see that there is indeed no funding in the budget. The question we need to answer is: what are we doing in the meantime with the people who are now dying in refugee camps, with countries in the region that cannot cope with the pressure? What do we do in the meantime? How many people are we prepared to take in extra, for example through the UNHCR? Right now, there's 500 of them. 500, on those millions living there in the region!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u168	I see no need to invite additional people where we have not created that safe region, because we are now getting them in with a lot of currents. I think it is the wrong approach to say: we have a problem with the numbers of immigrants coming here, so as a solution we are going to include even more. I don't think that's the idea. Our responsibility is to ensure that reception in the region is improved. There are camps that are quite good, but there are also a lot of camps where it is indeed not pleasant. Back a little bit. Let us make it clear to each other that we have an obligation from refugee treaties to offer people protection, to provide them with a safe place. When people come here from a shelter camp, because of the perspective that Europe offers and the opportunities that lie here, I understand that as the best. I'd probably make the same choice. However, that is something other than providing protection. They already have that protection there. In their case, there is no need from the refugee problem to come here. That is why we must ensure that reception in the region is improved so that they do not have to come here. We do have a duty to improve that. That is what the Cabinet letter says, and that is what I think is right. We must stop confusing these things and stop thinking that the people who come here are doing that because they need protection here. They had often found protection in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u169	We must awaken from the illusion that people come here for fun. We must awaken from the illusion that we can accommodate everyone and everything in the region. The fact is that people are dying out there right now. The World Food Organization has reduced food aid by a third. 80% of the kids in those camps can't go to school. Then how can you talk about safety? How can you say: it's actually fine in the region, I don't understand why they're flowing to Europe? The fact remains. Even if it is your ideal to accommodate all those people in the region, it is not even settled within five or maybe ten years in the present and next year. So the question we have to ask ourselves is: is it just empty words and the remark that we all find it very sad for those refugees? Or are we prepared to take in extra people here in Europe? The cynical thing is, if we don't catch them ourselves, if we don't get them ourselves, they're gonna come here, on those crappy boats. Then people keep drowning and finding death on a flight to freedom. That's a choice we make here with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u170	That is precisely why we have submitted our plan. We have done so to ensure that they do not have to do so because they are taken care of in that region. I repeat it to Mr Klaver, because we agree that we must improve these camps. We agree on that. Then these people won't come this way because of a lack of food. The safety and protection of people who have fled from a country of war where they are persecuted is often present. However, the living conditions can be much better. That's why it's a good thing we're going in that direction. That is what we are going to do. This will prevent them from getting on that boat and prevent them from falling into the hands of smugglers. That's how we're gonna stop all these miserable images.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u171	Again, for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u172	Let me go with Mr Zijlstra. Imagine if he's right that we could improve the circumstances there. Then that did not happen next year and not even within now and a period of five years. That is exactly my question to Mr Zijlstra: do we accept and accept the VVD that people will continue to come here for the next five years at risk of their own lives? Do we accept images of children dying on the Mediterranean coast because we do not collect them ourselves and we do not offer them safe escape? That is the consequence of the VVD's plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u173	I don't think so. The consequence of that plan is that people no longer have to get on a boat. Indeed, this is not settled from today to tomorrow. I'd love to, but that's an illusion. This is gonna take some time. However, the world's largest economic power, Europe, has embraced it and we can move many mountains. So it's gonna work. In the meantime, the cabinet has said in a European context: because the problem has not yet been resolved, we also agree with the VVD on the redistribution of refugees who have already come here. We also take this responsibility for the short term. We're not running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u174	It is such a shame that the VVD takes hostage each time in its own illusion and that the solution becomes available only so much later. I read a very positive message in all the documents: fortunately there is now a humane policy for the asylum seekers who have been processed. The VVD agrees. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u175	We have always been in favour of a humane policy for processed asylum seekers. That's a return.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u176	I am surprised that the budget includes more than 10 million a year and 20 million a year for the reception of displaced asylum seekers in the coming years. I think it is about 1,000 cases; the cabinet has almost fallen for it. That amounts to €20,000 per processed asylum seeker. Cities will again have the opportunity to receive them humanely, as they already do, as long as the expansion policy does not work. It's reserved in the budget, isn't it? It is 10 million one time and 20 million for the years to come, each year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u177	That's not a surprise, is it? That was also in the letter we sent this spring on how we are going to improve the policy of returning asylum seekers who have been detained. We have agreed that in a number of places within the time limit of a limited number of weeks, it will be tasted whether people really want to participate in return. If that is the case, then they will receive that shelter until the moment of return is realized. That's the policy we're going to implement. We said at the time: that also costs some money. That's what you put in the budget. I don't know where the surprise came from, because I think we saw this one coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u178	The surprise to him is that the Justice budget is one big cheese, but it did succeed, and I am only happy to break the cramp in which the VVD was in and the hostage situation in which the PvdA was in. If you spend money on it, as several authorities have ordered, and you put it in the budget, with another 20 million a year for the years to come, then you accept that those mayors and cities regulate the bed-bath bread in a decent manner as long as the government policy is inadequate. A budget full of cheese, but this is well arranged. The VVD is through the pump. I would therefore like to see the concrete plans quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u179	Interesting conclusions, but again not right. I think the Secretary of State is still discussing how to shape this question with the VNG. How are we going to ensure that more people will return in the way discussed in an extensive debate in this house? In other words: do not determine on day one or one wants to return, give some time, after a limited number of weeks, to use that term again, to determine whether one really wants to cooperate and if one really cooperates, provision will be made, until one actually leaves. If it turns out that people are not cooperating, they will be expelled. That is quite different from the current bed-bath bread arrangements, and that is also at the heart of the solution of the cabinet and of the proposal that the cabinet will undoubtedly make in the autumn. Then it must be out with the VNG first. That is what the letter says: on 1 November we want to have an agreement with the VNG, otherwise the financing of bed-bath bread schemes will stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u180	I suggest that you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u181	I've been talking about the threats in the world and the instability. Those threats are sometimes awfully close. Anyone who steps into a Thalys to Brussels or Paris will think for a moment: hm, what happened again in August? That danger doesn't leave anyone unmoved, not even me. No matter how hard our security people watch over our safety, day and night, the chance of attacks remains. That creates fear and uncertainty. Everyone knows you can never completely rule out risks. Security is a core task of the government, so politicians can expect us to take action. The cabinet is well aware of this and acts in a balanced manner in the eyes of the VVD. Our security services, our eyes and ears in the fight for security, are getting more than 100 million more. After last year's extra 100 million, the defense is getting almost 400 million more in structural terms. I admit, it takes more than that. However, the tide of neglecting our security has now turned forever. That is necessary, because the world is on the move, literally. The world's population is growing explosively. The greatest growth is taking place in our backyard, in Africa and the Middle East. Over the next few decades, the population there will double. The largest population growth ever, with huge consequences. This population growth is taking place in the context of increasing instability, increasing insecurity and a lack of opportunities to build a good life in their own country. That puts millions of people on the move. We see the beginning of a migration of people, with Europe as its destination. We politicians have the important task of getting a grip on that movement. It is not an option to rest and say that there is no solution. We must dare to step outside the beaten track. We have to do that to deal with this problem. That is what the Netherlands can expect from us, and that is what all these refugees can expect from us. Political parties that do not dare are not worth their existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u182	I have a question about security and defense. Mr Zijlstra says that structuralally nearly 400 million are going. That is, of course, the beautiful side of the story. However, as regards what will come next year, the General of the Army has said that, for example, the National Reserve still needs to be reduced. I appreciate some money coming in, that's good. But isn't the assignment the target instead of the 100 million more or less? Shouldn't we tell the DOD and all those reservists, you're doing a good job, you're staying? Should we not be prepared to make the funds available for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u183	I didn't say for nothing that there's more to it. This was, in my view, the maximum achievable in this budget. As a VVD, we will also take responsibility for future budgets. What the Minister gives to this, I leave to the cabinet. The Cabinet rules and the Chamber controls. The answer to Mr Buma's key question, namely whether it is no longer necessary, is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u184	I am thinking back to last year's Van der Staaij motion in which the cabinet was instructed to ensure that the defence was put in order. As far as I'm concerned, it's too late next year. It is already a question of filling the gaps that still exist. We will make proposals for this ourselves, but I hope that the VVD and the cabinet will really consider how we can solve these problems in the short term. We really need to get rid of a defence that is only making short-term cuts that are bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u185	That safety is important. I'm not just saying that today. We have not only seen these tragic images of the migration crisis in recent weeks. It was clear months ago, actually years ago, that something had to happen. The VVD proposed this spring to solve the problem in a structural way. At the heart of the plan was the protection of genuine refugees in the region. There we offer a safe place, with the consequence that in Europe there is no right to asylum for these people. With this, we offer real refugees security and contain the increasing flow of migration towards Europe and the Netherlands. Cynicism and hoon were part of the VVD when it presented this solution. According to some, the problem was insoluble. But as a father, when I see images of children drowning, I don't want to accept that such a problem is insoluble. We must have a political answer to this. I understand very well that people from Africa, the Middle East or other unsafe parts of the world want to come to Europe. In their position, I'd probably like to do the same. That's exactly what unscrupulous smugglers use. They take advantage of the fact that everyone in Europe is eligible for asylum. If we don't do something about that, the footage of sinking boats will continue to haunt us. Then people from Africa and the Middle East will continue to come here. Many people realize that and expect an answer from politics. That is why I am pleased that last week the cabinet opted for a clear line. The cabinet says that there must be safe reception of asylum seekers in its own region. Safe reception is no longer necessary in Europe. The cabinet is clear: in that case there is no right to asylum in Europe. Those who nevertheless take the big risk and hire a smuggler are immediately returned to the safe haven in their own region. This destroys the cynical business model of the smugglers. This will prevent many, many thousands of people from drowning unnecessarily and the flow of migration becomes uncontrollable. Please, let's not fool ourselves. It is also the terrorists of ISIS and their accomplices who make big money from human trafficking. It is the terrorists of ISIS and their accomplices who co-finance their terror with the proceeds of human trafficking. This will lead to more misery and more refugees. It's the terrorists of ISIS and their accomplices. We just had a little debate about "Ticking Time Bombs" between the refugees. We, as politicians, will then have to show decisiveness, both here in The Hague and at European level. We can continue to raise all kinds of objections and see all kinds of bears on the road and continue to talk about them, but we can also try to see the possibilities as politicians. Now let's get our hands together. Nothing's impossible. Six months ago, we presented a plan that was impossible for many of us. Last week this cabinet policy was adopted and last Monday the European Council agreed. Nothing's impossible. We can certainly get a grip on this problem. We can certainly take the wind out of the sails and prevent human tragedies. We can certainly retake control of our migration policies and curb refugee flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u186	It remains fascinating what I hear here, because this text could have been spoken from a to z by Mr Klaver. He says the exact same thing. I can see him coming forward, too. Mr Klaver says that we must make the world so beautiful that flights are no longer necessary. That is what Mr Zijlstra is saying here. We all do. Mr Pechtold pointed out that Mr Zijlstra then did nothing to make that happen, because the budget does not allow it at all. Mr Zijlstra is the only European who believes that a decision was taken at the European Summit last Monday. Mr Zijlstra is the only European who believes that a decision was taken at the European Summit last Monday. Finally, the magic word does not come out: the borders are closing. I would remind Mr Zijlstra of that great lie in the piece he just quoted. "All European Member States will have to apply the same asylum policy." We all agree with that. "There are no more asylum applications within Europe..." This 'no longer possible' has already been referred to by Mr Zijlstra: it is possible but the application is rejected. But now it comes: '... and the European external borders are really closing'. Mr Zijlstra has not said that now, and that is very clever, because they are not really closing. My only question is: be honest and acknowledge it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u187	We can do the whole debate again, but I will give a brief summary. The moment the plan that I have just explained and the safe ports have been created, people don't have to go this way anymore. If they do come, their application is inadmissible and they go right back. Then you didn't physically close the boundaries, but you actually created that situation. Mr Buma obviously does not want to understand it, fine, but we are going for that solution because it is the only way we can control the flow of refugees and prevent people from drowning in the Mediterranean. If Mr Buma does not want to see that, fine, but then I would like to hear how he wants to solve it, because he obviously still has a brilliant thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u188	I wish I had one, because we're all looking for a solution. As Mr Zijlstra now points out, it is precisely Jesse Klaver's text: let us succeed in letting no one come to Europe so that no more requests are made here. I think we all share this goal. In my view, there is broad agreement that we should enable reception in the region to be possible and to tackle the source, I say, but there is a difference: this bullshit by us tough VVDs is not true. So I'd like to acknowledge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u189	Conclusion 15 of last Monday's European Council was very clear. That is precisely what it says, namely that Europe will create safe ports and that it will not be possible for Member States to declare applications for asylum in Europe admissible. There is then that choice; so you can do so. That is quite different from what Mr Klaver says. Mr Klaver believes that we should bring more people here and bring them into an asylum procedure. The VVD says: no, we create safe ports in the region, where we offer protection, then there is no point in coming here, and if you do, you go back. That's completely different.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u191	The CDA obviously does not want to understand it, and that says a lot about the CDA's solution orientation. It would be a good thing if the CDA were to contribute to this solution if it wanted to help tackle this major problem. This is not a political gibberish, it is so great that we must all join forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u193	I'm gonna try. I was pleased to hear Mr Zijlstra's comment at the beginning of his speech that we should look in particular at the causes of people fleeing. Of course, that's problem number one. If there's any reason to run, there's a lot to go after. I have also read with a great deal of surprise before I get too excited, I hope Mr Zijlstra will explain that again. He even said that the intervention in Iraq did not go well and that we did not think about it. What did he mean by that verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u194	It has been shown that overthrowing a regime that was also the core of an article that I published this spring does not necessarily lead to much festivities. We have seen this in Libya, and we have seen it in Iraq where it has led to instability. That is something else, by the way, I say to Mr Roemer, because you also have to build up a little disappointment rather than that we are not in favour of occasional military intervention. Military intervention also regularly helps to solve major problems. The Jezidis on the mountain were saved by military intervention. Kobani has been liberated from IS by military intervention. Cities like Erbil and Tigris were liberated by military intervention. I hope Mosul follows. Military intervention therefore makes sense from time to time, but we sometimes need to think more carefully about it. Not because we think it is nice that we overthrow someone who does not share our values, but because we sometimes get someone or groups who are worse. That was the essence of my article and I stand for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u195	I think some of us can agree on this. Iraq has indeed not been given any thought. There has been no thought about what it means for the population groups that remain when one is going to bluff over the other and the other no longer gets a chance. Then you create something like an ISIS. I am very curious to see what this will mean in the future, when we are going to talk again about bombing or military intervention by force without any political solution at all. Those two can't be together. The SP Group also supported missions, if that were to happen or if genocide was to occur. Then you must be able to intervene. Does the VVD agree with the SP that military intervention without a proper political solution is impossible?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u196	No, I disagree. The examples I have just given show precisely that you sometimes have to take military action when there is no political solution to the overall problem. The 'total problem' of Syria, a terrible word, is so hugely complex that we do not just solve it from the West because we have an image of it. Mr Roemer and I agree on this immediately. That doesn't mean you don't have to do anything in Syria. You might have to do something. Look at Kobani, look at the Jezidis. Then the VVD will always assume its responsibility and agree to such a mission.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u197	Then I find the self-reflection of the VVD in this area a bit disappointing. That is a pity, because military intervention without political solutions will always lead to new conflicts. Who do you have to support? Who do you have to bomb? 80% of the victims come from the Assad regime. Who are we going to support now? Where are we going with our army and our weapons? I have another question. I'm sorry, but I'm very, very triggered and focused on removing the cause. In his speech, which I really listened to with interest, Mr Zijlstra also spoke about people fleeing Africa. How does Mr Zijlstra intend to do that? After all, we know that poverty is causing people to flee there and that we are getting ten times more money from Africa than we are providing support to Africa. What opportunities does Africa get if we just keep robbing it empty?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u198	If it is about the causes of the flow of refugees and tackling them at the source, then I am talking about receiving them in the region. Therefore, ensure a good reception in the region. I am thinking of the examples given by Mr Klaver, of people sitting in a camp but travelling on because there is no food. We have to take that away. That is how we tackle the flows of refugees at the source. I will say frankly that I do not have the illusion that we can achieve world peace. I don't know who said that anymore; I think it was Mr Buma. That would really be at the source. Conflicts are there and will be there. Poverty will, unfortunately, also be there. There's gonna be inequality. If, therefore, people flee and security is at stake, that is why we are protecting people in the refugee treaties. That's the point. We should not try to take all the problems in the world into account in this context, because then I know one thing for sure, and that is that it will become so complex that we will not solve anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u199	The little bit of optimism I had has already gone away. That's too bad. I had really hoped that we would find each other at this point. If the Netherlands is at the forefront of giving companies that produce in Africa so much tax advantage in the Netherlands through constructions that they do not pay taxes there, then we will keep those countries poor. Then people will stay on the run. So the VVD does not give at home to address these causes. After 15 years of intervention and bombing in the Middle East, we see that it has been counterproductive and that stability is farther away than ever. The VVD refuses to acknowledge that. I fear that the flow of refugees will continue in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u200	On that last point: me and the VVD have clearly indicated that you always have to think carefully before you make the choice to, for example, try to change a regime. If you don't know what you're getting in return, you can create an even bigger problem. I think we agree on that, so Mr Roemer may still have some optimism. But we don't agree on certain things. I believe that the Netherlands has a responsibility to intervene, even if there is no political end solution in sight, for example in situations of people in need, such as the Jezidis who are really threatened with genocide or when IS is about to commit major atrocities in a city like Kobani. The Netherlands will therefore take its responsibility to intervene, taking into account the advantages and disadvantages. I'm not saying we don't do that anyway. I'll say we're always willing to do that, but whether we do it depends on the circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u201	The VVD has indicated that she doesn't want to close the border. The VVD has also indicated that it does not want to set up permanent border controls. Is the VVD then at least willing to allow discouragement to be part of the policy, just as the Danes do, by halving the allowances for asylum seekers, by not paying any more recreational courses, by giving people no more priority in finding a home, but also by actively indicating in the countries through which they travel that the Netherlands is no place to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u202	I do not know how the latter should be designed: actively indicate in the countries through which one travels, that the Netherlands... ?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u203	Yeah, like the Danes do, by flyers. They send people there and indicate that Denmark is not a place to go permanently, and that they should not come at all. Are you prepared to allow the same policy of discouragement that the Danes are pursuing to become part of Dutch policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u204	I don't have the impression that that's very successful. I don't know how we're gonna do that either. Are we gonna fly a plane over people and throw flyers out of there? As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna come up with some real solutions: we're gonna make sure those people don't come here anymore. That's a real solution. And the people who have already come here and come in, we catch up nicely and we test. If they arrive with a false passport, Mr Wilders' point, they will be rejected and returned to the country of origin. We always have, and we always will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u205	It is precisely to prevent these people from coming here that discouragement is wise, as the Danes do. You don't have to do that with planes. You can just send people there and let them say that they are not welcome in Denmark or, in our case, in the Netherlands. You can indicate in the Netherlands that it is becoming a bit less florissant, for example by halving the allowances. There are now families that get €800 per month. I think that is very much, especially when compared to Dutch people sitting at the bottom. Those people still get priority here when they find houses. This policy can also be pursued in the Netherlands. It discourages people from coming here. Is the VVD prepared to make that part of Dutch policy, following the example of the Danes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u206	If problems arise, the VVD is always willing to come up with a solution. For example, fees were a problem in Germany. The President of Serbia almost begged the German Government at one point for half of these allowances, because he got entire groups of people from Kosovo in his country who came to Germany just because of that compensation. If such situations arise, I think that all parties in this house will understand the reasonableness of not to provoke them. That is not the case in the Netherlands. If it is, we will undoubtedly be working with the cabinet and resolving it. And if border controls are needed, we'll introduce them. So if that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u207	I see almost an agreement in this debate between Mr Roemer and Mr Zijlstra: the difference between words and reality is enormous. We had an interrupting debate with Mr Roemer about what was and was not in the counter-budget, and whether that was in line with the ambitions. Now we are not debating the counter-budget, but the budget of a cabinet supported by the VVD, because there is a VVD cabinet here. I note that no additional funds are being allocated for reception in the region, but less. The budget needed to achieve this reception in the region is 130 million lower in 2016. To what extent does this correspond to the ambition of the VVD to do more about reception in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u208	I indicated earlier that the cabinet proposed a policy change last week. I'm sorry about this technical story, but it's just the way it is. That's when the budget was done. The cabinet made a major change last week. I assume that this major change will also be translated into policy and into the financial flows that are taking place. I would like to hear from the cabinet, as well as Mr Klaver, how it is going to shape this. However, it seems to me a little difficult for a cabinet that had not had that line until last week, to rewrite the whole budget in a week, because it was already ready. This does impose an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u209	Mr Zijlstra knows that I am not asking for the budget to be rewritten. It may well be that a supplement is added or that a letter is written, in which it is very simple to indicate how we are going to shift this. There are choices being made and that is why we are now talking about the whole, the General Political Reviews. If Mr Zijlstra says that this will ultimately take place in the policy and in the budget, I would ask the cabinet to come up with a letter tomorrow setting out how it will implement in the budget the ambitions of the VVD and the ambitions that the cabinet has embraced. I hope that Mr Zijlstra agrees with me. How else are we really gonna do this next year? How else can this ambition that the VVD wants to realize ever become a reality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u210	The cabinet has already indicated in its letter that extra money is going to go. We see that movement in the budget. There's tension there, I'll admit that immediately. I also like to hear from the cabinet how it is going to shape this, but let us not create the picture as if the Netherlands is going to do this on its own. This is why it is so important that we in Europe have received this support. We must use the European Development Cooperation Fund for this purpose. I think it is very important that we should be able to support countries such as Lebanon and Jordan which are now not eligible to send money because of the ODA (Official Development Assistance) criteria. I want us to settle that discussion. I am pleased to hear from Mr Klaver, and I am pleased to see the willingness to look into this in order to actually tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u211	Mr Klaver, your question concerns the budgetary control of the Chamber. I assume that there will be a letter of amendment if there is a major change in the budget. I see the question you have both asked earlier as a question to the cabinet. There will then be a later moment when we can still debate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u212	Mr President, my request is through you to receive it by tomorrow, before the cabinet responds. You may not take this request seriously, but we are talking about the overall budget. If you want to move between budget lines now, this has to be done now. Soon the Financial Reviews will be. We need to be able to have a debate on it. That is why I ask you to put forward a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u213	I do not have such a problem with the leader of the VVD in his own creative world, but I think it is such a shame that in the meantime people are being put on the wrong foot and passing through precious moments in which we can solve the refugee problems. Mr Zijlstra just said something special again. He said that if the measures do not work, we will re-introduce border controls. He suggested that you stop people with border controls. But you can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u214	Mr Pechtold refers to my little debate with Mr Van Klaveren. That is where my comment was in order. If countries around us, like Germany now, take such measures, you will not get away from doing so yourself at some point. Our ambition, from day one, last spring, has always been to come up with a different solution. Otherwise we will end up with a Europe with closed borders. In fact, we will end with the bankruptcy of the European idea. I wouldn't want that. That is why I say to Mr Pechtold: embrace that direction of solution, because it prevents your nightmare. It prevents us from closing all borders in Europe. The prevention of this seems to me to be a very good cause. We are preventing large flows of refugees to Europe. We are preventing the dramatic images on the Mediterranean and we are preventing an implosion of Europe. This must be all the reason for D66 to agree, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u215	I wholeheartedly agree to begin world peace in the Middle East. That's really good. Balkenende IV has written it down as one of its goals, next to 100,000 less stolen bikes. I remember that beautiful prospectus. It didn't work out at the time. I am concerned that Mr Zijlstra continues to claim in this debate that border controls, according to the Schengen Treaty, mean that borders are closed. That's not gonna happen. This is not happening in Germany; it is not happening in the other Schengen countries. I want Mr Zijlstra to acknowledge that border controls, if you introduce them temporarily, do not mean that the right to asylum will cease. It can't be. Then Schengen must be cancelled. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u216	We don't disagree on that. That is exactly the discussion I had with Mr Buma. You can build a fence around it. Then you've physically nailed the border, but if someone cuts a hole in it and goes through it, you still have a problem. That is why the solution of the cabinet is a good one, because it creates such a problem. Mr. Pechtold keeps talking about the bears on the road. This problem is so big, what is his solution? I heard D66 say last week that it is not soluble and that she accepts what is happening. A VVD will never accept that you are not trying to come up with a solution for these big problems. That might be the difference between D66 and the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u217	The big difference between the VVD and D66 is that you don't make promises before, during or after elections that you can't keep. The VVD once promised that no more money would go to the Greeks. The VVD promised every Dutchman €1,000. A secretary of state who would release Volkert van der G. would be fired. That is also promised by the VVD. Now another promise is being made. I don't care if there are any VVD-choosers disappointed.I'm sorry for them, but they think again that the VVD makes a promise here. Border controls will not close the borders. In fact, even more so, and then Mr Wilders is right before they go to the shelter in the same van to assert their rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u218	I am getting the impression that Mr Pechtold has not even read what has been proposed. Let us be clear: this is precisely what we are preventing from doing. We keep people from getting into a boat like that. This is the solution that I believe should be followed. It is a difficult solution, I admit that immediately, but I promise with it nothing I could not keep. Last Monday, Europe agreed to the cabinet proposal. Read it in conclusion 15. So don't go on that route now. The cabinet has made a proposal. It is a bold proposal, which has now been accepted in part by Europe. The other part, namely that we must also have a solution for the short term, still needs a majority. That's also gonna work if I get it right. With this we have a direction of resolution that we can move forward. This is not easy, but easy solutions to these problems do not exist. Mr Pechtold may not like this proposal, but let him say what his solution is. That would adorn him, but at that point I hear a deafening silence until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u219	I assume that the last question will be answered in Mr Pechtold's first term. Just a quick question. It's really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u220	I will. If Mr Zijlstra does not follow me, he is too much in his own makeable world. It's like the goddamn Justice budget. Mr Zijlstra thinks: you know what, we remove all the traffic lights, we remove all the cops, because we agree that every traffic user is going to follow the rules, and then you can remove all of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u221	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u222	So my question is: why is Mr Zijlstra telling people here that the flow of refugees can be stopped? That's not true. You can try to arrange it in a civilized way. Four of the five refugees are already being received there. That's gotta be better. As a civilized, decent and rich country, you facilitate the stay of that part of the refugees who come here until they can return and you give them something to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u223	As a civilised country, you ensure that 97% of the refugees, who are still in the region, are well received. That is also an elaboration of this plan. This means that these people do not have to get on the boat because they can leave the camps. Security, protection, that is the core of refugee treaties. We will build that core in the region, and that will help that 97% of the refugees, namely the part that is already in the region. Their conditions are being improved, and that is a huge step forward. If you want a civilized solution, you have to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u224	At a distance the most striking statement in these General Political Reviews so far I do not think that I have heard a VVD leader make such a statement in recent years, which Mr Zijlstra just did on behalf of the VVD, namely that closing the borders is a dream vision. Closing the borders is a dream vision. That's what the VVD stands for right now. That's exactly why people will always come. Because there are politicians, as Mrs Merkel says: come, "wir purchase es," it is all possible, come all here. And because there is a leader of the Lower House Group of the VVD, Mr Zijlstra, who says: closing the borders is a dream image. People will keep coming anyway because it's a disguised invitation to come. If they come for their benefits, their Mieles and their residence permits, they can just apply for asylum. If they were to be rejected, they would of course go into illegality, because the same representative of the VVD says: illegality is not a criminal offence. In fact, he says: you get bed, bath and bread and if you wait a moment, the VVD also gives you a general pardon. The latter happened last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u225	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u226	No, I don't have a question. What I want to say is that this gentleman, the representative of the VVD, is simply the representative of an asylum seeker part of this world. That's what he's standing for. It's unprecedented that a VVD man stands for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u227	I keep repeating that Mr Wilders' dream is that if you build a fence, people don't crawl through that fence. Well, they cut a hole in it and then they're here. That is why you must ensure that if they come here and that safe haven is there, that right to asylum is no longer there and that people will be declared inadmissible and returned to that region. That's the only solution that works. For Mr Wilders' fence does not work; on that I agree with all the speakers who have said it. That is why you need to ensure an effective policy whereby people who come here no longer go into procedure and their asylum application is rejected and then they go back. That is at the heart of the policy and that is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u228	Does Mr Wilders have a question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u229	I think I'm talking about my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u230	An interruption is a question. That's why I'm asking that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u231	In response to Mr Zijlstra, I would like to say the following. Look what's happening in Hungary. That is where the border with Serbia was closed. No one's getting in there anymore. They don't crawl under the fence either, because if they do, she's gonna be in prison for three years. That is the law that came into force yesterday in Hungary. They're going to Croatia now. They do. Look at the closing of borders between Hungary and Austria, or between Austria and Germany. It's working. It's behavioral effects, and people see that. Here in the Netherlands, a representative of the largest political party, a government party, says that closing borders is a dream image. I'd know. Half of Africa is coming here, thanks to Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u232	Half of Africa, or whoever you mean, will consider whether to apply for asylum in the Netherlands or in any European country, or whether to stay here in a long-term procedure. The question is whether this protection should be sought here. That's the message the VVD is sending. Make sure that these people have a good alternative in the region, so that they are safely taken care of there. If they do come here, they have no right to asylum here. That is a much more effective message and a much more effective means than what Mr Wilders says. For the sake of clarity, I repeat that we must avoid ending up with a Europe in which all borders are closed. When we had that, people eventually came this way. We must prevent this, because that is what the European idea is about. I do not want to end there; therefore this plan is a good alternative. In fact, as far as I can see, it is the only solution that can work. It must also be clear that care in our country is temporary. Now a five-year residence permit is being issued immediately, but safe reception in the region will have to be carried out within five years, as far as we are concerned. We would like to hear from the Cabinet whether it is possible to grant the residence permits only for a year, so that people do not stay here longer than is necessary and return to their own environment as soon as possible. All this is also necessary to maintain our social security systems. We must realise that allowing large groups of asylum seekers has an impact on the influx into our assistance, on the number of available rental homes and on the premiums in the care, which are already being paid with difficulty. It is quite clear that open borders and extensive social services do not go hand in hand. As a liberal, I attach great importance to social services, which enable us to cope with setbacks and adapt to a rapidly changing world. Liberals have been at the cradle of many social services. We have always taken responsibility for adapting and modernising them in good time. That's what voters can expect from politics. That is what the cabinet has done in recent years with all these reforms and cuts. Therefore, our country is ready for the opportunities ahead. For example, I see great opportunities in technological progress. There are new developments, such as biogenetics, the 3D printer or the quantum computer. We in the Netherlands are able to reap the benefits of rapid technological progress. We have succeeded in the past, and we will succeed again. Thanks to smart inventions and even smarter applications, we can do more work and create more jobs. We are constantly able to increase our well-being, our life expectancy and the opportunities to develop ourselves We are about the most productive people on earth. We are also the happiest, although the Dutch are also born complainants. Our universities and knowledge institutions are of a high level. The University of Wageningen and our farmers are able to feed half the world, which is hot! We can now grow crops on land where no one else has succeeded. We can make the world a better place through technological progress. There is a lack of fresh water; there is a lack of food. Dutch knowledge institutions and Dutch companies are able to offer beautiful solutions. We have in our country the solution to the water and food shortage in the world. Many people see and appreciate that and expect politics to encourage this and not get in the way of this. That will not happen, however. For example, I hear Mrs Thieme constantly pleading for even stricter requirements for our farmers and horticulturalists. She is successful in this, because many of her proposals are supported by a majority of the Chamber. As a result, however, there is an enormous amount of legislation and regulation about our farmers and gardeners. This makes it very difficult for our agriculture and horticulture, but this does not mean more sustainability, nor solutions to the water and food problem. For example, on the biodynamic open field desired by Mrs Thieme in Spain you will need 60 litres of water to grow a kilo of tomatoes, while in the Westland you will need 4 litres of water for a kilo of tomatoes, delicious Dutch tomatoes. What is more sustainable: the Thiemetomatians from Spain, or the kastomatists from our own Westland? This kind of innovation seems small, but is very symbolic. Now imagine: the tomato as a symbol of progress and progressiveness...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u233	... instead of stopping and protesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u234	Mr Roemer is a bit red now! Mr Zijlstra gives me a great power, I must say. Nota bene because of the proposals on my part the farmers are having a hard time now! Let's get the numbers. Every day, seven farmers have to stop their farms. That is not because of the fact that the Animal Party is in the Chamber, but that is the result of the policy of the CDA and the VVD of recent decades, which forced farmers to produce as cheap as possible, even below cost. Mr Zijlstra would very much like to conclude a trade agreement with the United States. That is TTIP, for which I also drew attention yesterday. This means that we are about to get cheap agricultural products from America on the Dutch market and in Europe. Hormone meat, chlorine chickens, genetically engineered crops, you name it! How is it that Mr Zijlstra pretends to stand up for the farmers here, while at the same time giving American farmers all the space to dump this mess on the market as cheaply as possible, at the expense of farmers here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u235	Our farmers are among the farmers with the highest animal welfare in the world, with the strictest environmental requirements, with the best cared stables and the best cared for agriculture and horticulture. That's a fact. But if you go too far at some point, with proposals for compulsory GPS equipment in cattle cars, fire drills in pig stables where you first have to chase those pigs out, then you have to get them back inside. I don't know how! That kind of proposal makes it difficult for farmers. Then we're through. That's the essence of my speech. Mrs Thieme doesn't have that power alone. I told you, that's a majority in the Chamber. But it would be good if that majority also looked at what has been achieved and dared to say at some point: our farmers have taken such great steps; if we let them take another step, they will soon disappear. Then the good stable is not in the Netherlands, where animal welfare has been properly arranged, but then it will be in... Well, what should we take? It'll be somewhere in South America or in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u236	I think in Ukraine, subsidised by the Netherlands by 30 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u237	And then it's right there. Then animal welfare will be worse off and we will all be worse off. So that's why the VVD says: stop it now!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u238	With the Dutch tax money, 30 million is actually being built in Ukraine, partly thanks to the VVD. Not at all! I didn't get an answer to my question. I asked Mr Zijlstra how he could now say that he stands up for the farmers, while at the same time, with a free trade agreement such as TTIP, he is ensuring that farmers in the Netherlands have to stop their business, because cheap agricultural products are dumped on the market from America? There are far less good requirements in relation to food safety, the environment and animal welfare. I would like to hear an answer from Mr Zijlstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u239	Mrs Thieme is right to ask that question again. I didn't answer that. I'm sorry about that. The VVD is a strong supporter of TTIP, precisely because it increases the chances of our farmers. There will be a huge market, but we must be careful not to increase the demands on our farmers so much that they will not only have such a competitive disadvantage in Europe but also in the larger market that they will no longer be able to survive. So I say: do that free trade agreement, including.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Open the big market for Dutch farmers, give them that prospect and do not stop progress here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u240	I would like to invite Mr Zijlstra to come with me to the farmers who are clearly concerned about the coming of this free trade agreement. What Mr Zijlstra has debated here is what the stables look like and what the farmers are producing! I'm sorry, chairman, but that's unworthy of a group chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u241	Mrs Thieme is, of course, quite right. What's gonna happen when we open up that market is that we pull in America's standards. Then the farmers in the Netherlands will no longer have a chance and certainly not those farmers who want to earn a normal living with a normal herd. I would go with Mr Zijlstra to look at a rule here or a rule there, but that was not the question at all. The standards in America mean that we are throwing all kinds of animal welfare standards, all kinds of environmental qualifications down so far that we are taking this shit this way. If farmers want to compete with this, they can only do one thing: also produce a puffy chicken or a chlorine pig, or what they are all called. If we consider it important, Mr Zijlstra, that animal welfare and environmental requirements are on a normal standard, then we should not open the market to countries that throw their hats at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u242	Firstly, I respond to the image that is constantly being created of American demands that are all so much lower. They are higher in many areas than in Europe. So let's find out now. Secondly, the objections raised by Mr Roemer were the same as those raised when it came to the European Economic Community, about cooperation between countries within Europe in order to create a larger market, to create economic opportunities and economic growth and to increase prosperity and jobs in a country like the Netherlands. Exactly the same arguments are now reappearing. That's why we have to do this. European economic cooperation has brought us enormous economic growth and TTIP is also going to bring Europe and the Netherlands a great deal. Stop with the doomsday as if America were some kind of third-world country where they do not demand food safety and so on. There they often have even stricter demands than here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u243	This comes back to what I said in my speech. The market has no morals, the market is there to earn as cheap as possible money and make profits. Especially for quality of work, for environmental requirements and for animal welfare, you try to set a standard in a civilised country. As we have also abolished child labour in the past because we felt that it was below the norm. When you open up the market on such a scale to countries that do not know these standards or apply those standards that are much lower, you import them to the Netherlands. This means that our sector must do so in order to compete. That means that we have lost those standards, which we so appreciate and which we normally find in a civilized country like the Netherlands. Don't compare that to other things that don't matter. It makes perfect sense that that happens, that's the race to the bottom.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u244	Again, the market makes sure we have food. The communist system, in which the government had to do so, failed miserably. So that's what the market is doing. And yes, the task of the government is to set decent standards on food safety and animal welfare; that is what is happening. But if there is one country that has doubts about TTIP in this area, then that country is on the other side of the Atlantic. The American demands are higher in many areas than the European ones. So for this plea, you should actually get on a plane and go to Congress to argue in favour of not closing TTIP because the European requirements are often lower than the American ones. So I say, open up the market, seize that economic opportunity. This will not lead to a deterioration in our quality of food and animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u245	Mr. Roemer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u246	I heard the same speech when the whole financial sector had to be opened up. Then we said: less rules in the financial sector, global, we all have to do that. We've seen what kind of mess that's become, what kind of crisis all over the world. We're gonna do this as well if we throw our standards, our standards, and bring everything in here so it becomes a race to the bottom. Wake up, not only in America but above all in this Chamber I say to the VVD here wake up and do not start.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u247	It's not a race to the bottom. That's what I say every time. Apparently, Mr Roemer doesn't want to hear it, but it's not. I repeat: the story is similar to the creation of the European Economic Community, namely cooperation and the creation of a large common market, including all the decent standards of food safety, and you name it all. It's good to make that move. The Netherlands, Europe, has benefited greatly from this. As far as I am concerned, we are also going to extract this economic growth, the potential contained in TTIP. It would be a shame not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u248	The comparison with Europe is beautiful. It is fair that Mr Zijlstra says that TTIP is actually expanding the internal market. We see in Europe that we have managed to enlarge the internal market, but not actually to create political governance and thereby ensure that citizens still have control over that internal market. How is Mr Zijlstra going to guarantee that we control what we, as citizens, consider important in terms of food safety standards and the financial sector? If we can't get it right in Europe, how do you guarantee it if you're going to open up your market to the United States right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u249	I believe that we have managed very well in Europe. What we should not do is this. There are European rules. In the Netherlands, over the last few years, we have put national Dutch headlines on top of those European rules, which are very neat and decent. I have just given a few examples of this. You shouldn't do that. It's my plea. I am not in favour of abolishing the rules in Europe; they are very good. Those apply to all of us. If we do it together with America, they'll apply to America. What we should not do is say that we are going to do a little more here and we are going to do a little more there. We do that too often in this house. Then you put our farms and our farmers in a disadvantage and we must stop doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u250	That is precisely the point when it comes to democracy. Of course, majorities can change here in parliament, and that is a good thing. Imagine that there would be a green majority in Parliament. Then I can easily imagine that there are quite different requirements in terms of animal welfare, food safety, agriculture or CO emissions. Then you have to be able to change. Suppose you record it all, as Mr Zijlstra says: you should not be able to deviate from it in the end, we must stick to it, because that is good for our business and for economic growth. Then you put economic growth above all those other important values, such as food safety, reducing CO emissions and fair trade. That's a shame. It eliminates democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u251	No, democracy will always be there. If the majority you mentioned were to decide to lay down a great many additional rules or to make agriculture impossible to live in this country, that would be possible. That is democracy and I will never oppose it. My plea is this. If you want to get that big market, implement the decent demands that we have made in Europe and which are going to be wider, properly and give our farmers, gardeners and other businesses equal opportunities, then give them equal opportunities. I understand that you feel differently politically, but accept the consequence. Some companies will disappear. Then some sectors will disappear. They don't go to countries where it's better arranged. They go to countries where things are worse. The environment will deteriorate. Food safety will then deteriorate. Then the durability is deteriorating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u252	I note that Mr Zijlstra is concerned about political majorities that arise in the House of Representatives. Did you now use Mrs Thieme to give a political message, for example to your coalition colleague, the Labour Party, on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u253	No, no, no, no, no. That's a political message to the PvdA I can give you every week. I don't have to do that through this chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u254	Then I'm a little surprised. You're concerned about majorities that arise here, but you're a government party. You can make agreements with the Labour Party. If you really think this is so important and are worried, why didn't you make agreements? That is sometimes the shortest way, I think, when it comes to concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u255	Sure, and we've had our differences of opinion. The PvdA does not always do what I want and vice versa, although Mr Samsom would like to do so. It doesn't always work and so you're in the middle of a political exchange of views. I would like to state what I think on behalf of the VVD Group. I think this is a wrong development. I have already noted that there is a majority in favour. I think that this majority of all those parties should start thinking about whether it is sensible for the future. That is what I am talking about here. You usually belong to that majority, too. So I also say to you: stand up for the farmers, stand up for the gardeners and stand up for the good standards, but do not exaggerate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u256	Mr Zijlstra is starting to shine, because indeed: this is what the VVD thinks, but the VVD has the opportunity to make agreements with the coalition partners, in government agreements and so on. In that respect, he hears from time to time checking it out. Are there any other issues on his list of issues that concern him, because of the majorities that have arisen in the Chamber or perhaps also because of the fact that the majority of this coalition is very fragile in this Chamber? We've been through it the past few weeks. Last week there was a little debate about refugees. Floep, suddenly one of the MPs of the coalition disappeared. A few weeks ago, it was about Greece. Floep, suddenly one of them disappeared from the VVD. By the way, you were completely gone during that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u257	Well, I was in the back, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u258	Your question, Mr Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u259	Are you still concerned about other issues? It's always nice to share that with each other. Then we can be a little empathetic. Perhaps we can make a contribution once in a while to help a subject a little bit further. So go ahead, as far as I'm concerned!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u260	I do have a few, yes, but I am not going to mention them all here, otherwise I am going through my speaking time and that does not seem to me to make much sense. It seems to me that political parties stand in this house for the opinions they have and express. I'm trying to get the majorities who seem to find something else to think about. Is what you do too often, in my opinion, sensible? The fact that you're doing it is democracy. That is up to you, but I say very clearly to you, Mr Slob, and to other parties that the VVD considers it very unwise that we are making life very difficult for our farmers and horticulturalists, with the result that we will be worse off in terms of animal welfare, worse off in terms of the environment and worse off in terms of sustainability.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u261	I suggest that you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got a little time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u263	Yeah, you got time, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u264	People and companies are capable of much, as long as politics doesn't get in their way too much. We are a small country, but we are a country with great, almost unlimited possibilities. I'd like to keep it that way. I would like to hear from the cabinet that Mr Slob is being served, how he thinks he can control and cut back the flow of regulations in recent years. Technological developments and innovation offer many opportunities, but they also bring with them many changes and thus uncertainties. This leads to many questions and Dutch people expect us to have answers from politics. Is there gonna be work for my son or daughter later? Good, that progress, but does the arrival of the robot, the 3D printer or the quantum computer mean that a lot of jobs are about to disappear? Are these changes only good for highly educated people or are there others who benefit? Those are legitimate questions. As politicians, we have to answer that. When we look at history, we see that there is every reason to be optimistic about technological progress, to be optimistic about the great opportunities the future holds for our country. Take the robot. Some politicians are just as afraid of that as people were before for the steam engine or the computer. They fear progress. They say the robot makes people redundant, but there is no reason to fear the robot, quite the contrary. With the advent of new technologies, jobs are always disappearing. That is true, but there are always new jobs, often more enjoyable and better paid jobs. Due to the arrival of the steam train, coachmen and horse carers lost their jobs, but distances got smaller and our world got bigger. New and better jobs were created: the engineer, the conductor, the train builder, the steel worker, the logistics planner. That's still how it works. Ten years ago, the app builder's profession didn't exist. At the moment there are thousands of people in this country who have it as a job. Despite this, many people are uneasy about such developments. That is why we, as politicians, should not feed this unrest, but rather give people the confidence that we will all benefit from technological progress. All Dutch will benefit. It's really not the case that a high-tech company like ASML works only study balls. There are also facility employees, secretaries, caterers, cleaners, security guards. They also need the microprocessor to pay their rent or their mortgage. Thanks to the prosperity and jobs that companies like ASML provide, we can pay for our health care, our safety, our social services and our roads. What applies to ASML also applies to companies that make robots, for example. They also provide work for low-, middle- and high-skilled workers. They, too, create the prosperity with which we can pay the social benefits for all Dutch people. So there is no need to fear progress. On the contrary, we must ensure that our children learn to make robots themselves, so that the companies they are about to build are in the Netherlands. We have that task as a political one. Not to be afraid of these kinds of developments, but to respond to them and benefit from them. This requires adjustments to our education and our labour market. Our labour market is still too rigid and insufficiently geared to jobs for the future. The Work and Security Act has not solved this either. There are still fundamental problems in our labour market. Take an older teacher in higher education. He gets the same salary as a younger colleague, but has to work 20% less. It sounds nice to have a job like this, but what if you don't have a job like that and want to work as a teacher in higher education as a 60-year-old? No sane person will expect an employer to hire you if you're so much more expensive than that younger teacher. So that beautiful arrangement, which is meant to protect people, rules out the very same people. Everyone understands this and our politicians have a responsibility to do something about it. There is more and more work, but there are fewer and fewer permanent jobs. Employers are looking forward to offering someone a permanent contract. After all, you sign for many obligations and many risks. More and more Dutch people therefore decide to exist as a zzp'er. In the meantime, one tenth of our prosperity is due to them. We must nurture that. As a liberal, I love it when someone goes to work at their own risk and expense. Our prosperity is built on such an entrepreneurial spirit. But I also think that the permanent job should be made more attractive again. After all, not everyone wants to opt for entrepreneurship. There are plenty of people who prefer to work as an employed person. The VVD wants people to be able to make a free choice. That free choice is under pressure. Because why are there fewer permanent jobs than you would expect and wish for? That's because we've been outspoken in transferring all possible risks and burdens on employers. The burdens and risks attached to hiring someone on a permanent basis have become so great that employers think three times before hiring someone. The balance between the rights of an employee and the costs incurred by the employer is lost. That balance will have to be restored.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u265	Interesting. After "own tomato first" and "robots are cool," those were things I could do less with now, the idea to tackle the rigid industrial relations. I feel like we're negotiating back a little bit about what the cabinet was doing. We have limited the WW to two years and now the FNV advocates that the UWV will take care of the third year again. That is coming back to legislation, plus a major problem that is exactly what Mr Zijlstra is analysing: putting an employee into permanent employment is becoming unattractive and the pay gap is being reduced again. After this beautiful analysis, what are we going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u266	We would like to restore that balance. We want people to have the choice of a permanent job. We should not do that by fighting flexwork orzzp'ers. We must restore balance by balancing workers' rights on the one hand and employers' obligations and risks on the other. For example, you can look at whether you should cut the employer's contribution. Shouldn't we limit long-term payments in case of illness? Should we make collective agreements containing all kinds of super-statutory obligations generally binding? Those are the things we're talking about. The VVD would love to walk that route. I understand that Mr Pechtold wants that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u267	I'm standing in front of a candy closet. I'd say, which one are we gonna get?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u268	Yeah, it's all good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u269	It's okay, the VVD says. That's fantastic! We will now be the first to ensure that we do not negotiate back what we have agreed with the cabinet on the social agreement: we will leave the third year of WW to the individual negotiators. That's one. Then there's room in the pay and we make it easier for employers to hire people. We're gonna take that threshold down. Deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u270	I think we agreed on two years and no public provision. As far as I'm concerned, it stays that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u271	Fine. It's beautiful. Now the next one. I hear all these wonderful things coming along. You used to have Willem Ruis. Then all those sticks fell and you thought, "Which one should I grab?" Which things are we going to put together in legislation? I think that's important. We have a year and a half left with this cabinet. I see them pulling away from the PvdA a little white. Fortunately, the Minister for Social Affairs still has a fluffy tie on which it emits a little, but in your speech I saw him turn white for a while. What bill are we going to file? That generally binding collective agreement? Are we gonna do that for this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u272	I don't know. This is the route the VVD wants to run and this is her opinion on what is wise. The question is whether she will get a majority for that. It is not in the coalition agreement and not in the social agreement. This is the step that should be taken in the opinion of the VVD, just as it has sometimes had plans in the past, and it took some time before they were finally provided with a majority. We're gonna do this. It is very good that D66 wants to participate, but we do not yet have a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u273	All crazy on a stick... that's another cliché, by the way. I used too many. I don't have to say "two and one" anymore. Clip-and-ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u274	Butter with the fish!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u275	You can think of more.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u276	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u277	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u278	This is a bomb under the cabinet if this is a serious plan for the next year and a half. This is a real bomb under the cabinet. My question is very specific: is this serious, are we really going to talk about it or is this PvdA bullying?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u279	I don't see why this is a bomb under the cabinet. Six months ago, we presented a plan that, according to many, was also a bomb under the cabinet. Now that's cabinet policy. I'm not sure we can do that here, too. I know that Mr Pechtold's party is not so, but the VVD has an opinion on a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u280	The VVD is very keen to get certain things done. That starts with the alignment of that. Then we'll take the next steps. If that is, in this cabinet period or in another one, it will have to prove. I think it is clear what we stand for and what movement we would like to make with regard to the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u281	Then it's a diversion to the problems in the justice system and all the other things. Mr Zijlstra proposes a motion for a resolution. It is a good thing for people to let that work on their own for a while, where older workers are going to earn less. That was the teacher's example. Mr Zijlstra said he was going to deal with collective agreements. He says things about the WW duration. He's talking about a lot of things that I'm okay with looking at in a coherent and responsible way in a modern labour market. However, the PvdA does not agree with you on all this. But why don't we do thosezzp'ers now? We should have that bill by now. Why don't we take that pension? We should have that proposal by now. Mr Zijlstra quite rightly says that the VVD has an opinion. But you don't just have to have an opinion as a government party, you have to do the things you agree on, too. Where's that bill from thezzp'ers? Where's the pension bill? Mr Zijlstra should not only scare the coalition partner. He's just gonna have to deliver what's agreed for this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u282	If you join a coalition and you would have to turn in each of your own ideas and form of opinion, then no party will ever begin to do so again. That's not the point. There's something else I said about emotion. I was concerned about the situation where someone is going to work 20% less and earn the same thing. By the way, I'll give it back right away, you can also talk about it. You have to look at the blocking issues in the labour market. I have listed a whole row of them. However, you should not be organizing all kinds of collective arrangements forzzp'ers, and that seems to be what Mr Pechtold is proposing. If you start drawing up pension schemes and disability schemes forzzp'ers, they will no longer be azzp'er. You need to restore balance on the labour market. We see a problem there and we have an opinion on it. I believe that the cabinet may not be able to reach an agreement on this right away, because there is indeed a difference of opinion between the two coalition parties. That is no surprise, as Mr Pechtold knew when he walked to the microphone, but that does not relieve neither the VVD nor other parties of the duty to think about what we can do about this rigid labour market to ensure that our economy is ready for the future and that the people who do not now have a job will soon have a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u283	I must point out to Mr Zijlstra that the VVD comes with many proposals. Many of them are a race to the bottom and that doesn't make me very happy, but Mr Zijlstra also said some interesting things. This does not happen very often, and if we have a chance now, let us seize it. If I have understood correctly, Mr Zijlstra believes that more people should be able to benefit from permanent employment. This means, for example, that you have to make flex more expensive than fixed or probably cheaper than flex, because employers are not crazy. They see if they have a job, and if they do, they choose flex. If you can just keep flexing and it's cheaper, I can't blame the employer. Is the VVD willing to arrange it with us so that if there is real work because flex is for the flexible skin, for sick and peak, and nothing else must be cheaper than flex?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u284	Flex is not only for the flexible shell. There are also many people who want to have the freedom to work as a zzp'er. I don't want to take that choice away from them. However, I also want people to be able to choose a permanent job. That's exactly what I said. That's where I see trouble. Employers aren't getting into it right now. At the moment, virtually no one is employed in a permanent job. This has to do with the considerable obligations and risks involved in a permanent job for an employer. That's a problem you have to do something about. I already told you not to choose another route. You can make flex andzzp's so unattractive that no one does that anymore, but then you still have a labour market that doesn't work properly. We must do something about these fixed contracts to make it more attractive for employers to employ people on a permanent basis. I can tell many employers that they want to do this fine, they like to hire people on a permanent basis, but they say that they are not getting into it now because the risks are too great. That is a problem and if it is up to the VVD, we are going to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u285	True good entrepreneurs do; they hire people directly into permanent employment because they want to invest in each other. They know that if you give something, you'll get something back. They know that if you invest in people, it's wasted money if they've left after a year and a half. The real entrepreneurs know that you have to invest in people and they want to go to permanent work. However, I was talking about managers who want to produce profits in the short term. We are not talking about the free birds of those entrepreneurs, but about those who are exploited, who have to compete on terms of employment, who work on average 15 or 16 hours a week for a wage that they can never live on.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u286	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u287	If Mr Zijlstra really wants more entrepreneurs to employ people on a permanent basis when they have a job to do, there is only one solution: to make flex cheaper so that people are not exploited and protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u288	That's exactly what needs to be done. How do you do that? You do this by balancing the risks and obligations of employers, because they are now very large, and thus the costs. Get a hairdresser with two staff. If he's affected by long-term sickness payments, he's bankrupt. End of exercise! And that's why he's not taking that risk. We must do something about these matters, and I understand that Mr Roemer wants us to do so. That's profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u289	Let me get this right. This was in our plan Hart for the case four or five years ago. This plan contained 40 concrete measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. I have heard Mr Zijlstra here four years in a row about paying the sick staff of a small entrepreneur, but there has never been any proposal. If the SP Group comes forward tomorrow with a proposal to do something about this, I will finally get the support of the VVD instead of four years of shouting without coming up with a proposal. The VVD has been calling this for four years, but this year it is not in the budget either.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u290	No, you need a majority for that. On some points, we agree with the SP on the payment of payments; I think I remember that this does not apply to all the details of the SP plan. We agree with other parties on other points. However, you should not do ad hoc things for the labour market: one thing is, but other things are not. There is a imbalance and we need to tackle it widely. If we do that, we will come up with measures of this kind. However, they should not be taken standalone. We have many things to do to solve this problem. Just picking up this point helps, but that doesn't solve it. That's the plea I'm holding here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u291	It's not the one point. Small and medium-sized enterprises have been hit in the last few years, after a blow. They had to come from the SP Group: 40 concrete proposals for small and medium-sized enterprises to be launched together with SMEs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u292	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u293	Of all these proposals, none of them have come back to the budget. Four years in a row, the VVD has been calling this. All she has done is shout and do nothing, increase VAT and, above all, increase the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. Not only did she abandon police officers and the Public Prosecutor's Office, the VVD also abandoned small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u294	No, because we have made sure that the economy is attracted. That's what got these companies back in business. As a result, there is another perspective for them. That is what cabinet policy brings with it. If Mr Roemer is prepared to deal with the complex problem of the stuck labour market and the fact that people with fixed contracts are too expensive, he will find an ally in us. I do not know if the solutions will be exactly the same, but that is exactly the problem that we need to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u295	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u296	Fixed contracts are too expensive for the employer and therefore people are not hired.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u297	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u298	This balance must be restored, because it makes the fixed contract attractive. This will give young people, re-enterers, unemployed elderly people and all those who are still fishing behind the grid opportunities again. We can thus give people the assurance that if they lose their jobs, they can easily find a new job again. People expect the politics to give that new certainty, certainties that are more useful to you than to the current fake security. If your company gets into trouble, I'm afraid dismissal is inevitable. In that case, the certainty of a permanent job appears to have been apparent. What is certain, however, is that it will be very difficult to find a new permanent job. If we want to give more people a chance of a permanent contract, we will have to adapt the permanent contract to the 21st century. The changes needed in the labour market also require a change in our education. Our education is good, but it can be even better. Everyone sees that and politics is expected to do something about it. In a rapidly changing world, we must be able to count on the government to make lifelong learning as easy as possible. Every Dutchman must be given the opportunity to be trained and retrained faster and more often and to learn new skills. That sounds newer and more elitist than it is, for in fact this is of all times and of all ranks and positions. For example, a mechanic who started working 30 years ago had to be able to weld properly. Later he also had to learn how to deal with ICT and can program. Today he or she must be able to deal with new materials in an electric car. Maybe he doesn't even realize it himself, but he's learning for a lifetime. We all have the ability to learn new things, for our work or pure pleasure, whether we are children or retired, whether we are highly or low-educated. Our education must help to make that learning possible even more than it is today. It needs to be better across the board. Education is a tough cookie, with many vested interests, and groups that reject almost any change. But the shore turns the ship: if education doesn't move, society will find other channels. We are already seeing companies that organise and finance internal training, because they are dissatisfied with existing training. This is a clear signal that politics and education must take on board. As far as the VVD is concerned, we should no longer finance education on the basis of the rather arbitrary provision of training. It is time to put the demand for training at the centre: the question of students and the question of their future employers. Isn't it ridiculous that there are large numbers of job seekers and at the same time there is a screaming shortage of staff in many sectors? We need training that educates our young people into a job, not a benefit. There are positive signals, such as TU Delft, which received more applications this year than they have places. But we're far from there. According to recent figures, HBO accounts for almost half of freshmen in a field of study for which job expectations are unfavourable. According to that report, studies such as applied psychology and cultural and social education have too many students, and technical studies too few. It can't go on like this. Our education needs to be more consistent with what society is asking for and what future employers are asking for. Politics must give confidence that we are actually going to take care of this. Better education also requires something from the people in front of the classroom. That, too, is a matter. It is an open door, but everything stands or falls with the quality of the teachers. That quality needs to be improved. We need teachers who can get the best out of our children so that they can develop and get a good job later. Parents and children, but also teachers' organizations have been asking for this for a long time. It is up to us politicians to finally settle that. This brings me to the next question to the cabinet: what is the situation with the professional register, is that finally going to happen? Politics will have to do more to ensure that parents have the confidence that children can actually develop. In addition to the necessary knowledge, we must also strengthen the bildung. That beautiful German word stands for personal education and general skills. We need to strengthen our ability to step outside the beaten paths, so that we can cope with any change and make new discoveries over and over again. We also need to step up our efforts to learn entrepreneurial skills. As far as I'm concerned, that's already in elementary school, because young learners are old-fashioned. We need new entrepreneurs and new start-ups. They are the source of our prosperity. Children, parents, employers, but also teachers themselves want to know where they stand. They want to know if we're politically capable of dealing with that. As far as the VVD goes, we're gonna pick up that glove.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u299	This is a very recognizable plea from the VVD, in order to make education more compatible with the labour market. But I also heard about bildung. Doesn't bildung mean that there should also be small courses at universities, even though perhaps not so many people study there? Courses such as astronomy, that one course Portuguese, Swedish or Finnish, or an old language. Knowledge has an intrinsic value, a value of itself. We must preserve it for our society. Surely we cannot organise the whole of education so efficiently that there is always a connection to the labour market? Bildung also means that we must enrich ourselves with knowledge, because that ultimately helps society as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u300	I think Mr Klaver is making an incorrect connection. Bildung means that you not only teach people a few techniques, but that you also teach them how to handle changes and general information. This is different from keeping a Portuguese study with a few students in the Netherlands. There is a great place within Europe where you can study Portuguese very well: Portugal. In this global world there is no need to offer all such small courses in the Netherlands. You can be better efficient and go for education that meets the needs of society and also of students. That kind of business has nothing to do with bildung.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u301	It's got everything to do with it. When we talk about bildung, it's about the broad development of individuals, that the tech knows not only something about technique, but also about philosophy and history or other subjects. It's also about the question of what academic climate you want. What climate do you want as a country? That's why you should also leave room for subjects that may not be so popular at the moment and for which only a few students are, because there is knowledge available at such a faculty that is important to our society. We may not be able to quantify them and this may not contribute to economic growth. You can say, "Why don't you go to Portugal?" But there is knowledge that we must preserve for generations to come after us. That's what bildung is all about in the end. That's not an individual thing. It says everything about your country's culture. It says everything about the value we attach to knowledge, even if it does not directly contribute to our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u302	You see that knowledge leads to reinforcement, to synergy when you bring people, students, scientists together and cluster in that area, so that the strengths of everyone there come true. When Albert Einstein was in Leiden, it was because the top of the world was there; he drew towards each other. That's what you should try to organize at different universities. We try too often, fortunately, there has been a counter-movement that we must further encourage to offer the same thing everywhere. We need universities, colleges and educational institutions to focus more on the things they are good at. They shouldn't try to keep doing all kinds of things besides that. That has nothing to do with the climate in the country, because if one university doesn't, it doesn't mean the other university doesn't. Probably does it, but a little better. But if you do everything halfway, you're not doing anything completely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u303	What it was about, and all the protests in the Maagdenhuis have been about, is that studies in the Netherlands are in danger of disappearing which are unique of their kind, which are not given at four or five other universities. These are unique studies, where there is unique knowledge. Precisely when you argue for bildung, you should argue that we do not try to organize and cluster everything in education over efficiently. There are indeed advantages to that. It is also good that there is movement in that direction, but you must leave room for differences and for diversity in the academic world.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u304	Bildung has nothing to do with the fact that they are small schools. Bildung has to do with integrating general skills, general knowledge and a general way of dealing with change into existing courses. Maintaining certain small training courses in a country has nothing to do with it. GroenLinks always presents itself as an international party. If you take the example that Mr. Klaver himself uses, of a Portuguese study, one should ask oneself in an international world: is it efficient, is it sensible, is it good to keep such an education at all costs, when there are perhaps four or five students? Or better to say that the university should focus on those subjects, those areas that it is very good at and should excel in, in which it should be part of the world's top. Should we not ask those students who we always encourage to study abroad to do so in this case? Then they'll probably get a better education, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u305	Probably not efficient. Probably it is not at all efficient to keep an education open here that may only be followed by three people. It is probably better to go to Portugal or to any country, but we keep this education open because we like it, because we think it is right and because we think that diversity is part of academic culture. In the end, this leads to overlap and cross-pollination at universities. So it may not be efficient, but it is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u306	That cross-pollination is and remains there, because the amount of training and studies is and remains enormous. But we're out of control. We've got too many. In my opinion, my old study of commercial economy now consists of sixteen sub-studies. That's all way too narrow. We must try to broaden and ensure that things fit better. We need to make sure that people take a broader view and that this fits in with what employers want. That is good for education and it is good for the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a great country. When I look around, I see a safe and prosperous country, a country with a tradition of coming out together when it gets difficult. I see a free country where I live with pleasure and where I can be myself. We didn't get the Netherlands as a gift. Our country is built on sober Dutch values. Think of contributing in an honest way, pulling up your sleeves and putting your shoulders under it when it's against, taking care of yourself but also caring about another, treating another as you want to be treated yourself and not whimpering against the wind but kicking harder. I went into politics to stand up for those values, to make sure that this Netherlands is there when my son grows up. I am fighting for a society in which the government is an ally of the Dutch who live for these values. That's a big majority. This large majority of Dutch people expect us politicians to solve problems that arise, not to get in their way, to see developments coming and prepare for them. We see a lot coming at us. I have already indicated: the increasing insecurity in the world, the increasing flow of migrants and the rapid technological progress. These are challenges that we, as politicians, must tackle together. In doing so, we must not continue to think in existing structures. We must dare to think and act out of the box. In doing so, we must show realism and not lose ourselves in worn-out principles. We must not give up, but dare to tackle it, just as we have done in recent years, when we worked together with both the coalition and the opposition parties to deal with the economic crisis. I believe that we will also be able to meet the great challenges of our time. I believe that we are able to join forces so that Dutch people know where they stand. The Dutch electorate may have the confidence that politics is capable of doing so. It's up to us to prove that trust is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u307	I've waited all the way to the end. I thought: now it's coming, Mr Zijlstra is going to deal with climate change. There's been a climate statement. What does Mr Zijlstra want the cabinet to do extra to ensure that the cabinet adheres to that statement, and does he agree that we should do everything possible to reduce CO emissions by 25% by 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u308	I think it is right that the cabinet has appealed. It is also a good thing that the cabinet is examining what measures may be possible, but I think it is particularly sensible that the cabinet should have appealed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u309	It's actually really weird. The cabinet advisor on environmental issues, the PBL, says that you should actually start this year, if you want to make sure that you can still reduce those CO emissions. What does the cabinet say next? We want some kind of second opinion, let's have our own officials look at it again. That is as if the Minister of Finance would say if the CPB says that the budget deficit is above 3%: well, I'm not sure, let me recalculate it. That's weird. I wonder why the CPB is being taken so seriously, but not another planning agency, namely the PBL, which shows that this time it may not so much dissipate the economy as it does global warming. Why does Mr Zijlstra measure with double standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u310	Since the trial is still going on, I'd like to stay out of it a little bit, but I'm going to give a political explanation anyway. Mr Klaver has just had an interrupting debate with Mr Roemer on coal taxation. That is what GroenLinks proposes in its counter-budget, but those kinds of proposals are not solutions. The solution is that we are going to do something about CO emissions, but then we must also have the courage to fundamentally review our policies, at European level and if possible at global level. Then we have to go to a CO system that puts the tax where it works. Now it's getting a little technical, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u311	That's out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u312	That is not out of the question, because this is what this is about. This works with best available technology for certain sectors. If you do better, through innovation, you get CO rights. If you do worse, you have to pay. Then you stimulate innovation, you price CO emissions, but that also means something else. Then you also have to stop with all the funding flows that we have at the moment. The subsidies that we now have make CO cheaper and that despite an energy agreement we are now faced with more CO emissions and more coal use than there was. This is due to policy as proposed by Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u313	However, Mr Klaver's question was about the PBL and I did not hear you in your reply about the Planning Office for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u314	That was the first part of my answer, namely that the Planning Bureau is ruling on a lawsuit and I want to stay out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u315	The planning agency doesn't rule on the trial, but it shows you how to get that 25% and that if you postpone it for a year, nothing happens. But let's get back to the 25% case. Mr Zijlstra is right to say that we need to do this internationally. So we'll find each other soon. But was it not in 1992 that we have already agreed on this and that the Netherlands has committed itself to all kinds of international conventions in order to achieve this objective of reducing CO emissions? Isn't that why the judge concluded that the government has to make an extra effort? Mr Zijlstra, the point is that we have agreed internationally to reduce CO emissions. A solution to getting there is a coal tax and the closure of coal plants. If we are not prepared to do so, then we are not prepared to make our contribution to what you so badly want, namely an international agreement. Then why don't you want to keep that appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u316	This is a question that has actually been answered a moment ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u317	I'd like to keep those appointments perfectly. Only, I believe that the direction proposed by Mr Klaver and sometimes referred to by others is not the right one. If you keep going in that direction, you're putting the horse behind the cart. So you're not putting CO at the center, but then you're with all kinds of subsidy streams with bans and everything and creating a totally opaque system that doesn't work. Let us create a system that works, that is simple and that places trust with the people who have to do it; that is the people in the country and the companies that have to innovate. As a government, we are not going to solve this, other than setting a standard and maintaining it. But all these subsidy flows or shutting down certain things: stop me, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u318	Fantastic, let's stop the subsidy flows. Ensure that the energy tax is simply aligned for large consumers and small consumers. $5 billion goes into that. That's a subsidy to the fossil industry. We agree on this very quickly, but in the end it comes down to the question: what are you, as the Netherlands, willing to take action on it? If you shut down coal power plants...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u319	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u320	...we can save 20 megatons of CO. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u321	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u322	Mr President, my goodness, we are in the General Political Reviews. Surely you do not have to say "thank you" after every sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u323	And then you shut down those coal power stations. Then where does the electricity come from? 'Cause there's no easy way to find him. So we're gonna set up a nuclear power plant? The VVD lets me. In fact, the fact that these coal plants are located on the Maasvlakte is due to the fact that there was no support for a CO-neutral nuclear power plant at the time. So you have to make choices. However, you cannot say: we are going to close a large part of the power supply in this country, which is coal power plants, and then ask you what to do. Do you have to turn off the fridge or the light?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u324	I give you the opportunity to ask another final question, and I ask Mr Zijlstra to be very limited in his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u325	I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u326	Coal plants are 18% responsible for the supply of electricity to the Netherlands. We have an overproduction in the Netherlands. We can run gas power plants; there are all kinds of options that are needed for the transition phase. In the end, we need to move towards a sustainable energy supply for solar energy and wind energy. There is a phase in this, but let us not pretend that we should now suddenly use all kinds of other power supplies. In the Netherlands there is overcapacity and we should use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u327	Mr Klaver knows damn well that if we closed the coal plants in the Netherlands now, we would not have enough energy. That's just a fact. We need to do something about CO emissions. We quickly agree on this, but this is not the route. In China, a coal power plant is opened every week. That's the same environment, even if it's another country. We have to do something about the CO problem, but in a different way. We really do not solve the problem by closing a coal power station in the Netherlands alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-16-tweedekamer-4.u328	I suggest we have lunch. Then we start with a scheme of work, for which the necessary requests have been notified.
