ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Solving serious and complicated crimes is getting in the way. The specialists of the NFI, the Dutch Forensic Institute, and also other independent experts, indicate that this is due to the cuts made by this minister. Each year about 5,000 non-natural deaths occur. The number of autopsies and sections is only around 300. That means there's a big gap in the explanation of these deaths. Survivors are forced to settle for a declaration of suicide and accident, which may not be the case. In such a case, unsubs can also go free. Does the Minister see the seriousness of this? In other EU countries, a judicial section is by default carried out in case of suicide and fatal road accidents, but there is no money for this in the Netherlands. I would like a response from the Minister to the lessons that we can draw from abroad. The CDA has regularly warned the Minister about the negative consequences that are now arising. Yesterday, the forensic pathologist Frank van de Goot at RTL openly called the alarm clock about the cuts at the NFI. He himself reviewed 62 cases and in 50% of the cases it appeared that the causes of death were wrong. With the NFI, 77 full-time jobs continue to be lost due to the cuts. Private institutions take over part of the work, but cannot actually cope with the need for it. Mr Van de Goot said yesterday: as long as you do not look at it, you cannot say that nothing is going on. There's gonna be another hearing on the consequences of the NFI. It's been requested by the CDA and the SP to clarify. Today, however, we must be clear. The NFI works council has not been given that clarity. The works council says that there is a negative impact on the quality of the investigation and prosecution. What is the Minister's response to that? Today, a letter from the Minister with answers to questions from colleague Van Nispen on the reduction of the budget at the NFI. Expenditure should be reduced to 60 million in 2018. We find this incomprehensible, given the seriousness of this type of thing that ends up in the NFI. Does the Minister share the view that the additional investigation and prosecution of possible jihad fighters calls for a strong NFI and is he also aware that many other possible crimes cannot be investigated? Is the Minister prepared to stop further cuts in the NFI?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Oskam for his questions. We have taken note of Mr Van de Goot's intervention in RTL Late Night. He's got a report. I do not know that report, but I will take note of it. Then I can judge the facts. I don't have an overview of the judicial sections abroad. It's different here and there, that's right. The fourth question concerned the tasks of the NFI. The multiannual tasks of the NFI shall be defined in a outline plan and shall be the subject of consultations. I've taken note of that. This morning I wrote a letter to the Chamber about the AA being held next Thursday. At its core, the robustness of the implementation of the tasks of the NFI is ensured. There are a number of efficiency measures that are realistic and feasible, 17 departments are reduced to five divisions and there are good consultations with the unions, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, I do not have any concerns about the tasks. The last question was about extra detection within the tasks we carry out. Also tasks to address the jihad and the other tasks of the agenda of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police can be carried out within the budget of the NFI, I am assured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u3	That's a very technical story that's actually not an answer. I asked the Minister this. In the Netherlands, 5,000 cases of non-natural deaths have been recorded. That means there's something wrong with that. Only 300 cases are investigated. So the other 4,700 families have to guess the cause of death and assume it's true what the police say. I want to get an answer from the Minister, and I want to continue looking for the cause. Is there any undercapacity? In the budget, we asked how many pathologist-anatomists there are. That was five, plus two independent and one in training. Does it have anything to do with that? Does it have to do with a lack of money or does it have to do with a lack of priority? Don't we think it's important to get to the bottom of things like this? I would also point out that not only does Mr Van de Goot say something about it, but also that the NFI works council has sounded the alarm clock. I think the Minister should take that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u4	The M.E. Directive, which is being implemented, has been drawn up by all the departments. Exceptionally, this may not be considered necessary. All the departments say they do it this way. It is no longer the case that an autopsy should always take place in the event of euthanasia or an accident, for example. It's a well-known fact. There must be a causal link between a possible crime and the cause of death. Furthermore, we have the modern techniques, such as the CT scan and the MRI scan, which mean that an autopsy is not always necessary. I am aware that the capacity, as Mr Oskam says, consists of five pathologist anatomists, one coming with signature powers, and two outside where Mr Van de Goot is one of them. That's enough capacity. There is therefore no accounting reason why the number is not increased: there is simply sufficient capacity. I shall, of course, examine Mr Van de Goot's report. After all, he's an authoritative person. I am prepared to inform the Chamber for the AA in March of the report after I have taken note of it. I will also orientate myself internationally and look at how the division of labour is in other countries and compare it with the Dutch situation and the NFI.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister for the answers. I've been a state's attorney and have regularly ordered sections in that capacity. It's also about the quality of the cause of death investigation. First, the M.E.'s gonna need it. The district attorney decides on the advice of the M.E. and the police, but this goes wrong in many cases according to Van de Goot. The question is, of course, whether we are still in safe hands with this system. What are we going to do to improve the quality of the sections and the sights?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u6	I said what I said. I will look at the report mentioned above. I think that is important, because Mr Van de Goot is an authoritative person. Before I send the answers to the Chamber, I will consult with my colleague from VWS. Something has also been said about this by Mr Van de Goot.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u7	Soon we will be discussing the NFI and the budget cuts in detail in the Chamber. At the moment, one question is relevant to me: are all matters put forward by the police and the justice department in the NFI or other sectional institutions being carried out? Can the NFI or any other institution say to the police or to the Justice Department: you think section is necessary, but we do not do it because of lack of capacity. If that is the case, we have a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u8	The answer to Mr Recourt's key question is yes. Those investigations are being carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u9	Are we dealing with a minister who wants all these crimes to be resolved? We know that there are too few coroners, while the coroners are not sufficiently trained to expose crimes. It is a public task to determine whether there is a natural death or whether there may be a criminal offence. In the meantime we also know how the cuts at the Dutch Forensic Institute, the Dutch CSI, work out. The police must do more themselves, management is spared and certain expertise is completely reduced. Then how can the Minister say that the NFI is investigating everything that needs to be investigated? Is the Minister responsible for the quality and integrity of a careful investigation? Are we going to solve crimes and crimes? That's what the minister stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u10	The answer to Mr Van Nispen's question is yes. That's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-10-tweedekamer-3.u11	I thank the Minister for his reply. I have noted the commitment that he will come before the AA in early March with a response to the report of the pathologist-anatomy Frank van de Goot and with an international comparison.
