ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. I inform him that the language used here is Dutch and I am happy to give the floor first to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. It burns in Greece, but it also makes sense to just deal with the Spring note today, because there are again the necessary things going on in our beautiful Netherlands. In the context of the Spring paper, I would like to talk about safety, VAT in construction, childcare and rents. I'll start with safety. "There's no room anymore." "The thumbscrews have been turned so far." "The rack's out." "New cuts are irresponsible." That is what we heard MPs and leaders of the coalition parties say in February about further cuts in Security and Justice. That seemed clear to me. It is clear that my group agrees with that. If we look at the supplementary budget, we are therefore surprised that we are once again talking about a new reduction in safety of 30 million next year and 60 million structuralally. We're a little upset about that, too. The boundaries have really been reached. Everything really is under enormous pressure at Security and Justice. Earlier it was stated that the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and the prison system needed space. What's the point of a new austerity? We find that incomprehensible. In the area of security and justice, money must be sought to give more air to the most deprived parts of the ministry. That is why we must be able to move within the budgets, but this cannot be done if the possibilities are to be taken away. It's just that a ministry has something to do with a bump in the face. You can't pick out the currants by taking windfalls this time being that the lower rental rates of the state real estate are called upon to claim but completely. That is simply a reduction in safety. We find this incomprehensible and unacceptable at a time when security should be prominently on the agenda. We're asking the Cabinet to reverse this. If necessary, we shall table a motion to that effect. My next point is the VAT in construction. Last Wednesday there was an important ruling by the court in The Hague, which stated that CO emissions should be reduced by a quarter. Is the government going to challenge this, or is it really going to do less CO emissions and a sustainable energy policy? How's the cabinet gonna handle that? It's gonna have to work hard with that. In this context, is it not appropriate, for example, to encourage housing isolation? That is an investment that we know will pay itself double and cross. In this context, we ask the cabinet to consider maintaining the low VAT rate for construction for a longer period of time. There will have been a temporary revival and the construction will have been attracted for a while, because the scheme will stop. But as of tomorrow, the arrangement will cease to apply and the situation will be in danger of falling apart again. If the Minister is not prepared to extend, I would like to know why. I cannot say that a measure has been extended a few times. You're always looking again and again at whether you think a measure is necessary, aren't you? It should not be a question of whether the scheme has already been extended. I would not be surprised if we saw another setback in the VAT revenue later this year, due to a fall in construction work. Are the VAT receipts from construction separately tracked? If the Minister insists on abolishing the low VAT, is he prepared to evaluate the impact of this abolition? In childcare, we see a heavy under-utilisation of over 300 million. The impact of the cuts in childcare seems to be greater than previously thought. That's what the Central Planning Bureau has established before. What was the Minister's response to this observation? According to him, the cuts seem to cut harder and people are withdrawing from the labour market. This issue has already been addressed in the debate on accountability. There are two more motions that Mr Grashoff and Mr Koolmees have tabled. At that time it was said to belong in today's debate and the Prime Minister referred us to today's debate. I am curious to see what the Minister is doing with the effects of austerity policy. Is he prepared to spend the money that has remained or remains behind by under-spending on childcare? Answering the written questions shows that the high estimate adjustment to the Spring Note is mainly due to a sharp decline in use in 2014 among lower income groups. What conclusion does the Minister draw from this? Is that a desirable development? In the case of the rent payment, there is a setback in the budget. Does the Minister have any explanation for the increased applications? In the written reply he mentions the consequences of the economic crisis as a cause. Can he explain what he means by that? Thanks to the internationally attracting economy, all economic indicators have been green for some time. Which tenants are we talking about? Does it have to do with the purchasing power of the tenants? Maybe it's because they have to pay more and more for the rent? The deficit for the 2014 rental fee should be covered within the rental fee according to the Minister. In short, it is removed from the tenants themselves. Isn't that crazy? If there is under-utilisation in childcare due to under-use, it does not go back to the parents who do use childcare. With the rentals there are more requests than expected. Then it would be consistent to do the mirror image, and so money should be added. Is it not also strange that the mortgage interest deduction is an open-ended scheme and not the rent payment? In this context, the Minister says that the design of a possible redirection is still being considered. When will we be able to clarify this? It's nice for the tenants to know what they're up to. Moreover, the Minister is talking about a possible reversal. Does the word "maybe" mean that the tenants will be spared this time? If one opts for an increase in one's own contribution, this will once again affect the most vulnerable. In the general purchasing power figures you do not see it because the tenants are not included as a separate group, but the answers to the supplementary budget Living and Rijksdienst show that this is an amount of €230 per year. For some, that's a big amount of money. Tenants have already seen rents rise by 10% in two years. What can the cabinet do for the tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. The Spring paper is the first state of implementation of the 2015 budget. When I was preparing this debate, I went back to what was going on in this Chamber when the budget was being discussed during the financial deliberations. I myself compared Greece and the Netherlands. Maybe the Minister remembers that. I described how I already saw in the nineties how on my beloved holiday island the local catering entrepreneurs and souvenir shopkeepers paid a boy who was in the port watching if the tax police happened to get off the ferry. Then he called the power company to shut down the power quickly. That was for everyone on the island the signal that the power would go back on later and that they would have to give cash receipts that night. Besides, after a few hours, the cash register didn't work anymore. That is what it was there for, and I compared it with the situation in the Netherlands and in this part of Europe. It is a bit of a wretched but also applicable comparison on this evening, because the support programme for Greece will be over in a few hours. In the Netherlands, since these General Financial Reviews, things have only improved. At the time, it was a little careful. There were cautious points of light. However, I would remind you that the estimates of the Netherlands Bank, the IMF, the OECD and the European Commission have since been revised upwards. The estimates of the Central Planning Bureau have even happened several times. This will finally bring us back to the pre-crisis level and enable us to build on it. With regard to the growth expectations for 2016, we are now part of the European Union summit. In the meantime, not only exports have been attracted, but also producer and consumer confidence. We are now seeing for the first time that unemployment is falling slightly. For public finances, this means that the deficit is now falling rapidly. Sometimes you open up new estimates and you think: so, so, that's going down really fast. In short, more growth, a lower debt and therefore a stronger foundation for a healthy future of the Dutch economy. This is above all proof for anyone who said that we would cut this country down. They've got it all wrong. We have had an endless procession of reproaches over us, sometimes from the PVV, but more often from the SP. I remember saying you didn't have to cut with hedge shears. In the end, this proves that sometimes you have to intervene firmly. Sometimes you have to cut hard, and then you're gonna be okay. The Netherlands proves that you need to put things on track properly and firmly if the economy is to fail. And the sooner you do that, the faster the country's economy will grow again. The spring note now before us also shows the impact of the better times on public finances. If I take up the whole story and also answer the many questions for which I thank the Minister, I can see that there are few details. That, too, is special in itself. Just remember that up to a year or two back every spring you saw that there were billions of overruns on the care that could hardly be solved in the current year and thus made a claim to the future. What a stark contrast to the way that's written in the spring note these days. At the same time, not everything is carefree, but now things are just soluble. There's been some bumps and setbacks. Here and there we have to go through the dust comb that I like, for example, in dealing with the exchange rate loss, with various savings losses and also with the impact of the decision on the gas extraction to be debated tomorrow. On the other hand, the economy is simply turning better on its own. This is reflected, for example, in income from corporation tax. The fact that things are getting better also means that we have to look to the future wisely. For the efforts of all the modernisations of recent years were there for a reason. We do not do this to allow the government to expand again at the first breath of wind. We do that because, as far as we are concerned, there is a greater purpose. We would very much like to maintain this foundation. Where space is created, as far as we are concerned, this is also in the next year's budget, so we want to focus on the two things that we know about. One task is that there must be money for security and defence, because the world has quickly become restless, close to Europe's borders and further away. In my opinion, many people in the Chamber agree that we need to make more efforts to achieve this. The other major task is a tax reduction, in which we make work more attractive. The amount required for this is now rising. We are eagerly looking forward to the cabinet's proposals to fill that out in the next Millions' note. As the VVD is focused on these two points, my group has no further comments on this Spring note and can agree to it. We would like to see the Minister again with a roaring budget on Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u4	Mr. Chairman. The situation with Greece overshadows this debate. The spring note does not show much excitement, but there is a very good chance that we will see a completely different picture in December in the debate on the Autumn note. In fact, the margins of uncertainty are much greater than in many Spring notes. This is why the CDA gives a profit warning: windfalls can quickly become setbacks. Since the situation in Greece has exploded as a result of the announcement of the referendum and the dust has not yet descended, some caution is appropriate. Of course, after years of recession and billions of increases in charges, the CDA also believes that air is appropriate for citizens. However, we do not have to go straight to the point when, in the event of a slight setback, this will lead to a further increase in the burden. Restoring confidence in the economy and restoring confidence in politics demand that the government pursue a credible and long-term wise policy and not blow with all winds. Economic setbacks could be lurking. So load lighting is not something we can just arrange; it is a choice, an informed choice. If there are setbacks, they must be taken into account within the budget. Does the Minister share this with us? A setback that might hinder the reduction of charges is not Greece, but, ironically, the European Commission itself. In fact, the Minister has informed the Chamber both orally and in writing that it is only permitted to reduce the burden and reduce the deficit if there are actual reforms. Our question is whether this will happen. A setback that we know will take place is the reduction of gas extraction in Groningen. Let me say first of all that this was a wise decision by Minister Kamp. The CDA supports, under conditions, the choice to obtain only 30 billion cubic tons of gas this year. My colleague Agnes Mulder, together with a colleague from the Christian Union, will discuss this further in the gas debate tomorrow. However, this represents a setback of EUR 1.6 billion, almost 0.3% of revenue. I ask the Minister why we have not received a letter of amendment to record this in the budget. In advance, we have tabled an amendment together with the Christian Union. The gas is one of the uncertainties that we must take into account. Another major setback is the three additional EU payments of up to EUR 1.8 billion. We'll get a lot of that back later. We ask the Minister whether it is possible to ensure that we pay net, so that we do not get anything back in the end. So did the Italians. They paid exactly so much in 2014 that what they get back in 2015 matches what they still have to pay. We can actually understand that. Speaking of which, I would like to ask the Minister why the Dutch Government still does not want to make its views public on the documents it has sent to the European Commission. We have adopted the own resources decision here. As this has not yet entered into force, 1.8 has been blocked. Which countries have not yet approved this? How do we ensure that these countries ratify the decision quickly? The Spring note always gives a glimpse of the windfalls and setbacks. This year's Millions Note was based on an oil price of 107 dollars. Now it's cut to $53. That is a huge boost for the economy, as is the low interest rates. However, this means that economic recovery is fragile. If the price of oil goes up again, our economy will be directly affected, with many consequences. The same applies to interest rates. The government has announced that it will slightly extend the maturity of government loans, but because there is a very volatile market, we would like to hear from the government what happens if there is a 3% to 4% interest shock across the entire interest rate curve. Then what happens to the housing market? What happens to the sovereign debt? What happens to the private property? This will again be on the long-term average. That's not a weird scenario at all. However, it should not be the case that certain sectors in the Netherlands go through their hoofs at once. For example, the insurance sector suffers from low interest rates. Is the government prepared to pass this on and see what precautions are in place? Another major setback in the budget is the implementation costs of the Tax Administration. The reasons for this are, among other things, the cost of implementing a new policy. There's still an issue in there for this fall. Can the Tax Administration handle many changes to the tax plan? The CDA wants relief. However, after reading last night's letters on the SVB, we are genuinely concerned about the consequences and possible chaos in the Tax Administration. We are not waiting for blue episcopal envelopes or another 100 million setback. The General Court saw only one serious deficiency, namely the ICT situation in the Tax Administration. Changing tariffs could even cause problems. So I am not talking about a system change. We cannot imagine the Minister not recognizing this problem. How is he going to ensure that this does not lead to major problems in autumn or next spring? We see a windfall in Minister Asscher's sectoral plans. And what luck, because it means that not all the money has been put in a bottomless pit. Can we stop further spending these funds now before it is too late? The question is drying up, because apparently there is no interest in the plans anymore. They're very expensive per job created. Many parties in the House of Representatives now also doubt it. Does the Minister of Finance, as guardian of sensible spending, agree with us? And does he support the motion of colleagues Van Weyenberg and Pieter Heerma, which calls for the sector plans not to be continued now? Is he willing to take care of that? Then defense. In the spring note, the defence budget is decreasing, while the instability in the world is increasing very rapidly, and the armed forces are running in the red and are in danger of falling through their hooves. The cabinet promised a trend break but instead we see continuation of the trend. The defence budget is declining in real terms, but even more so as a percentage of GDP. The Van der Staaij motion is pushed forward like a hot potato. In doing so, the cabinet is violating Wales' NATO agreement to move defence spending towards the NATO 2% standard in ten years' time. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that he also sees the need to work towards the NATO standards for defence expenditure? And at what time will that happen? Then care. Expenditure seems to be lower than budgeted. The CDA welcomes this, but we are seeing great risks together with the Court of Auditors. Firstly, it appears that windfalls are mainly in policy that was used a few years ago, such as cheaper medicines. The setbacks are often in new policies, such as the one where he is again the problem with the payout of the pgbs. That policy only leads to setbacks and not, as it were, windfalls. We have a specific question for the Minister. Has there been a reservation on the budget for the many claims that the pgb-files will bring, especially after the court's final ruling? 'Cause this could be another setback of over 100 million. Furthermore, there is still a lot of uncertainty in the care sector about the dbc turnover in medical-specialist care and ggz. The Court states that with the government's current commitment, we will probably never understand the actual turnover of hospitals in 2012 and 2013. The Court warns that there is a threat of the same for 2014 and 2015 and that therefore auditors will not give a declaration of approval. This uncertainty continues to the Health Insurance Fund. With regard to its annual report 2013, the auditor issued a statement of abstention. All in all, this means that the 2011 risk settlement, which took place four years ago, has still not been definitively established. We are talking about the curative care sector of between 30 billion and 40 billion, where the statements are four years behind and we do not know how much is being spent. The healthcare budget comes across in this way, to say the least. Does the Minister recognise that the funding of care has become far too complex and is there a plan for this? In what way will the Ministry of Finance work with VWS to get things in order? And is it true that the statement of auditors with abstention from the Health Insurance Fund means that the premium and risk settlement are based on uncertain figures? What impact does this have on a reliable picture of public finances? Finally, the debate on the Spring Note has become unexpectedly exciting as a result of developments in Greece. The economy is crawling out of the valley. As my colleague from the VVD pointed out, this is happening faster than expected. But the future is more uncertain than expected. That's what the CDA's worried about. It demands from politics that we do not go crazy in acclaiming the windfalls and making commitments. Let that be the message of this debate: prudent and cautious. The debate on the spring note is normally the Minister's last plenary debate before the summer recess. I wouldn't dare put my hands in the fire for that this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Spring paper shows that the economic recovery is continuing across the board. Economic growth, forecast at 1.7%, is significantly higher than expected six months ago. Unemployment is falling. More houses are being sold. Consumer confidence is increasing. Construction attracts. We see that in the state debt. The deficit is improving and debt seems to be below 70% this year. The cabinet laid a good foundation for this. The housing market has been reformed. The financial sector is far-reachingly regulated and is on its way back to health, although it is not yet fully healthy. Sometimes painful and difficult measures have been taken in the care sector and municipalities have been given more responsibilities. All these measures provided the basis for the economic recovery that has now been undertaken. In fact, this Minister's budgetary policy will make it possible to focus the tax system more on work next year. The PvdA has consistently stressed in recent years that employment and the fight against unemployment are the main priorities for the moment. This can be continued next year on the basis of the budget we are looking forward to. I'll go into the spring note in more detail. The PvdA notes that the budgetary frameworks set by the Cabinet are closing again. This conducts a prudent and controlled fiscal policy. There are a number of things that stand out and I would like to go into more detail. I pay particular attention to five themes. These are the estimates, the EU's payments, the cash slides, the task-setting under-exhaustment, a particular phenomenon, and the duration of the sovereign debt. First of all, the estimates. The Netherlands has a large budget of EUR 248 billion for this year. It's kind of weedy that sometimes there are anomalies. That's inevitable. You can't window everything exactly. For example, unemployment can never be foreseen, but it has a huge impact on public spending. Nevertheless, the PvdA identifies structural deviations on a number of points. Does the Minister acknowledge that and what is he going to do about it? First of all, I would like to mention the health budget. The Court of Auditors often points to the Court's limited budget right on that point. I would like to highlight today in particular the information on the impact of policies and the quality of estimates. It is good that the expenditure on medicines is not so bad. That is a good thing, because no one benefits from spending more on medicines than necessary. However, it happens time and time again with substantial amounts of money. It is important that the Court has good information on what is being spent on medicines and other items in the budget over the next few years. The same applies to participation policies. The dividend holders are more than 50% of the expected dividend revenue year by year. That's a lot. It's nice that it's not so bad, but it's even nicer if you window it right and if the Chamber itself can decide how it wants to use those funds. Does the Minister recognize that? We also see setbacks. The rent allowance falls short for a number of years in a row, as well as the childcare allowance. It is good that the cabinet sees room to invest extra in the childcare allowance next year, so that it becomes more affordable for families. The PvdA asks the setbacks to be explicitly involved in the rental payment in the decision-making in August. We discussed this in detail last year. After all, there is only one budget line with the Minister of Housing and National Service, and that is the rent allowance. If there's a setback, it'll end up right there. I come to the EU's payments. I have already said that the European Union's budgetary process is one of lickmest. After-taxation, supplementary budgets, poor accounts of expenditure, after-payment, moreover, many years in a row of side payments because we were getting back money that was budgeted but not spent. That really needs to be better, more predictable, more stable and at fixed times. I have tabled a motion on this with Mr Harbers, which has also been adopted. D66 has taken the initiative to propose that this be considered by the Presidency. Is there any indication of results in the run-up to the Presidency? What actions are being taken to this end? Then there's the third theme. The cash slides are quite large each year. In the case of infrastructure, that is understandable. Since you do not know exactly whether the expenditure will fall there in December or in January, you can slide a little. However, we also see it in the case of investments in defence and renewable energy, for example. The PvdA does not want to delay the process, especially in the area of renewable energy. Can the Minister confirm that the funds made available for renewable energy will also remain available in the long term? I come to the fourth of my five themes, and that is the phenomenon of task-setting under-exhaustment. It's used in the State Department and in the Health Department. This phenomenon seems to be a bit harsh with the budget law of the House of Representatives. We already know the deadline, the additional item and the budgetary reserves. These are all posts which can nevertheless be used to cover measures. Where the Chamber has indicated that it has made money available for these and those budgets, the department must still cover the underexhaustment. And that is a special phenomenon to me. How does the Minister intend to change it in the longer term? I believe that the items mentioned in the budget are sufficient to cover the setbacks. My fifth theme is the duration of the sovereign debt. You will hear, Mr President, that this has really become a budget story. I thought that is what I am using this debate on the Spring Note for. We have often talked about this term of government debt in recent years. There's also a report on it that just came out. The average maturity of the sovereign debt is seven years. However, between 2012 and 2014, 88% of the cases where the maturity was longer did not actually return to that average of seven years. The PvdA Group welcomes this in itself, because at extremely low interest rates you can benefit from it. However, an explicit balancing framework has not been established. I understand that it is in the making, but I would like to know exactly what the policy is on the duration of interest rates. What is the average maturity of the current portfolio? The Chamber has been told that this would be seven years, but it still seems that because of that extension, so if you don't put that 88% back on it, it has become eight, nine or maybe ten years. If that is the case, then my question is what has actually been the consideration. It's about a lot of money and a percent interest is a big deal. So I think it's okay that the Chamber can also send it over and establish it. Mr Harbers was looking forward to a booming budget for next year. The PvdA Group looks forward to a budget that is geared to employment and employment and more income for all. This option offers the budgetary policy pursued by the cabinet in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u6	Mr. Chairman. I don't want to spoil the hallelujah mood, but I'm trying anyway. Okay, the economy is growing by up to 2% this year and next year according to the last June estimate of the CPB. I notice that this is almost a doubling of what the CPB predicted in September. At that time, the figure was 1.25%. How can this growth spurt be explained? I understand that the coalition parties are beating themselves on the chest of "we're doing so well and it's all on our hands," but if you look closely, you see that the price of oil was calculated in September at 107 dollars while it's now at 53 dollars. That's a half ring. That is, of course, good to compensate for these ridiculous increases in excise duties. We can see it all by the pump. The gas is a lot more affordable. In September, long-term interest rates stood at 1.8%, which is now 0.5%. That is, of course, a tremendous incentive for house sales. House buyers think: I have to buy now, because now the long interest rate is nice and low. In September, the euro exchange rate stood at 1.35. Right now, it's at 1.10. Of course, that's very good for export. In September inflation was still forecast to be 1.25%, which has now been adjusted to 0.4%. That's good for consumption again. It is no wonder that the economy is better placed and attracted. The economy is growing not thanks to this cabinet, but despite this cabinet. What does the Cabinet have to do with it? Take, for example, purchasing power: next year it will be negative again and -0.3%. For older people with a small supplementary pension, purchasing power goes to -1.5%. That's what the Cabinet has a bearing on. Unemployment is not falling. This one stays 650,000, so it's sky high. According to CBS, unemployment is even growing: in the last quarter of last year it was 660,000 and in the first quarter of this year it was 664,000. We do not see the falling trend the cabinet is talking about in the CBS figures. How can you explain this? What message does this minister have to the 165,000 people who have lost their jobs since this cabinet took office? The expected job growth of 6,000 in the first quarter of this year is also not achieved according to the CBS. It is not possible to tilt this image, despite all the prosperity, despite all the promises and despite all the sectoral plans. Speaking of sectoral plans, Mr Omtzigt has already said what happened to the 700 million? How many jobs did this bring? Isn't this a waste of money? Where are the jobs? Now the cabinet comes with a douche bag of relief. First it raises the burden by 15 billion and now it gives back a 5 billion crumb. Well, that should make us happy. The worst part is that the elderly are consciously forgotten. These people have felt the crisis the hardest in their pockets and will be able to turn in their supplement and tax rebate to this minister next year. This reduces their purchasing power by 1.5%. This is downright antisocial. Then I come to the EU's soap of payments. These payments are written a lot in the spring note. It is almost entirely devoted to increasing the amount of money to the European Union. How could it be any different? First of all, there is a setback of 1.8 billion, because we have to wait another year for our discount. Why should this ratification of the own resources decision take so long? If the Netherlands has to pay, the minister is in the front with his checkbook, but if we have to get something back, we can wait three years. We're gonna have to postpone. The same applies to the post-tax due to the CBS resource revision. In December, the Minister made 1.1 billion and we hope we will get 460 million back this year. Any sign of that 460 million-dollar return yet? A further 600 million was earmarked for this year for the new ESA 2010 calculation method. This reservation was a little too spacious and is now adjusted down by 220 million. That's good, but let's not cheer too early. Fortunately, the CBS has made some interim GNI adjustments, allowing us to pay another 218 million extra in 2011 and 2012. Do you still get it? The windfall we could face was immediately turned back on our necks. What about the additional payment for 2013 and 2014? The Minister expects us to pay another 200 million extra to the European Union. In short, the European Union in the Spring Paper is one major disappointment, not only for the Minister, but for the whole of the Netherlands. Since December last year, we have paid an additional 1.5 billion on top of the 7 billion we lost to this European nightmare every year anyway. The Prime Minister promised on Accountability Day an overview of all changes in the 2014 EU payments, but he promises more often; that's how we know him. That is why I am now asking this Minister when we can look at that overview. Because of all these taxes we no longer see the forest through the trees. Then I'll come to the shelter. In September last year, 375 million more were allocated to deal with the asylum system. That was 375 million for the rest of 2014 and for 2015. It appears to have run out six months later. In fact, we are still running out of 400 million. In two years' time, the Netherlands has therefore spent nearly 1.6 billion on asylum. I repeat: 1.6 billion! And that's just freshman day care. We cannot even know the cost of housing, care, education and benefits. This cabinet makes the wrong choices. The cabinet opts for asylum seekers and spends 1.6 billion in reception, but at the same time cuts 1.4 billion in care for the elderly. The government opts for Africa and spends 4.3 billion on development aid, but at the same time increases VAT by 4 billion. The cabinet opts for Brussels and not for purchasing power and jobs. The cabinet opts for emergency aid and not for our pensioners. The PVV chooses the Netherlands. The cabinet drops the Netherlands hard and, especially in recent weeks, is more concerned with Greece, Europe and Africa, think about asylum seekers than with the Netherlands. Of course, the EUR 258 million set aside for the rent payment is not surprising: if you first increase the rents giganticly, you should not be surprised that more fees have to be paid. The worst part is that this setback has to be resolved within the Living budget. This means that next year people will receive less fees and will have to pay a higher rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u7	Mr. Chairman. In the five years I've been in the Chamber, it's getting more and more fun to be a financial spokesman. The first few years were just about the crisis, about austerity, about more and more difficult measures to get the budget in order. Luckily, the tide is really starting to turn. A while ago, you had to hold your heart at every estimate from the Central Planning Office and hope that the estimate didn't get any worse. In the meantime, however, it is almost a question of whether director Laura van Geest does not wear pink glasses. I hear Mr Nijboer saying that Mrs van Geest generally does not wear pink glasses. I agree with him, but that aside. The economy and public finances are getting better and better. Expenditure remains below the expenditure framework, the budget deficit is falling and debt is also moving towards the 60% ceiling. However, it is not yet time to sit back. The budget deficit is still higher than 2% of GDP. Next year the deficit would be 0.8%, but that will change. In the spring note, I have questions about four somewhat technical issues: the childcare allowance, the collective agreement for civil servants, the budget reserve for renewable energy and the dividends of state participations. I'll start with the childcare allowance. I also drew attention to this in the debate on accountability. Indeed, since 2012, it has been shown that the childcare allowance is spending much less than expected each year. The impact of earlier cuts is greater than expected. The total amount involved is almost 800 million less than in 2012. Those are the windfalls in the budget, but they are actually a setback in reality. This often means that there are more people in practice, especially women who prefer to work at home. During the accountability debate, D66 together with GroenLinks tabled two motions. One motion asks the cabinet to use the underutilisation after 2016 by extending the scheme. This under-utilisation was 309 million in 2014 and the Spring Note charges an amount of 455 million in 2019. An increase of 250 million, as the cabinet now proposes, is a little lean. Why is the whole underutilisation not being reversed, as requested in the motion tabled by Mr Grashoff and I in the debate on responsibility? The estimate has now been substantially revised for several years, but who tells us that next year there can be no deviation of hundreds of millions? This has been the case for three years. For three years there has been a deviation of 200 million or 300 million. What is the Minister's opinion on the motion in which we propose that an independent second opinion be carried out on that estimate? My next question concerns the collective agreement for state officials. There will be a general discussion tomorrow with Minister Blok, but I also have a number of questions for the Minister of Finance. D66 considers it important that the cabinet finally let go of the zero line. That promise makes you feel guilty. But I'd like to know where the cabinet is going to find room for a raise. The wages of state officials were increased by 0.8% following a D66 motion. It was a compensation because civil servants also have fewer pensions. That 0.8% was therefore not compensation for the zero line, but concerned the pension premium paid by the Empire as an employer and it fell. Do I understand correctly that, because of the decline in pension contributions in the market sector, the overall wage adjustment is falling and that the benefit of this falling pension premium will ultimately end up in the treasury rather than in the departments? That is what the departments have to pay for the increase of 0.8% in pensions. It should not be the case that the cabinet now says that there is no room for a normal wage increase because it has already been paid 0.8%. I'd like to get a little more sense of the amounts we're talking about. How much money does the Cabinet have available for a raise? What amount would be required for the 3% wage requirement of the trade unions? Negotiation is complicated; I understand that. The minister's starting to laugh. Is it possible to achieve this without cutting back in another place? I would like to hear a diplomatic reply from the Minister. I come to the renewable energy budget reserve on the EZ budget. Crazy things happen there, don't they? Mrs. Mulder's nodding. Last week she discussed this extensively with Mr Van Veldhoven. For the period 2015-2020, the budget reserve is emptied to cover the general picture with a detour setback. The budget reserve goes to the budget and the money that was originally on that budget is used as cover for setbacks in the rich budget. After 2021, the budget reserve will be replenished, but I still have an uncomfortable feeling about it. These budgetary reserves are not there to solve any problem with the treasury. They're just meant to put a fence on certain expenses. If they are used for this purpose, I wonder whether we should want these budgetary reserves or whether we should agree more clearly that the money from the budget reserve is really only used for those who fail within the purpose of the reserve. I'd like a reaction to that, too. I'm gonna get on with the dividends. Mr Nijboer also spoke about it. The Spring Note raises the dividend estimate for State participations again. In the meantime, that's a steady shot. The dividends are always higher than budgeted. Over the past five years, the average achievement was 54% higher than the estimate. Every year there was a windfall of 220 million euros on average. And so the dividends are an attractive game of lubrication for the Minister of Finance. But if you look at how annoying some cuts have been in recent years, I would have preferred to know in advance rather than afterwards that there is an additional 200 million in the treasury every year. It is also not good for the Court's budget law if structural estimates are too low. I prefer to talk about the use of dividends in the budget discussions in the autumn. Isn't it time to make the estimate a little more realistic?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. The increasing number of benefits under the Income Services Act for the elderly is not only an indication, according to 50PLUS, of the persistent ageing unemployment rate. We are once again calling for urgent attention to be paid to this, especially as we are gradually getting better with youth unemployment. Older people's unemployment remains worrying. The effluent from the WW is patheticly low. In the answer to our actual questions, the cabinet is unabatedly referring to the importance of combating long-term unemployment among older people. So the question is, how? Figures show that the Action Plan 50PlusWorks and the activities for older people in sector plans hardly lead to results. Is the cabinet finally prepared to step up its approach to older people's unemployment and, if so, how? After years of hard austerity, there will be room for relief. 50PLUS finds it incomprehensible that the cabinet speaks of sound and social policies such as pensioners and beneficiaries, even according to the figures of the cabinet, not or hardly communicate in that reduction of charges. The consultation with the beloved opposition 2.0 on the tax review has ended after only two hours. What is the status of package 1: the 5 billion reduction of charges? May I assume that's open to the Chamber now? The CPB study entitled Less Care for Ageing from 2014 clearly shows that with the reforms already implemented, including around the AOW, ageing will no longer lead to unsustainable public finances in the future. But that was the argument for unilaterally unfavourable measures against pensioners. Then why not let the same old people share in this burden relief in a proportionate way? In my view, it is impossible for the government to justify the fact that pensioners and beneficiaries do not share or hardly share in the reduction of charges. 50PLUS tabled a motion for a resolution to the debate on the main letter on tax reform. Unlike the Cabinet, 50PLUS sees the downside to the rent allowance in the spring note as a sign that the affordability of rentals by the landlord tax has come under severe pressure. Hires rise year by year significantly, on top of inflation. What extra effort is made to keep rents affordable? We believe that the bill for this setback should not be placed with the tenants. Additional amounts have been entered in the Spring Note in relation to the implementation costs of the drawing right pgb. There will be an AO on this subject this week, but I would like to highlight this important point. How can the solution of this problem be pushed forward over and over again? How are the implementation costs borne? What total implementation costs are taken into account? Clients should not suffer any more. Finally. The cabinet sees no adverse effects of the VAT increase from 6% to 21%, even in construction. We find that incomprehensible. I have not yet heard any argument as to why it would be wise to end the low rate as will happen tomorrow, not even when answering our targeted factual questions. What is the importance of increasing the VAT rate to 21%? I want to understand, but I can't. In the end, does this lower rate not yield much more to financial effects, economic effects, employment effects, sustainability effects and environmental impacts than the 256 million it costs the Treasury a year? Can the cabinet go into that in detail again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u9	In doing so, we have come to the end of the first term of the Chamber without interruption. In view of the large number of reasonable technical questions that have been asked, I propose that they be suspended until exactly 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u10	I would like to inform you that the Minister needs a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna get my papers together, because so many different subjects have come along. I'm trying to construct some sort of logical sequence, but maybe I should just give it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u12	I'd like to suspend one more time, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u13	No, that's not helping, I'm afraid. It has been said by several speakers that we are in a much better position and that successive estimates have been revised upwards. That's right. You can see that in the contributions of the members. This year, members are zooming in more on departmental bottlenecks, shifts, adjustments of estimates, etc., and a little less on the main themes. That is a reassuring thought, because I note that the major issues that lie ahead are developing well. However, this also allows members to dive deeper into certain specific questions. That in itself brings me another challenge, because I need to know all of that. Which, of course, is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u14	Having said that, I am not going to make a long introduction, and I am going to deal with these issues right away. After all, it's 10:00 p.m. Questions have been asked by several Members, including Mr Nijboer, about estimates which have repeatedly been different from what was thought. For example, healthcare expenditure is not as bad as it gets. There are also windfalls in the childcare allowance, which some people see as real setbacks, because the use of childcare is decreasing. And with the rent supplement, there are many setbacks over and over again. How do we deal with that? It is in the interests of the entire cabinet, but certainly of finance, to have accurate estimates. This also creates peace in budgetary policy. At the same time, of course, there remains a high degree of uncertainty. In some schemes this is stronger than in others. In the area of care, for example, there is a great delay. The Chamber often calls attention to this. How do we finally get control of that? That also has to do with the budget right of the Chamber. How can you use that right if you don't even know what has been spending on different forms of care over the past few years? This also makes it difficult to make estimates in areas of care policy. The Minister of VWS is working on that. To be honest, she has been working on this for a long time. It is also partly in the system of how in the cure operations can be declared. Think of the dbc-systematiek. A dbc can be open for a long time. As long as it's not closed, it won't be taken care of. As long as treatment continues, a dbc may be open. I am not an expert in this area, but I believe that we have recently reached agreements to shorten the opening of the DB. This means that a dbc is closed earlier and is also dealt with financially earlier. Those are attempts to shorten the long time it takes for the figures to close.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u15	I realize that no one is sitting in the gallery of this room right now, but there are people watching with us at home. I would therefore ask the Minister, for example, to make a concept such as dbc a full name for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u16	Now I have to pay attention! Doesn't that stand for "diagnostic treatment combination"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u17	Yeah, it stands for "diagnosis treatment combination." That's a concept of health care. Would you like to try that, Minister? In this way, people can still follow us somewhat, even though it is already late.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u18	I wanted to try to avoid these kinds of issues altogether, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u19	Yeah, but I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u20	I will try to help the Minister to avoid it, because that diagnosis treatment combination has now been replaced by the DOT again. I even forgot what that stands for. 'Dbc's On the Road to Transparency' I hear Mr Koolmees say. Those DOTs were always up to 365 days. However, accounts from 2011 are still open at the Health Insurance Fund and at the hospitals. Well, we can't fix that tonight, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u21	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u22	The minister says the Minister of VWS is working on this. So it would be very good if he or the VWS minister would come back to this in the Navy note. In this way, we can look at the situation, ensure that the approval of the audit reports does come in and we can see how fast that is going. It would also be good if there were a prediction when the successive years would be completed in the books. We are talking here about some tens of billions a year that are not subject to an audit report and for which there is no definitive determination of expenditure. Is that a good way to proceed with this dossier now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u23	I'm not going to say anything at this point. I do that because I don't want to be in the lead in this area. I am not just saying that because I don't like it and it's not just a formal position, but I really think that the trade minister should take the lead in this. It must ensure that expenditure is accounted for as well and as quickly as possible. I am sure that this discussion will also take place in the Chambers for VWS and with the spokesperson's attention. For many years, they have been calling for much faster accountability for healthcare expenditure. So let's not start organizing two parallel circuits where the Minister of Finance is going to set up a sort of separate route. This is just on the agenda at the permanent committee for VWS with the minister of VWS. If there is to be more pressure on that, I think that committee is the right place to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u24	That is a very strange concept of a task. Today we are talking about the Spring Note. It's all about the rich budget. It's not for nothing that a colleague of the SP started talking about the rent allowance. It is not on the Finance budget either, but on the budget of the Ministry of Housing. Other colleagues have spoken about gas or the military. All this relates to other sub-budgets, but they are all on the agenda for changes today. I therefore hope that the Minister is prepared to discuss all these points. Just because it's so technical, I wanted to take it off this way, but if it can't, yes, then this debate will be over soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u25	This is really completely intertwined in the system with which we finance care. I should like to have a debate on this with the financial spokesperson, but we will soon really get to the system of all kinds of health legislation and the way things are done. All I'm saying is, let's not have a parallel discussion about this, but let's have a discussion about it where it's already taking place with the VWS Minister. I'll take it upon myself to discuss it with her and ask her the question of control. Is the Chamber fully connected to this process of improvement? Has the Chamber been informed of what the Minister is doing with the sector and with the audit firms? If that is not the case, is it prepared to inform the Court of Justice of this by the end of the year? That is how I understand Mr Omtzigt's request. What's going on here? Will there be improvements and, if so, when? Any progress? I am happy to say that, but I will discuss this with my colleague in this way. The estimate uncertainty is also included in the childcare allowance. The model to estimate has recently been improved on the basis of the latest insights of the Central Planning Bureau and the Social Cultural Planning Bureau. The behavioural effects have indeed been much stronger than initially thought. That has led to adjustments. The expenditure is also closely monitored by the monthly implementation figures of the Tax Administration. In the case of the rent payment, the inflow of applicants has been found to be much higher than estimated in recent years. This has led to budget overruns for several years in a row. Because the budget of Wonen and Rijksdienst consists of 90% rent surcharge, the solution must be found there. Well, that's painful, of course. Indeed, the reason for this continuing increase has also been the subject of discussion between me and the Minister for Housing and National Service. Our assumption was always that it was in economic development. Whether it still explains it is, however, the question. A working hypothesis would be that it is also in the way homes are allocated. That is what is being discussed between the residents and the minister. The Minister also looks at this and comes back to the Chamber at some point. If the allocation of housing does not go well, it can of course lead to people sitting in too expensive houses and thus making a greater claim to rent surcharge. This should be avoided as far as possible. In order to avoid this, sufficient movement is needed on the rental housing market. I see Mr Van Gerven standing at the interrupting microphone. I still have a lot of questions about the rent allowance, but maybe you already want...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u26	We're gonna do it organically and see how it goes, but basically, I always like to do it in cubes. But, Mr. Van Gerven, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u27	I do not know if the Minister will come back to the SP's plea to follow the open-ended system. It is applied to the mortgage interest rate deduction. If there are exceedances, that will be accepted. A different system is involved in the rent allowance. Isn't that basically a strange thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u28	Those are indeed other regimes. In the case of tax schemes, the effect is that of an open-ended scheme. However, these are expenditure schemes covered by the expenditure frameworks. If there are exceedances, they must be resolved. If there are large or structural windfalls, they are used to compensate for setbacks, but they can also go to the general picture and be used elsewhere. That is the nature of expenditure schemes and frameworks. That's a problem for the rent supplement. Firstly, therefore, we will have to understand much better why these expenditures are so high and secondly, I have already promised that we will in future involve the decisions on the rent payment in the purchasing power debate in August. After all, if you say before the summer that we need to intervene and that we need to cut the rent payment and you find in August that there is a purchasing power problem, after which you say "let's make some extra money available for the rent payment," then you are very busy. So we will do the same this year. It hasn't been completed yet. I believe that Mr Van Gerven also asked whether this austerity has been completed and how savings are being made. No, that hasn't happened yet. We moved that over to August. If we finish the budget, we will look at this as one of the last things.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u29	The Minister outlines the systems and why this expenditure estimate is going wrong. If the rent increases by 10% but the purchasing power does not increase accordingly, you get a pressure on the budgets for the rent supplement. That's obvious, but the important thing is that you have to choose. If you think that people with a certain income are entitled to a rent allowance, they should not suffer from the overruns. From the answer given by the Minister, I understand that there is thought to be some sort of solution to this problem. My question to the Minister is whether he can imagine the principle that the SP expresses here. Can he imagine that a solution is being sought which is more in the direction of some kind of open-ended regulation? If you think that a particular group is entitled to something and that it should not be put back on the tenants, it must be resolved in general terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u30	I cannot yet anticipate the way in which we are going to resolve this, if we can resolve it by August. That's the honest answer. We're gonna take a look at it in August. However, I will not propose this, because that would really require a much more substantial reform of the whole rental policy or at least of the rent payment and the budget of W and R. I can't promise here that it's an open-ended arrangement. It is now simply a category of expenditure, which is therefore bound by expenditure frameworks. I don't have any plans to tax her, nor do I have any plans to make the mortgage interest deduction a subsidy. So we have not yet solved this inequality. Whether it leads to austerity in relation to the rent surcharge we will really see in August. I can't say much more about it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u31	The Minister continues his speech. Mr Van Gerven may return to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u32	I mentioned the childcare allowance for a while. The estimates are being improved, and hopefully we will also better assess the behavioural effects. Mr Koolmees asked a question about a second opinion. He also asked if I am prepared to plow back the space that is created there, that windfall, into the childcare allowance. I understand that a motion has already been tabled. However, that motion has not yet been put to the vote. She's been apprehended. The aim of the cabinet is to achieve a balanced budget and, if necessary and if possible, to use windfalls that occur somewhere, first and foremost for those who fail in the same budget or elsewhere. The windfall on the childcare allowance 2014 has been used to cope with setbacks on the SZW budget. A possible intensification of childcare can be part of the tax review and tax plan in the autumn. I cannot go into that further. That's why I advise against the motion filed. As far as she had not yet been given an opinion, I am happy to do so. I must advise against the motion or ask the authors to hold it until the autumn debates. Then D66 and GroenLinks, too, I believe that these parties have tabled this motion together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u33	I did have two questions about the estimates, but the Minister has already indicated that the estimates are being revised on the basis of new insights from the Planning Bureau, the new model. My second question was about the effects that have been much greater in recent years than was originally expected. That's what you'll see in the years to come. In 2015, this is a windfall of around 300 million. In 2016, the weather rose to 455 million. Then, in fact, the observation is that the cabinet misjudged the effects of that austerity when it was implemented. This means that childcare is hit harder than was originally intended in the cabinet's plans. That is why I am asking for this increase towards 2016. I am not talking about the 2015 budget to be reserved for the labour market. We have said that this money was meant to create jobs, to keep people at work. If we see that these effects are greater, can we not reserve that money for the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u34	We will present plans on Princess Day to further stimulate the labour market. That depends on taxes as the Chamber knows or can see coming. Child care will certainly play a role in this. It cannot be the case that the space now created in the post-care sector will be rerouted one-on-one for childcare measures. I can't agree to that either. It won't be like that. Maybe I can make one more comment on those effects. If we have already misjudged it, it was based on estimation models that were based on the state of mind at the time. Hopefully it has improved now, because we have seen behavioral effects in recent years that have been stronger. We must also realise that it is not the case that these people have all started to work less because of the changes in childcare. There have also been a lot of behavioural effects that have led people not to house their children in childcare, but elsewhere. Think of grandparents being deployed massively. Whether that is desired or not, everyone can judge for themselves, but that is also a behavioral effect. Of course, there have been people who have withdrawn from the labour market, but the coherence between savings in childcare and the reduction of the behavioural effect of the labour market is very small. That's what I'm saying on the authority of the CPB that's been watching that. The employment rate of parents with young children has fallen slightly due to increased childcare costs. The biggest impact in that group is simply economic development, the crisis. People have been pushed off the labour market or fallen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u35	I fully agree with the Minister. At the same time, I note that we have been holding this debate for three years now, every time in the spring note and the autumn note. Meanwhile, the difference between the original austerity and the effect is already 800 million larger. Has the effect not been overtaken, especially now that the Central Planning Office calculates that booking that money for childcare does indeed have good labour market effects?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u36	I particularly appeal to the last thing Mr Koolmees says. That is what we have established. Putting money into childcare policy in a good way can be very effective in the context of labour market policy. If we find resources on Princess Day to further boost employment, for example in the context of tax measures, then we will certainly involve childcare, because it works so well in the labour market. This means that you are going to change the content of the policy. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u37	If I am not mistaken, the Minister is a member of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u38	Voila!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u39	The Minister nods in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u40	I said something about the language at the beginning of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u41	"Here" or "indeed."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u42	When we talk about childcare, the Minister says that it has only limited effect and that it is mainly the crisis, but there are also figures that create a different picture. The crisis undoubtedly has an impact, but I quote from the figures we have also received on the childcare allowance. Those figures relate to single mothers. In 2010 to date, they fell from 63.8% to 56.2%. 7,5% less single mothers went to work or left work because of the austerity of the childcare allowance. What does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u43	All I know is the CPB analysis. I quoted it. That was a qualitative quote. I don't know where these numbers come from. I know, however, that in recent years the cabinet has taken a number of far-reaching fiscal measures precisely for the group of single mothers who are or want to come to work. If Mr Van Gerven can remember the purchasing power figures, it was this very group that was making a great deal of progress. From my point of view, it has improved by 9% through a number of targeted measures. These people need to be supported when they go to work. That is what we have been pursuing. Mr Van Gerven is trying to isolate these measures for this group, and I would mention a figure I do not know. Perhaps I can come back to it in the second term if Mr Van Gerven gives me the source.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u44	It concerns Room 31322, No. 274, page 5, table 4. The piece comes from the Ministry, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau or the CPB, from that gremia. I am concerned that, for the most vulnerable, we should also be the single mothers when it comes to participation in the labour market, so that we can reduce the thresholds for good childcare as much as possible. Does the Minister agree with that statement? Does he want to check again from a positive point of view whether this can be resolved? There seems to be a lot of money left, because there is too little use of childcare. Then there must also be room to lower the threshold for people to make use of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u45	Once again, specifically for this group, the single low-income parents who are working or want to benefit from the assistance, we have taken very targeted measures to ensure that they are making real progress. That's one part of my answer. The second part is that I am not going to commit to childcare measures. I say this, as I have already done to Mr Koolmees. On Prinsjesdag, when we take a package of measures for the labour market with the aim of creating jobs, childcare could just be in there, because childcare is an effective measure if you use it properly. I say this again on the authority of the CPB, which argues this. I am not going to take measures for extra money in childcare for a specific target group. Mr Nijboer raised the question of whether the windfalls in the medicines and the setbacks in the rent surcharge were being processed in a structural manner. If you see year in, year out windfalls in the drugs, you'd almost think there's air there and we'd have to push it out structuralally. For both categories: yes, both the windfalls and the windfalls mentioned by Mr Nijboer are structurally processed. Nevertheless, there has been another windfall, as has happened with medicines before. The policy is therefore apparently very effective. There is the preference policy of insurers: to compensate for the cheapest but equivalent resources. The patent also ends with many medicines. This type of development is also assessed as best as possible by the Zorginstituut (Zorginstituut). That's where we sail. If there's always windfalls, we'll pick them out structuralally. Finance is always very alert to that, because it is always looking for money. So if we see opportunities there, we do. This also means that the fallout in the rent allowance is also structural. That is annoying for Minister Blok and for the tenants. But, as I said, we're moving that decision forward to August. Then we'll see what we can do with that. I've already given the explanation for the rise. Mr Nijboer also asked about the phenomenon of "tasking under-exhaustment." On all budgets, you're underexhausted. Most of the time, you don't know that in advance. If you see any setbacks in the course of the year, you can say to a department: make sure that you also have underexhaustment in the budget, with which you can compensate the disappointment at some point. Mr Nijboer may say that he feels that this is undesirable, but in future you should say to the Minister in question: you are seeing a setback there, so you need to take action now. We cannot anticipate or control any underexhaustment or that underexhaustment already ear tags for a setback elsewhere. However, this gives a great deal of flexibility to departments and ministers. I am therefore in favour of allowing this to continue, of course in a responsible manner. At VWS the task-setting under-exhaustment has been great in the past. This will be completed with a reasonable transitional period. Then for at least VWS it will be zero again from 2017. So I would not want to lose the instrument as such. In the same context, a question has been asked about the dividend estimates. It was suggested that the finance minister here had, as it were, created a wallet for himself. If that were the case, it wouldn't be right. We are making these estimates extremely prudent and realistic. We also take risks into account. These are companies that have to operate in a market environment or semi-market environment, so you cannot just say: this is the result that is going to be booked. This is, of course, surrounded by risks, with far more risks than with an official service, where you can often still control spending, costs and so on. So there's a lot of risk in it. They have been less frequent in recent years. Different holdings, such as Gasunie and Schiphol Airport, have simply performed better than expected. The state participations also give me a lot of headaches, so let there be a positive result in terms of dividends to compensate for the many headaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u46	We're going to talk about these state participations tomorrow. It is true that there is prudent budgeting. Thus, there is an average drop of 54% of the expected dividends per year. That's all I care about. I understand there are risks in it. I also understand that it may be disappointing if a company is malfunctioning or if it is just a bad market. I'm talking about the 54%, out of 400 million dollars a year. It is therefore on average 220 million per year higher than expected. That might be a reason to look at that estimate for once. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u47	The state's participations are simply very well managed, which leads to good results! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'll take a sip and then I'll give you the serious answer. The serious answer is that we are going to work much more specifically per state participation with a standard return. That is what Mr Koolmees was able to read in the new memorandum on state participations. We now just have an estimate of the entire portfolio: it should be about that much, hatseflats. We're gonna do that much more precise windows. We're gonna differentiate it, too. So some get a standard return...Sorry, chairman: hatseflats?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u48	Sustained!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u49	Thank you. So in some we're going to steer on a higher standard yield. In this way we can also specify our estimates. That is the serious answer to Mr Koolmees' question. We're gonna do it much more accurately in the future, and we're gonna differentiate by participation. I'm on defense. Mr Omtzigt said that the defence budget is falling in real terms. That is mainly due to the major cuts of the previous cabinet, in which... Anyway, let me not finish my sentence. The Van der Staaij motion is very well known to us. It's out front on our retina. On Prince's Day, we will return to that. As has been said, we want to reverse the trend of falling defence expenditure. We've made a small start on that. We have already said that we are going to see what else is possible in the years to come. Mr Omtzigt will therefore have to be patient. On Prince's Day, we'll come back to that. But it is clear that with increased international tensions in all kinds of places close to us, our defence spending deserves real attention. I think that is a broad wish. Mr Nijboer asked a very specific question about cash shifting in the investment budget for the Defence Department. What do they mean for the bottlenecks in equipment, which are already serious, and for the employability of military personnel? Defence periodically adjusts the investment budget. This type of investment budget is based on the fact that there may be delays in all kinds of projects that have a long lead time. That's also true in the case of the Defense Department, although planning is getting better and better. It is almost unique to the nature of an investment budget. That's what you see in the infrastructure fund and in other places. There is therefore a temporary reduction in investment, which does not result in a reduction in readiness and deployment. Existing weapon systems are maintained from the operating budget. If there is a bottleneck somewhere on the employability of Defence, it is rather on the exploitation side, with insufficient resources for maintenance and renewal or to practice etc. There are real bottlenecks there. That also depends on the many missions at the moment. They're looking at that, too. I just need to get back to the care department. Mr Omtzigt has asked whether we are already taking into account setbacks around the pgb and in particular the claims that would accumulate around the pgb file. As Mr Omtzigt knows, the Sociale Verzekeringsbank appealed against the judgment of the Amsterdam canton court. So that case is under the judge. I can't anticipate it. I cannot go into the substance of the matter either. We haven't made a reservation yet. That is the concrete answer to his question. Mr Krol asked about the additional costs of the drawing right for pgbs. How can the solution of the problem of pgb always be pushed forward? How are implementation costs borne? What costs are now being taken into account? In this spring note, additional funds have been allocated to the problem at the Social Insurance Bank. Implementation costs 2015 are now estimated at 68 million. As Mr Krol knows, we are currently working hard to restore the implementation problem. The situation has already improved considerably. However, money is reserved for these additional implementation costs. Mr Krol and Mr Van Gerven have once again called for attention to be paid to the VAT rate in construction, in particular to repair and renovation. This was a temporary measure to give an extra incentive to a sector which was extremely difficult. Such a measure will only have effect if it is temporary. Then you stimulate people to maybe put extra money in it. At some point this measure has been worked out. Mr Krol said that it would now collapse and asked whether this could be pictured and investigated. No, we're not gonna do that. After all, it is a temporary measure. If we were to evaluate anything, it would be precisely the effect of the temporary reduction. I wouldn't be in favour of that, by the way. It takes years for those numbers to get inside the IRS at all. We do not make a breakdown by sector of how much VAT comes in. Moreover, you should also separate the effect of a VAT reduction or increase and economic developments, such as attracting construction as a result of economic recovery. I wouldn't recommend that. The only estimate we can make about the relationship between VAT and construction is that based on national account figures, but that is really very indirect. That is what you can see how the sector is developing. But economic impacts and the effects of policies are also mixed up. I certainly expect there to be a peak as the measure expires. People will be giving orders soon. So there will undoubtedly be a peak and then a short decline in the assignments. However, I am convinced that attracting the housing market, the economy and purchasing power will continue the recovery in the construction sector. That is why we have also decided to allow this temporary measure to be temporary. This is the best way to ensure that these measures are effective at the right moments. Mr Nijboer has asked several questions about interest charges and our Agent's policy. It notes that part of the newly issued debt has no longer been swapped back to seven years, which is the main rule in the applicable framework. He asked how this could be done, because he did not think that there was any discussion with Parliament about the adjustment of that policy. Actually, that's not true. It's really been talked about several times. I also refer to the framework. This explicitly indicates that, under conditions, derogations may be made from that seven-year benchmark. For the people at home: that seven-year benchmark comes down to borrowing at different lengths, but we swap it back to the seven-year point. I've lost you, Mr. Chairman, I can see it in your eyes. Or are you following it completely? But that is where the average seven-year benchmark for long-term loans comes from. That derogation is therefore allowed and has the explicit aim of securing interest charges, if they are very low, for a longer period of time. Then the term is extended. That was discussed in the Chamber. This derogation is also possible within the framework that my predecessor has discussed with the Chamber. We have also been accountable annually for the way in which we apply the framework. There is now an evaluation of the framework and a letter to the Chamber. After the summer we come up with more detailed and detailed proposals for the new framework. I look forward to the debate that we can then have more. Mr Nijboer also asked what the average interest rate is. A seven-year benchmark includes an average maturity of three and a half years. This has to do with the fact that each new seven-year loan also ends with one: on average three and a half years. This was the maturity for the period 2008-2012. As a result of the derogations I have just mentioned, the period of validity has increased to four and a half years by the end of 2014. At the end of this year, that's probably 4.9 years. In the new framework that I have already written about the Chamber, the aim is to come out between five and a half and six and a half years.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u50	This was exactly what I asked for. I fully acknowledge that the discretionary power and the derogation has been shared with the Chamber. However, it now seems that the material consequence of 7 years of 4.9 years as it becomes this year has actually gone to 10 years. That is a rather substantial shift which the PvdA has also advocated. I do not distance myself from that in substance, but I do think that this is a rather significant shift in the risk profile of interest charges. That is why I am asking for this in this debate. I am pleased that we will be able to have a fundamental debate on this in the autumn, because this is a bit done on the basis of ad hoc decisions. 88% was then extended. The result then suddenly appears to be that the duration of the loans has been substantially extended, while the Court has been asking for it for a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u51	That is not an accidental outcome, because we are going to steer it, encouraged by the Chamber. I have always said that we will make use of the space provided by the old framework and that there will be a new framework. The conditions are, moreover, that there should be no greater risk of interest being included in the budget and that there is a real chance of a longer-term financial advantage. This is all being worked out within the framework and we can discuss it. That's the trade-off. The risk shall always be quantified and assessed in that assessment. So this isn't random. It is a deliberate and gradual adjustment. Let us think about this separately on the basis of the documents. Questions have also been asked about the sector plans. That's one of my specialties, too. Mr Omtzigt said that support for the sector plans was drying up, but I thought that there was still a majority in favour of the sector plans. If that's different, I'd like to hear it. Minister Asscher has therefore discouraged the motion on the cessation of the sector plans. He addressed this during a legislative consultation last week. In the autumn there will be another report on the sector plans. It seems to me that it is far too early to abandon the specific commitment within sectors and within regions. Mr Koolmees asked in the framework of collective agreements to reveal the negotiating position of the cabinet. How much money is available? Where does that come from, et cetera? I can't do that. We are in serious negotiations. There is a shared interest in achieving a new collective agreement. If Mr Koolmees agrees, I will not expose the negotiating position of the Empire here. So I can't say much about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u52	I am not going to ask about the billions, nor am I going to ask about the negotiating position, because that is true for employers and employees. When I was looking at the systematic and reading Minister Plasterk's space letter, I was surprised to see that it looks like "I'm sorry," now comes a bit of technique that the salary adjustment room for state officials, police officers and teachers is derived from what's happening in the market caos. In the market cao's, you can see that pension contributions are falling, also due to the adaptation of the Witteveen framework. As a result, there is virtually no pay space available in the reference model for collective agreements. This also means that very little money is available for wage accommodation, while several parties here have also said that civil servants should get off the line again. How does one relate to the other? Can the Minister answer that question without mentioning billions or percentages?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mr Koolmees describes how the system works, and that is just right. This is also an additional bottleneck in these negotiations. That's why you need to see what you can do. I don't want to go into that now. Just give us a chance to get out of there, because it's not without a chance. The system checks out. Moreover, this 0.8% was made available not only because of a motion by D66. That percentage would have been available anyway, because that was just meant for pay space. Some parties will try to claim that as their thought, but that thought was not original.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u54	For the sake of completeness, we've speeded it up a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u55	If that's what Mr Koolmees wants to think, I'll give him that. That is what the collective agreement is about. Then I come to a few European points. Mr Omtzigt asked whether the announced reduction in charges would fit in with the European budget requirements. For the moment, we are counting on a net reduction of around 5 billion. We're looking for them, and we think it's possible. However, as Minister of Finance, I have to deal with it prudently. Mr Omtzigt always encourages me to do so. It's really gonna have to prove if that room's gonna be there. The signals are green, but we can't really decide until August. The European budget requirement is, of course, mainly concerned with the structural deficit....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is also right, because it is a difficult indicator that is mobile, which is difficult to predict and which is not nearly as reliable as the actual deficit. The structural balance therefore has larger margins. These margins can be viewed if you look at how much space there is to deviate from the final MTO (medium-term objective), the medium-term target. Therefore, caution should be maintained. I think Mr Omtzigt also wondered about the reform clause. If you reform, you can deviate more and take longer to reach that MTO. That's right. I have also worked very hard to link structural reforms with budgetary adjustments, at least for countries in the preventive arm of the Pact. The Netherlands has not yet applied for it. We have merely announced that we will be able to do this. It also depends, of course, on the package of tax changes and on the extent and depth of the system review. As you know, this is still on the move, at least, I assume. I believe that Mr Krol has asked whether the Chamber can still deal with package 1. Let me just say it in my own words. Of course. Whether the tax proposals are package 1, 2 or 3, the Court has the final judgment. In fact, there is another room on the other side that may also have an opinion on it. At some point it lands in the tax plan. Whatever the outcome of talks within or outside the coalition, they will come to the Chamber on Princess Day. In the series of European subjects, Mr Nijboer asked about the European budget. In the Netherlands, we have a tradition of calming down the budgetary process, with fixed moments and a limited number of changes. In Europe, it is a source of unrest, with an infinite number of supplementary budgets that can quickly succeed each other. Sometimes the fifth has already been adopted, but the third is still waiting for treatment. It's really extremely difficult to follow. We will therefore be committed to improving that process. A small smile escaped me when Mr Nijboer asked if there were any results. I laughed at that because I said that we will use our Presidency to try to improve it. Our Presidency has yet to begin and Mr Nijboer is already asking for results. I hear Mr Nijboer saying that it is about ambitions. I recognize that from Mr Pechtold. Ambitions I don't want to temper, but expectations do. The budgetary process in Brussels is extremely political and extremely difficult in terms of its implementation. Let no one have the idea that we will introduce a simple budgetary system in Brussels during our presidency. It's not gonna be like that. We're gonna work on it. 'Cause I'm getting a pretty pointy head of it. However, it will be a long process, with many players. We are going to inform your Chamber of how we will do that and what we hope to achieve. That will happen before the Presidency begins. Then the post-levy, also a favorite subject. Mr Omtzigt asked: has the Netherlands already paid the gross amount for the post-tax, but is net payment possible? He referred to Italy. I had to study on it for a while. I believe that Italy will have to pay before it can be repaid. Italy was one of the countries that only paid this year, I say by heart. Most countries, like the Netherlands, have just paid before the end of the year. Seven countries have therefore not done so. Everyone can make their own assessment of whether or not that payment is made before 1 January. We did this before 1 January because it was better from the point of view of cash management, balance and so on. Of course, the balance doesn't change net. That balance is annoying, because that's negative for us. I do not know whether that is enough to answer the question with Italy's example. Italy therefore has a slightly different position and indeed did not pay until 2015. The first part of the return is now in. We received 210 million in February of the sum of 400 million so much that we would get back. We'll get the rest later this year. There's no need to doubt that. Mr Omtzig has once again asked for the publication of documents, specifically the correspondence we had with the Commission on what should or should not be made public in the context of a WED procedure. To this end, the permanent cabinet line is that we do not disclose correspondence or e-mail exchanges between our diplomatic service in Brussels and the Commission. We believe that diplomatic movements should remain in the secrecy of the administrative process. This really has to do with the effectiveness of our action abroad and in Brussels. So we have a landline in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u56	It concerns the view of De Telegraaf's WOB request that the Dutch government has been asked for. Answers to parliamentary questions today show that the government regularly sends views on Commission plans to the Chambers. Now there's a point of view that doesn't work out very well. It is not sent publicly to the Chamber, while it shows why it could or could not be done according to the Dutch Government. Is the government prepared to send that view to the Chamber in public, like any other view? For this is not the case with diplomatic movements. This is the only document I am asking for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u57	So I've heard. I have no opinion of my own. We have a cabinet view of this, namely that we do not release traffic between Foreign Affairs and the Commission. This is simply to protect and improve the effectiveness of our actions in the diplomatic movement of our people abroad. It would damage the position of the Netherlands. I believe that the letter to which Mr Omtzigt is asking falls under this heading. So I have no reason to make an exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u58	A view of a WOB request has nothing to do with diplomatic traffic. This is not about complicated diplomatic traffic. The point is that the Commission asks: we want to make the documents public and do you agree? All other views put forward by the government, including those of the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance, will be sent to the Chamber. They are therefore not included in the diplomatic movement either. This view is not going to happen. Under Article 68 of the Constitution on the obligation to inform the Chamber, it is therefore my express request that this document be made available to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u59	I have heard Mr Omtzigt's request and have had it many times. He has already asked a lot of questions about it, but the answer remains the same. The cabinet has drawn a line in not revealing documents exchanged in diplomatic traffic, including documents and exchanges of views with the European Commission, in the belief that, if we do, we will in future have a much more difficult relationship with our international partners in Europe and beyond. They will then continue to consider the communication with Dutch diplomats, as it can be revealed. We have made that assessment on a broad basis, not specifically on this dossier, but as a general line. I cannot and will not deviate from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u60	I'm just gonna deviate from the number of interruptions. Mr. Omtzigt, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u61	Thank you. We know that difference of opinion, and I deliberately did not bring it up today. The government considers that traffic between the Commission and the government is covered by diplomatic secrecy. That is, with the organisation and the issues that the EU regulates, a view that we dispute, but well. However, this is an approach that has been actively called for in an administrative act, just as views are sought on green and white papers. They'll be published. If there are informal pulses, such as tonight on how Greece is doing, you can imagine that we are not asking to send everything with an cc to the Chamber. Here, however, an official opinion of the Dutch Government is requested on an official document. Doesn't it make sense for it to be given to the Chamber for inspection? The only exception in the law is if the interest of the State is at stake. The interest of the State is, I presume, not at stake in an opinion on a WOB request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u62	My answer doesn't change. We disagree on this. The cabinet has drawn a line in this and perseveres in it. Then I come to other questions about post-tax and post-tax payments. One of the reasons why payments to the European Union have deteriorated on balance is the ratification of the own resources decision. We are getting money back, but that has now been moved over a year line for the second time. The money was supposed to come in for two years this year, but it's been pushed through again. Mr Van Dijck asks why it is taking so long. I almost hear him say: take the money from Brussels in those countries and force them to pay it off. In line with his ideas, I would say that Brussels should not do that. There are ratification procedures in place in different countries. In some countries this takes longer and in others such a ratification process goes very quickly. That's annoying, especially if you get money back, but we're gonna have to wait and see. The money's moving through. We still get it, but it doesn't come in until next year. Mr Van Dijck also asked when he would get the overview of all the changes in these payments, which the Prime Minister promised. He says it's all gotten worse and worse, and sometimes we get money back. He could have seen that in an overview he's already had. This was included in the answers to the financial report of the Reich for 2014. That was the answer to question 23. There you will see a nice schedule, starting with the Millions Note 2014. That is the amount estimated at that time and thereafter all adjustments during the year up to and including the annual financial report 2014. So I refer to the comprehensive answer to question 23 in the annual financial report.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u63	Of course, I've seen that overview. However, all these supplementary budgets are not included. Last year we received eight supplementary budgets for our choices. I don't see the woods through the trees anymore. Then we get another 15 million back and then we have to pay another 200 million. That overview is the broad thrust, but it does not list how much we get back per supplementary budget. The amendment of the CBS of the 2013/2014 budget has not yet been incorporated. I would like to have a periodic review of all the money flows that go to Brussels and come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u64	I think Mr Van Dijk is bluffing a bit by saying that he has seen the overview, because the things he is asking for are in it. For example, I see it: fourth supplementary budget 2014, surplus spring forecast, the Netherlands is getting 165 million back. I see a few rules underneath it: aftertaxing own resources, the Netherlands has to pay 1.1 billion. So the different parts are in there. Perhaps I could give the piece to Mr Van Dijck in a moment. If he needs more details, we're gonna do our best. It is all public information, and I would be happy to be for the full benefit of Mr Van Dijck. I thought we'd already given the information, but then I'll give it to him in a moment and he can come back to it in second term, to indicate whether or not that information is sufficient for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u65	That's welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u66	And MPs never bluff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u67	No, we never bluff. Another question I had was about the budgetary system surrounding the return. We are now building an incidental windfall of 2.7 billion for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u68	For the own resources decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u69	For the own resources decision. Of course, that's a weird system. This year we have a setback of 1.8 billion and last year we had a setback of 0.9 billion and next year we have an occasional windfall. Is the budgetary system based on that? Shouldn't something change because it's so dubiously budgeted this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u70	Fortunately, this problem only occurs once every seven years. Following the adoption of the new Multiannual Financial Framework, the Own Resources Decision will be amended and should be ratified thereafter. So that is once every seven years, for which we should also be grateful. The problem of constantly supplementary budgets, sometimes many a year, is not connected with that. In any case, both lead to a messy picture. Again, I'm not gonna pretend here that we're gonna fix that quick. This is all extremely tough in Brussels. Then I have a few loose questions. Mr Krol spoke about the CPB and the ageing population. He said that ageing no longer leads to unsustainable public finances. That is true, although that is still surrounded by uncertainties. Think of the healthcare expenses that we hope will remain on this quiet path. This situation has, of course, been achieved by the government's implementation of a number of reforms. I have sometimes missed the support of Mr Krol's group, but he is nevertheless pleased with the outcome. That is how I understand his point. He then asked whether older people should not now share in the burden relief in a proportionate way. We are, of course, also looking at the development of the running power of older people in the autumn. We will, but we have indicated that if there is room for additional burden relief, it will be used as a priority to stimulate the labour market. Some older people are still at work and will therefore benefit directly from it. Other older people are no longer at work and will probably not get that part of the relief. The focus is on the labour market and on work. Mr Krol himself spoke about unemployment among the elderly. That's a real bottleneck. With regard to unemployment, Mr Van Dijck pointed out that he did not see the downward trend in the CBS figures. I think he's wrong. There is indeed a decreasing trend in the CBS figures. It shows that the unemployed labour force has declined from 674,000 in January of this year to 614,000 in May of this year. The seasonal adjusted unemployment rate also decreased between January and May.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u71	I am glad to be told that I have spoken about unemployment among the elderly, and I am referring in particular to the younger elderly, the people over the age of 45 who, when they become unemployed, will no longer be able to get a job. My question that was linked to it is what this cabinet will do about it. There have already been several plans to help young people to work, but I have not yet seen any real plans to help structurally older people to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u72	Although employment is attracting, Mr Krol is right. In particular, the long-term unemployment of older people still requires real attention, because it is extremely difficult for older people to return to the labour market. The sector plans, some of which have been negative, and the Action Plan 50+ is working on the tools to take measures specifically targeted at this target group in sectors and regions to help older people get back into the labour market. That is the answer to Mr Krol's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u73	Can you offer any prospects to those who are out of work and who have seen that, for example, there has been a youth ambassador? They still do not see that the cabinet is really committed to looking for work for older people over the age of 45.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u74	I told you which way we're gonna go. The stakes are there and the results are also coming, as the economy is attracting. There is and remains attention for this particular group, because it is precisely for this group that it is difficult to intervene again. Employers are the first to take on the younger unemployed or those who are just entering the labour market. It continues to call for attention to be given to giving the older unemployed a chance. Again, on Prinsjesdag, we will present very targeted measures to reduce the cost of labour on both the employers' and employees' sides. This will give further impetus to this. Both the CDA and 50PLUS have asked about the tax review. There's gonna be one. The scope, depth and width are further examined. We count on all your support and we wish ourselves courage. On Prinsjesdag we present more information about this. The focus remains on reducing the complexity of the system, the implementation problems for the Tax Administration and the employment and functioning of our labour market. As has been said, our aim is to reduce the burden of 5 billion. That must be possible, even within our own budgetary rules and agreements. Mr Omtzigt said that the failure should have been dealt with in the process of gas extraction. He has also tabled an amendment on the proceeds of gas extraction. He asked why no letter of amendment was sent to the Chamber. The honest answer is that this could have been done. The gas decision for 2015 came about after the Spring note and supplementary budgets had appeared. So we could have done that by letter of amendment. However, it was our intention to include it in the second supplementary budget. Doesn't really matter. There is no reason to doubt our intention because we have not incorporated it into the supplementary budget now before us. I don't think that's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u75	Perhaps I missed it, but what is your explicit opinion on the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u76	Can I come back to that in second term? I have not yet been able to look at the substance of the amendment; I have only seen that it is there. It is our preference to include this in the second supplementary budget, because it is really in no hurry. So that will be in the autumn. I will come back to this in the second term. Mr Omtzigt asked about the risks of low interest rates. The interest rate is low now, but what happens when it rises suddenly? We will deal with this in the Millions Note. We do not want to see a real passing on of different concrete scenarios. An increase in interest rates will probably not be on its own either. For example, it can be part of the strong attraction of the global economy. This could lead to an increase in interest rates internationally. So you really need to see it in the context of a scenario. The CPB pays attention to alternative developments of factors in uncertainty variants. It also looks at world trade and the price of oil. There are several factors, such as energy prices, interest rates and the state of the euro, which are currently favourable. Yes, it's true: what you currently benefit from can turn against you in the future. We'll get back to that in the Millions Note. The CPB also comes with uncertainty variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u77	Mr Koolmees has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u78	In order to avoid having to keep a second deadline, I would remind you of my question about the budget reserve, in particular about the setbacks in renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u79	Yes, several questions have been asked about that. I could go look in my papers, but I'm gonna take it out of my head. Yeah, it's true. The reservation for investments in renewable energy has financed other problems with a slide. That money will be put back in later years. It'll be back from 2021. In this sense, no money is lost for this purpose. We believe that the money is much more necessary in those years, whereas it is not being used at the moment. There was another category in which resources for renewable energy are not being used now. Here too, renewable energy resources, which are often raised with specific target charges, remain available for renewable energy. That is my promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u80	Thank you for this clear answer, but my question was more about the principle of budgetary reserves. We have budgetary reserves to put a fence on certain expenditure for which we have a purpose. The amount doesn't change. That's fine, but a trick is being pulled or, in order to avoid that negative word, put away with money to circumvent that reserve. Is that the point of such a reserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u81	No, the purpose of the reserve is to ensure that funds that are not yet used at some point remain available for that purpose. And that is the case here. In the first few years, the funds are not needed and, as far as I am concerned, they are simply available, just like other budgetary resources, to'slide funds' if they are fitable. You can also "slide" these funds, but they have to come back. This maintains the objective of the budgetary reserve: the money is intended to stimulate renewable energy. That's the crux.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u82	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a second deadline for some Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u83	Mr. Chairman. I was triggered by a remark from the Minister: we wish ourselves courage. I'd say, Minister, the helm has to be turned. I would take that as a guideline in drawing up the new budget. We will indicate on a few small points why we think it should be changed. Apparently there is a lot of space; the minister speaks of 5 billion to be given away to a certain group of people. But there's a lot more than that. I'd like to give that to the Minister. Reducing security is irresponsible; there is no more cuts in justice, says a PvdA member of the Chamber Jeroen Recourt. The thumbscrews have been turned so far, prisons have already been closed, justice and the DA's office turn in, I don't see any room anymore. The rack is out, also says VVD'er Ard van der Steur: I wouldn't know where to find money; new cuts are not justified; in the future money has to be added rather than removed. I got this from a storage article from the Algemeen Dagblad, which we kept neatly. I am tabling a motion on this subject, and I am, of course, counting on the support of the coalition groups. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is broad agreement that certain parts of the Ministry of Security and Justice are under great pressure;]] [[Whereas financial scope has been found for this budget by a structural reduction in the rates charged by the State Real Estate Company;]] [[calls on the Government to use the proceeds of this tariff reduction for the most deprived parts of the Ministry of Security and Justice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34210-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u84	Look, there's already an adhesion statement coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u85	I have a more clarifying question about the motion. In my understanding of the Spring Paper, this has exactly happened. The rates for the rent, for the many real estate of the Justice Department and for the prisons have been reduced, and the space created in this way has been used to support the prosecution and the setbacks. So in fact Mr Van Gerven is served at his beck and call. And if the cabinet proposal is there, we usually don't need a motion anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u86	That is not entirely true, because I understand from the Minister's reply that part of the task is to be solved. I quote from the answers given by the cabinet itself. That's why I'm tabling this motion. I understand Mr Nijboer's point. Of course, I've seen that in the state. However, I have read very clearly in the Minister's reply that he has used these resources and the windfall in the task. As far as we are concerned, that is not the intention. So we really think that these targets for justice should be over. Given the broad enthusiasm of the coalition, I assume that we can count on support for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u87	At the Justice Department, it is known that there have been quite some setbacks in some years. I just thought this was a nice way to fix this one. I would like to hear from the Minister whether that has gone differently than I have understood, but I think Mr Van Gerven is being served in the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u88	In any case, I can see that the mission is still there. So it wasn't completely brushed away. Then I'll continue with my speech. I've got something else. The PvdA said to Minister Blok: Hands off the rent allowance! Monasch says that the 250 million hole should not be removed from the Blok budget. There must be prayers at the other ministries, according to Mr Monasch. Mr Roald van der Linde then says that he actually thinks this is a sympathetic idea of Monasch. There is therefore once again broad agreement within the coalition parties. We're gonna help them with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that nearly 1 million households will not be able to live on in 2017 on a monthly basis;]] [[noting that the rent allowance is a targeted instrument that is increasingly used by tenants in a financial plight;]] [[calls on the government not to cut the rent surcharge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34210-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u89	Mr Krol will also table a motion on behalf of the SP on the VAT reduction for construction. That seems to us to be a very good proposal. I would like to hear from the Minister in the second instance an answer to my question in the debate on the childcare allowance. What are the effects on the employment rate of single mothers? Does he have any particular attention to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u90	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his clear answers at this time, during these undoubtedly busy days and weeks. I have some short points. The first concerns post-taxation. If there is a consultation from Brussels, we always get the consultation document. If we don't even get the consultation document, I think there's something wrong with providing information to the Chamber. I would ask the government to state why, through Article 68 of the Constitution, we should not have access to the consultation on public access to documents. Thank you for the commitment to come back to the concern and, together with the VWS Minister, to look at the situation. If the clearing fund, through which tens of billions go, does not contain approval of audit reports, we have a structural problem of accountability. That must be corrected, if only to have a clear view of what was going on. We are satisfied with the gas decision, but we believe that the budgetary system is such that if you take a decision, you have to incorporate the consequences into the budget. We therefore believe that the government should now deal with these consequences, because this leads to the best estimate of this year's deficit. It is therefore necessary to take account of 30 billion m of gas extraction. I would ask the government to change that, either with its own letter of amendment or by accepting our amendment and saying exactly what the amount is. I'm gonna be on the army. I understand, of course, that the army was cut back during the Rutte I cabinet. However, I would like to point out that there is also under-exhaustment in the defence sector this year and, at the same time, there are major structural problems surrounding the missions. I call for this to be handled with absolute care, particularly in view of the major challenges facing us at international level. There will be the extension of the mission in ISIS area and there will be a considerable number of missions. Looks like we're just physically exhausting our own army. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that there will be a passing on of what happens if interest rates get a little higher. I'm going to make a specific request on that. I am already pleased that the Minister has indicated that the maturity of the government loans has been slightly extended. That's what several parties in the Chamber have requested. I think that is very sensible and prudent. However, I would like to know whether there are sectors in the economy which, in the event of such a shock, are experiencing acute problems and then, of course, knocking on the door again. If that is the case, we should think about this in advance and see if we can make the Dutch economy more stable. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that interest rates are currently very low, inter alia due to the policies of the ECB;]] [[calls on the government to pass on the securities to the State, households, companies and pension funds of a sudden increase of the whole interest rate curve by 3% and its impact on the economy]] [[calls on the Government to make proposals, if necessary, to make the Dutch economy, including the state finances, more shock-resistant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34210-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u91	Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to the Minister. I understand that he has great difficulty in extending the reduced VAT rate for renovations. However, we consider such an extension to be extremely important, not least because it also allows many elderly people to adapt their homes so that they can stay at home for longer. However, there are many more reasons for such an extension. That's why I'm gonna try again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, until 1 July 2015, the reduced VAT rate for residential renovations and renovations is in force;]] [[Whereas the reduced VAT rate has proven to be beneficial for the construction and life-sustainable of homes and has led to positive economic, employment, sustainability and environmental impacts;]] [[Calls on the Government to re-establish the relevant reduced VAT rate from 6% until 31 December 2015;]] [[Invites the Government to submit to the 2016 Tax Plan a well-founded position on the desirability of continuing the reduced VAT rate after 31 December 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in recent years social rents have increased by an estimated 2% to 3% above inflation, which has put considerable pressure on affordable rents;]] [[Whereas housing corporations, as well as the members of the Housing Union, have now agreed by a large majority to a joint social lease agreement allowing rents to increase by an average of 1% per annum over inflation in the coming years;]] [[Considering also that this can make an important contribution to affordability of renting and maintaining purchasing power for people with reduced capacity, including many older people;]] [[calls on the Government, after passing on the social lease agreement, to present a cabinet position to the Chamber before Prinsjesdag, and to include, if possible, the results of the investigation into cheap and expensive housing, which Aedes and Woonbond have included in the lease agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34210-6]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34210-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u92	Mr. Chairman. I shall come back to a question from Mr Van Dijck. He asked about all the changes in payments to Europe. I referred him to the answer to question 23. That's what I gave him. I would also like to draw his attention to the answer to Question 24. That's what I can give him. There is an overview of all the DABS and the supplementary budgets running the year. The last letter to the Chamber on the 2016 EU budget also gave an overview of the 2015 supplementary budget and its impact on our national budget. We have it all ready, because Mr Van Dijck must leave the premises tonight with all the information provided. Mr Van Gerven still owes me an answer. He said first that the helm has to be turned. That does well on an election poster, but does not give me much information on the direction in which the helm should be turned. He also talked about giving away 5 billion. I have often had debates in which from left to right the Chamber was called for relief. Now it would be about "jubilation" or "giving" money or any other qualifications. I'm just surprised to see it. The cabinet will, of course, have a very focused policy on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u93	Mr Van Gerven, in the context of entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u94	We're not gonna figure that out tonight. We still have to see what it all turns out to be, because the tax plans are already largely in ruins, at least the VAT proposal. The SP is very disappointed that the reduction of labour costs is mainly helping a particular population. The SP is also in favour of reducing charges; see our electoral programme. We have made extensive proposals for this in the past. However, this proposal does not work well for older people, people who do not work and so on. We also note that, when it comes to the destruction of the welfare state that has taken place in recent years, it is also very good to see whether some repair work should be carried out there...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u95	Mr Van Gerven, before this interruption slowly passes into a third term, I would ask you to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u96	The point was, of course, that I was a little challenged and I wanted to explain to the Minister what we meant by "the helm must be turned."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u97	Thank you. On the cuts at V and J, I'll be right back to going through the motions. I will also come back to the request on the rent allowance, which is contained in a motion. Mr Omtzigt has come back to the question of consultation. He said it was a consultation document such as the reactions of the Dutch Government to a White Paper or a Commission Green Paper in a public consultation. All Member States, and indeed many social parties, can respond to this. That is a very different procedure from what we were talking about here. This was a WOB procedure at the European Commission. There has been a genuine contact between the Dutch representation in Brussels and the Commission in diplomatic matters, to hear our views on this. We have shared our views on the substance. This applies to all aspects of this post-taxation. We have shared all our substantive views, our commitment and so on with the Chamber over and over again. We only have reservations about releasing those documents. So I'm sticking to that point. Mr Omtzigt also drew attention to a particular problem in the defence sector. On the one hand, there is under-exhaustment. On the other hand, there are major bottlenecks as a result of these missions. That is a real point. In our reply to two motions for resolutions, that is not only the Van der Staaij motion, but also those of Mr Ten Broeke and Mr Servaes, who specifically dealt with bottlenecks arising from the many missions at Princess' Day. Mr Van Gerven still has a response to his point about single mothers. Or have I already given that reaction? He asked what the cabinet would do about it in relation to the child care allowance. Indeed, the net employment rate of single mothers has fallen more strongly in recent years than in non-single mothers. That is the degree of detail that has been looked at. This development is, of course, undesirable. I do not know whether the cuts in childcare are the cause of this drop in net labour participation. I don't know if that's been broken down so specifically. I said that the group of working single parents with low incomes would improve 9%. However, it appears to be 11%. I have misinformed Mr Van Gerven about this. This group is improving 11% in 2015. Shall I first deal with the amendment or the motions? I don't know what's customary. I shall first deal with the amendment. That is the amendment to item No. 5 by Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Schouten. The amendment aims to reduce revenue, the amount of revenue, with a view to the new extraction decision for 2015. The amount of revenue will then be reduced to the budget article, but I cannot so quickly check whether that is the correct amount. It is therefore not a matter of principle. It is our preference to do it just in the autumn. Then we'll do it very accurately and correctly. However, if Mr Omtzigt is committed to it, we can also look at whether it could now be done. I will then let Mr Omtzigt know so that he may be able to amend his amendment and make it correct. I will also let the Chamber know what our opinion is on the amendment. The way it is now, I cannot validate it and I have to discourage it, but I'm going to inform you if we could actually change it now. Otherwise, it would be my proposal to do it in the autumn. But let's see if we can do it now, because I don't have a problem with that. I will, of course, also have a word with EZ's colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u98	For my understanding, is the amendment intended to be put to the vote this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u99	Yes, because on Thursday we will be voting on the Navy Note. Then it must have been put to the vote. The room has figured out how much that could be. This was the best estimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u100	And the rest of the Chamber can agree to the procedure the Minister has just described, namely by note? The other groups will then be able to make a proper assessment in order to vote on it. I see nodding in agreement, I say on behalf of the report. I'd be happy to give the Minister the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u101	We're gonna try to do that neatly in the short time we have. Let's take a look at it. At the Van Gerven/Van Nispen motion in part No. 3 is a miraculous misunderstanding. Security and Justice is one of the major consumers of the National Real Estate Company. We have established that there is some margin in the rates of the Rijks Real Estate Company. Those rates have therefore been reduced for the next few years. I believe that in 2016 we are considering whether this could be done in a structural manner. In any case, we have made an appointment with the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. The rates have now been reduced, which is very much in favour of V and J. This money was partly used to remove the mandate, so the cuts in the coalition agreement that V and J were still hanging over their heads. That is very much in line with Mr Van Gerven's speech. I would add that there is no department that this finance minister will say can or should not be cut back. I have also taken note of the statements made by spokesmen who say: it is over; there can be no more cuts in our budget. But if all the spokesmen are going to say that in couples, we have a major problem in controlling budgetary discipline. There are no such departments. Each department has its own problems to solve. The same goes for V and J. Anyway, V and J have had a considerable advantage at the specific point in the rates of the National Real Estate Company, which have been reduced, and will have it again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u102	I understand that the Minister says that it was only partly used to correct the mission. I read his answer to question 80: It seems that 2016 and part of 2017 can also be spared. I am referring to the changed tariff structures of the State Real Estate Company. So 2015 and 2016 are apparently spared, but 2017 is not. The motion aims to completely clean out this whole task by renting the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u103	I can't promise you that right now. The motion states that the rates of the National Real Estate Company must be reduced structurally. That's a little too fast. We have agreed with the National Real Estate Company that in 2015 and 2016 the official lodge is nodded yes the rates will be reduced. After that, it will be considered whether this can be structural. We must not, of course, ensure that all kinds of problems are left behind in the National Real Estate Company. If the motion already states that this must be structural, I say that this cannot yet be done and that this is going too fast. We have now reduced the rates for the current year and next year. That's very nice for a number of departments that have a lot of buildings. V and J are part of it. Whether that can be extended to the future, we'll look at it later. I need the motion in part no. 3 on that ground. In the Van Gerven/Karabulut motion to item No. 4 the government is asked not to cut the rent surcharge. I can't promise that right now. As I said, we are looking at ways of reducing exceedances or compensating them in the light of the purchasing power debate in August, but I cannot give any guarantees on this point. The motion could be held. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. By the way, there is no cover for this motion. After all, there is an overrun. If the SP says that savings should not be made on the rent payment, it should also say where the money is found. I appreciate that the SP also remains financially sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u104	We have an active minister, who can do a lot. So we ask him two things. Does he agree with the principle? If there is an overrun in the estimates, for example in the case of the mortgage interest rate deduction, it is not necessarily passed on to the person who has a mortgage. Well, that's being done, because of the system, with the tenants. That is a fundamental error. The request to the Minister is to seek cover on the left or right and not to have it cut down on Minister Blok's budget, because it really is almost the whole budget and it is therefore difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u105	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u106	Nowhere is it written that the Chamber should make covered proposals, but we do have a good tradition in this house. I'm very attached to that, too. If, for example, Mr Van Gerven were to propose extending the mortgage interest rate deduction further, I would also ask him for cover, because that also costs money. In that sense, I do not care whether it is an expenditure or a relief. And the cover's missing. So I really have to discourage the motion, just for that reason. In the motion tabled by Mr Omtzigt in part No. 5 the government is asked to pass on one isolated fact, namely a possible sudden increase in the interest rate curve by 3%, indicating what that means for the Dutch economy and state finances. As far as the state finances are concerned, we know that 1% of additional annual interest charges cost about 0.5 billion. So if the interest rate on the sovereign debt was 1% higher over the whole year than estimated, it would cost 0.5 billion. We know that. Furthermore, last year in the shock test we did last year, we paid attention to an interest shock, as part of a scenario, because such a development is never on its own, as I said. We are also going to pay attention in the Millions Note to low interest rates and their risks to the economy. We also pursue policies to make the Netherlands and the Dutch economy more shock-resistant. One of the biggest problems is still the long balance sheets of households. I will not discuss Mr Knot's proposal to further reduce the LTV in the future with the Chamber, but that is the type of topic you will find. Unfortunately, I have to advise against this motion, because we have really done a lot on this point, especially last year, with the shock test. I'd like to refer to that. More generally or, if you like, qualitatively, we come back to the impact of low interest rates on our economy, financial institutions and government. We'll do that in the Millions Note next year. But as this motion has been formulated, I must, unfortunately, discourage her. I come to Mr Krol's and Mr Van Gerven's motion for a resolution. 6, which is about the VAT rate. We really disagree on that. There is a VAT rate for this construction work. This has been temporarily reduced, at a time when the sector has been extremely difficult to stimulate. Now the construction industry is attracting a lot. A temporary measure only works if it is truly temporary. This is a recurring discussion. You always see in this kind of temporary reductions that they have to be extended again, and again, and again. It only has effect if you do it temporarily. Then you pull something off, then you stimulate. Our assessment is that, as we stand now, that measure is no longer necessary. And that aside from the fact that coverage is missing here too. So I'm going to have to make the motion in part no. 6 dissuaded. I'll come to the motion in part No. 7 of Mr Krol. It's a lot of lyrics. I'm trying to figure it out. It says: before Prinsjesdag offer a cabinet position. The housing corporations and the Housing Association have signed a social lease agreement. In this motion, the government is invited to present a position on this issue and to respond specifically to an investigation into "cheap," "expensive" and "dwelling." I know that Minister Blok is very much concerned with this issue at the moment, and that he has also spoken to the parties mentioned in it. So that cabinet response is coming. I can't promise that that will happen before Prince's Day. I see no major objection to this motion, but in fact it is superfluous because there is a reaction on the way. Let me ask my officials: is this response for Prince's Day planned or earlier? It'll be on Prince's Day. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but the motion is superfluous, so I say in all honesty.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u107	If Mr Krol should be allowed to do something about the motion now, then he should come and say it. That's not the case, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u108	I had five motions, wasn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u110	Then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u111	Then... Mr Van Gerven would like to ask you a question. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u112	Yeah, just for the record, because I fell in here tonight. Mr Omtzit and Mr Schouten's amendment calls for a reduction of 1.6 billion in the amount of revenue. How is that covered?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u113	These are gas benefits and they are subject to separate budgetary rules. They are outside the box and therefore do not need to be offset by rising revenue on another item. Gas benefits are placed outside the frameworks. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u114	I just wanted to say that there is no cover for this either. So it's up to the Minister to judge differently if he wants to.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u115	Well, if I allow myself too much freedom, I'm really gonna get the finance spokesmen on my neck. Those who attach importance to budgetary discipline and budgetary rules. For gas benefits, a separate rule is really included in the budgetary rules. That doesn't apply to your category, the rent allowance. I did not find a separate budget rule for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-tweedekamer-11.u116	That brings us to the end of the second term on the part of the cabinet. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the answers he has given and for the time he has wanted to come to the Chamber. On Thursday we shall be voting on the motions, on the amendment and on the supplementary budget.
