ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. Crime can't pay off. That's what I think we're quick to agree on. Almost all crime is about money. The fight against crime must also be much more about money. The SP has proposed this many times, but in practice it is still not enough. The SP has commissioned an investigation into the cooperation between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Tax Administration. To what extent is effective cooperation in practice between these parties to deprive or rob money from criminals? What does the investigation of Financial Detective Rob van Laar show? Crime still pays off. The necessary cooperation is not there or hardly there. In practice, we are actually working completely alongside each other. The Public Prosecutor's Office very often fails to involve the Tax Administration early in the criminal justice process, estimated in 80% to 90% of cases. This lack of cooperation means that the government misses millions of euros. Those millions of euros will therefore remain in the hands of criminals. The SP thinks this is incredibly bad. Unacceptable. How is this possible, how is this possible? And how is the Minister going to ensure that such cooperation and coordination between the Public Prosecutor and the Tax Office will take place in every case of withdrawal? Can he promise that criminal money will be taken more effectively, so crime no longer pays off?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr van Nispen not only for asking this question, but also for his involvement in the creation of Mr Van Laar's thesis, for whom we are now, quite rightly, setting up a monument in the Acts in a number of areas. For the sake of completeness, I should also like to thank Mrs Neppérus and Mr Recourt, who have also supported the creation of this thesis. Mr Van Laar had a sufficient thesis for his thesis, so there was great satisfaction at the police academy, for which the thesis was written. And rightly so. Crime doesn't pay off. The ambition of this cabinet is therefore to ensure that criminal property is taken away as effectively as possible and as far as possible. We do that criminally, fiscally, administratively and civilly. This is increasingly being done jointly by the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other enforcement partners, such as the Public Administration and the Tax Administration. These parties indicate that cooperation is improving. This applies both nationally, including through consultation between the functional parquet, the Tax Office and the FIOD, as well as locally in so-called Regional Information and Expertise Centres. That cooperation is complex. Some of the recommendations made by Mr Van Laar in his thesis have now been addressed. I'll come back to that in a minute. A number of other recommendations have not yet been implemented, but they are also being taken into account. The answer to Mr Van Nispen's question is therefore yes, this thesis will once again give the parties concerned the opportunity to look at further improvements in cooperation. The good news is that after the publication of the thesis on 1 July 2015, a new protocol was signed between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Tax Administration. It further strengthens cooperation between the Public Prosecutor and the Tax Administration, focusing in particular on the issues of withdrawal. Furthermore, in general terms, proposals that can contribute to the removal of criminal assets are always accepted with a positive basis. That is certainly true when it comes to proposals in a thesis for which someone has received a sufficient degree from the police academy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	In the case of the settlement with the criminal Cees H., one of the hot issues was the fact that the settlement agreement stated that the Tax Administration would be kept out of everything. The Chamber and the whole of society were ashamed of this at the time. The amazing thing now is that in practice it seems to be happening much more often that the Tax Administration is kept out of it and that it is a bit everyone for themselves. The state's attorney's office is trying to take independent money from criminals. That's what it does on its own, because it doesn't involve the tax authorities. At the end, that happens sometimes. Then it is often too late, with the criminal smiling third. The worst thing is that 18 years ago agreements were made on this subject. However, the rules which require cooperation are not respected in practice. The Minister is right to say that it is a good thesis and that the recommendations are being adopted and implemented, but how is it possible for eighteen years that what was agreed did not happen? Is that gonna happen now? What makes it possible now? Moreover, the interviews conducted in the context of the thesis are still very recent. So it's a little complicated to believe that everything will be better from today on. After all, the talks show that there are prosecutors who don't even know the arrangements. They don't know that they have to coordinate their appointments with the IRS. How is the Minister going to ensure, in concrete terms, that, as of today, in the event of withdrawals from €5000, the standard is aligned with the Tax Administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	It seems to me appropriate not to go into the issue of Cees H, as we will soon have the report of the Oosting Committee. We will then be able to debate this much more extensively and with greater depth. I do not recognize Mr Van Nispen's gloomy image. Of course, cooperation has been going on between the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Tax Office and the FIOD for a long time. As I indicated in the first period of my reply, this does not mean that it can't be done any better; this thesis is an important part of it. We signed a protocol in July. We have the designation for the D.A.'s office, which requires consultation with the IRS. So this is "work in progress." It's definitely not ready and it can always be better. However, my assessment is that we are on the right track and that Mr Van Laar's thesis, partly thanks to the support of the Members of Parliament concerned, is certainly also an opportunity to look at further improvements in cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister says we can do better. I think that's a solid understatement. We've had these appointments for a long time. They're on paper, so that's not the problem. That's not the problem for a long time. The question is, in particular, how it can be changed in practice, so that every prosecutor, every financial detective and every tax authority inspector really knows that crime is about money and that it must also be about money in the fight against crime. That is of the utmost importance. So it is not the rules on paper that we already have, but above all cooperation in practice. Then I have another supplementary question. Is it perhaps because of the way we've arranged it now? The Minister's objective is to give to the Public Prosecutor's Office: you must take EUR 100 million this year. Does that mean that there might be some kind of competition? Does the Public Prosecutor's Office consider the Tax Administration to be a threat to money so that it cannot be credited to the purpose of the Public Prosecutor's Office rather than to seek cooperation? Could that be one of the causes or one of the explanations? Shouldn't we do something more about that so that we, as one government, take full money from criminals? Surely the goal must be to take away all the money that has been obtained by crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr Van Nispen is asking a good question. However, my image is different. My picture is that in most cases where criminal money is found, the most effective and efficient way of taking it is constantly being looked at. In many cases, it's through the IRS. In some cases, this is through the FIOD and in some other cases through the Public Prosecutor's Office or one of the other agencies. This is particularly true because the Public Prosecutor's Office always needs a court order in order to be able to collect an amount, whereas the Tax Office can be deprived of that amount before it can be taken away, after which a procedure is followed. So very often the route through the Tax Administration is more efficient and faster. Rather, I have the impression that the cooperation and the end justify the means rather than the other way around and that everyone is on their own island, as Mr Van Nispen says. However, I will not fail to highlight Mr Van Nispen's concern in a subsequent discussion with the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	Previously, on behalf of the VVD Group, I asked written questions on the subject of taking away criminal property. I asked the Minister about the possibility of creating a fund filled with criminal assets, from which the criminals can be dealt with even harder. For example, you can use that fund to fund experts. I would like to receive the Minister's undertaking that, before the budget debate on V and J in mid-November, he will send to the Chamber a list of the bottlenecks concerning the budgetary system and the relationship between V and J and, for example, the Ministry of Finance. Can the Minister take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	I can take care of that, of course, and I'm happy to. In a way, that will be a bit of a repetition of the answers I have already given to Mr Van Oosten to previous questions. It is an idea also presented by the so-called "region mayors." I regularly speak to these mayors in the context of what used to be called the Article 19 consultation and what is now called the national consultation police and security. They made that proposal, too. My colleague from Finance and I have looked into and found that the business case behind it was not strong enough to create such a fund. However, we are still discussing whether or not we can in some way reach a fund based on a business case that we formulate ourselves. I will take this into account in the letter on the budget promised to the Chamber. I hope to be able to send that letter to the Chamber a week before the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	I hear the Minister say it's rather complex. I wonder. I challenge the Minister to explain what that complexity is about. It is about wrong money, which must be taken from the left or right. If the D.A. has a good criminal case, the judge can do it. If you can't do that, you can impose a tax charge.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	An example of the complexity is why I have announced a new bill to improve the taking of money from money laundering. As a result of a number of statements made by, among others, the Supreme Court, it is simply finding money from which no one can explain where it comes from not enough to take that money on the basis of the money laundering article. It is a very simple example of a legally complex problem that we are going to solve by means of legislation, because we want to achieve precisely that objective that Mr Oskam considers so important, namely that every euro we encounter in criminal money is taken away as soon as possible because crime is not allowed to pay.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is clear that the Chamber agrees with the Minister and the Minister that criminal money must be taken away. We have talked about it many times. Mr Van Nispen was right to draw attention to it in connection with the thesis, because it is not yet optimal. I would like to give these oral questions an extra push by asking the Minister if he would like to inform the Chamber about progress. Where are the bottlenecks and how can this end better? We call attention to this time and time again. We will not go into the substance of the Cees H case, but this has already resulted in a protocol between the Public Prosecutor and the Tax Office. Time and time again, however, the practice turns out to be very uncomfortable. Will the Minister inform us of progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	Of course I will. This gives me the opportunity to thank Mr Recourt for his involvement in the thesis, for which he is also rightly thanked in the foreword of the thesis.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-11-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you for your answers, thank you for the many commitments made in this Question Time and thank you for coming to the Chamber.
