ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. Since 2011, due to the complexity and sensitivity of the subject of "carriage," little has been done from the cabinet. That is why I have often put the subject on the agenda together with other colleagues. Thanks to this arrangement, a state commission has been set up to investigate whether surrogacy should be governed by law. The committee will provide answers to complex ethical questions. Is there a right to have children? To what extent should the government facilitate or limit wishing parents in their child desires? What are the interests of the unborn children? The Cabinet understandably does not intend to make any legislative and policy changes on surrogacy until the State Commission comes forward with its findings in the spring of 2016. I requested this VAO to discuss two points. The first point is the prosecution's action against commercial surrogacy. The cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber on 13 April. A motion I wanted to table on that matter has therefore become superfluous. In other words, I was very pleased with that commitment. However, there remains a point. This concerns in particular commercial surrogacy and exploitation of women in poor countries who are unable to stand up for themselves and are often used as breeding machines. In view of this category of women in poor countries, I will table the next motion together with Mr Van der Staaij. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the provisions of the Criminal Code are inadequate to adequately address illegal commercial surrogacy;]] [[whereas the National Rapporteur advises the Dutch authorities in his report to prevent the use of surrogates from countries where their rights are not properly guaranteed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and, if so, how we can address this point of departure and to what extent it is necessary to strengthen criminal provisions on surrogacy and trafficking in human beings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arib and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28638-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. An awful documentary prompted me to speak again about surrogacy and to keep this VAO. It took a while, also because we wanted to look at developments. The motion that has just been tabled will certainly also be supported by the CDA Group. I do have a supplementary question for the Minister concerning the commitment that this distressing issue would also be explicitly addressed in the JHA Council. Any word on that by now? Indeed, the Minister has promised to consider whether the link between trafficking in human beings and commercial surrogacy in the European context could also be better addressed. We had a Secretary of State on this dossier earlier who put it a little away from the committee and was not very attached to it. I ask this Minister to draw this issue to himself and make a difference at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion, but I do have a question. In the letter from the Minister of 13 April last, I read that the prosecution of illegal surrogacy does not consider it appropriate. That's one sentence. How exactly should our group interpret this sentence? Are signals not being followed or are there just few signals and is there therefore no need for intensification? In view of the importance of the subject, I attach particular importance to an explanation of that sentence by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. It has been quite a while since we had a general discussion with the then Secretary of State for Justice on this subject. A few months later, we received a letter in which a number of commitments were also made. Thank you for that. Today's debate, of course, is not intended to pick up what we discussed at the time. This debate is intended to lay down in a number of motions the area in which we still need a certain tightening up, knowing that a state committee is in the process of doing so. That was also reflected in the previous debate. It therefore requires patience on the part of the Chamber to await its outcome. At that time, however, almost everyone felt that we should not sit still until then. We can expect that what is now prohibited will also be dealt with. We should not be involved in practices that are really unacceptable, even abroad. That remains the principle, however the state committee will judge. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is generally recognised that surrogacy abroad poses major risks;]] [[Considers that in practice the risk of coercion and exploitation of women in countries such as India and Ukraine is very high;]] [[calls on the Government, in its policy and information provision, to explicitly rely on the discouragement of surrogacy from countries where there are insufficient legal guarantees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the enhanced provision of information made it clear that it is not allowed to advertise via websites to stimulate supply and demand on surrogacy and, for example, to make public through social media that a surrogate is sought;]] [[calls on the Government to promote active detection and prosecution where there are indications of violations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers and Mr Arib. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28638-135]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Segers and Mr Arib. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28638-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u5	I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Members of Parliament for their comments and also for the appreciation expressed in their comments on the letter I sent on 13 April. The special thing about that letter is, of course, that I sent it as a result of a general consultation that I was not part of. I was not in my previous position, but of course I wasn't as a ruler, because I wasn't at the time. That letter enabled me to look into the subject. This is still unrelated to the immediate emotion you have on the subject when you imagine that a woman in a dependent position, wherever in the world, is forced to bear and bear a child for another person and should then give it up, because agreements have been made on this, which I believe is also the essence of the documentary to which Mrs Van Toorenburg referred. Then you have no choice but to say that this is not what we want. The other side of the story is that there are many imaginable situations where it could and also takes place in a very harmonious, sensible and mature way. This can be done in the Netherlands, for example, by making children in a highly technological way... How do I say this neatly, Mr President, I am not getting out...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u7	Made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u8	...made, children are made. Thank you, Chairman.......................................................................................................................................................... Parents who could not have a child before can now have it in a very harmonious situation and on the basis of good, sensible agreements. The tricky thing about this subject is that we have to try to find a balance. On the one hand, there is our feeling that any form of exploitation should not be allowed. I fully agree with the Chamber. That is also human trafficking, by the way. That is a serious offence and one of the priorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, even when it comes to surrogacy. On the other hand, we must also remain realistic and look at the situations where things can go well. That can, I say to the author of one of the amendments, theoretically also be Ukraine or India. It could just be good there. It could be wise there, too. But it can't be wise there either. This is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the local authorities in those countries. As I have said before, the Netherlands does not accept responsibility for the detection and prosecution of crimes in other countries of the world. We are looking at what we can do from the Netherlands to play a role in relation to these crimes. One question I had when I had to read on this subject was: how serious is it? How often does this happen? Are we talking about a very big problem that we have kept under the radar and that we do not want to see? Or is there really not a very big problem on the basis of the facts, but it is very serious when it arises? The figures are quite insightful as far as we have them. Fifteen passport applications have been made in the last two years for children who have come into the world via a surrogate mother. These were mainly applications for India, the United States and South Africa. There have been six cases in the last five years, in which a court tried to have a child of a foreign surrogate travel to the Netherlands because this had been refused. The six cases, the six interim proceedings, were brought because they were not allowed to do so. The judge has granted access to the child in four cases. The Children's Protection Board conducted twelve investigations in 2012, nineteen in 2013 and five in 2014 on surrogacy. The question was: is this a problematic situation? The IND reports that there were only two cases, as far as they could be traced, in which a child's admission was contrary to Dutch public order. Eighteen children were born via altechnological surrogacy in the Netherlands. A suspect has been prosecuted and convicted twice since 1 January 1996 in connection with the promotion of surrogacy, so that is not so often. The police have reported that she has known five cases of surrogacy since 2011. Many corps have not responded at all because there are probably no known cases at all. An older report "The House of Representatives" also shows that there is no structural commercial surrogacy in the Netherlands. That leads to the next line of thought. If there is an error, it is serious, but all the indications that we have show that we are not talking about a major social failure, which does not mean that we can sleep peacefully, such as trafficking in human beings, smuggling or exploitation, sexually or in the field of labour. These abuses do exist in the Netherlands. In motions for resolutions, I am called upon to make this a top priority; I am not often allowed to say that in my communication. Those motions state that we must ask the Public Prosecutor to do extra work on this, despite all the indications that attention is being paid to it. I understand the intentions of the Members who are asking for this, but I say in all honesty and openness that I am not going to do so. I believe that we need to focus our energies on what is most needed, despite the feelings we have on this issue. If there is a combination of criminal law factors, I say in reply to Mr Van Wijngaarden's question, so if it is a combination of trafficking in human beings and surrogacy, or falsehood in writing and surrogacy, which can easily occur, the public prosecutor will of course take action on the basis of the principle of opportunity. That's what we can expect from the D.A.'s office, and that's what I'm gonna ask the D.A.'s office. That doesn't mean, however, that I'm going to use people from the D.A.'s office or the National Police to actively search for this. That does not mean that I make it a priority when a parent couple from Alphen aan den Rijn asks their friends by e-mail if they know someone who can be their wish-parent, which is strictly contrary to the law. This is different when a commercial company opens and writes a website: report here for commercial surrogacy; we arrange a surrogate for you in India or other countries. This is, of course, being looked at and dealt with, as this is directly covered by a legal ban. However, I do not think that we should say, on the basis of one documentary and the figures we know, that there is a serious problem that immediately deserves the attention of all our investigative bodies in all its facets. If it occurs and it is reported, then of course there must be research. I'll make that deal with the D.A. and the National Police. In her motion in part No. 134 Mrs Arib considers that the provisions of the Criminal Code are inadequate in order to adequately address illegal commercial surrogacy. In principle, on the basis of the report by the National Rapporteur, I would agree with that consideration if it were not to be established that an adequate approach to commercial surrogacy should mainly take place abroad. Our legislation has no effect on that in principle, because the crime is committed in Ukraine or India. In addition, the State Committee on Parenthood will express itself on this subject. I propose that Mrs Arib hold her motion until then. I intend to include these aspects in my cabinet response to the report of the State Committee. I therefore ask Mrs Arib whether she is prepared to hold this motion. If she does not, I think the motion is premature and I must advise her against it, although I understand Mrs Arib's intention very well, partly in relation to the comments made by the National Rapporteur. For this reason, I will involve this aspect in the cabinet response to the opinion of the State Committee, but I think it is too early. If the motion is not stopped, I advise her; if she is arrested, I will take the challenge to satisfy Mrs Arib in the cabinet response. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the commitment of the former State Secretary to raise the question of surrogacy at European level. This will be done at the next opportunity. In any case, I shall begin with the official level, namely the meeting of the informal expert group on the rights of the child. It will take place later this month and this theme will be taken up at that meeting. In addition, it is good news that the General Assembly of the Hague Conference on Private International Law decided to set up an expert group in early 2016 to further explore the possibility and desirability of a multilateral instrument in this area. So it's being picked up on both sides. The Netherlands is, of course, involved in this. I hope that I have answered the question sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u9	I see that Mrs Arib wishes to put a question on the motion she has tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u10	The Minister has asked me an explicit question. I choose to take and involve the motion in the cabinet response at the time the report has appeared. So I'd like to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u11	At the request of Mrs Arib, I propose her motion (28638, No. 134). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u12	I have already answered Mr Van Wijngaarden's question. If there are additional offences in relation to surrogacy, such as human robbery, trafficking in human beings or forgery in writing, the Public Prosecutor's Office considers prosecution to be appropriate. Then that prosecution will take place. Then the facts will also be caught. I refer to the second paragraph of page 3 of the letter. Mr Van Wijngaarden will see the word "top priority" in the next paragraph. That'll be one of the last times he reads that in a letter with my signature underneath. This is another top priority that I have appointed. Then I come to the motions by Mr Van der Staaij, who have been signed by Mr Arib and Mr Segers. In fact, I have already responded to this in my introductory speech. I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij that there is a risk of coercion and exploitation in countries such as India and Ukraine. For this reason and also in the context of the general consultation, a text has been included on national government.nl which I have also submitted to the Chamber for agreement and possible suggestions. If Mr Van der Staaij wishes to amend that text, I will be happy to take care of it. That does not have to be done by means of a motion, but it can simply be arranged informally. It is really intended to ensure that this text meets the needs of the Chamber. This is in line with the operative part of the motion in which the government is called upon to take the policy as an explicit principle of discouragement of surrogacy from those countries where there is commercial surrogacy or exploitation. If Mr Van der Staaij says with his motion that surrogacy should be discouraged from all countries where there is a risk of exploitation, then I think that motion goes too far. This can also be the case in the Netherlands. In theory, someone in the Netherlands may also feel forced to be a wish or surrogate because of a very poor economic position. I therefore think that the motion goes too far in this respect. Those 15 cases that we know of, where India and South Africa are frequent, do not necessarily all concern a wrong situation. In fact, they probably do not concern a wrong situation at all. Then there is the question: what are we doing with the United States? Is that country subject to the motion or not? When I look at the nature, seriousness and extent of the problem, I think the motion goes a little too far. I am very curious to see how Mr Van der Staaij looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u13	Risks can be on business anytime, anywhere. I fully agree with the Minister. That is why the operative part of this motion explicitly refers to 'discouragement of surrogacy from countries where there are insufficient legal guarantees'. If we know that there is a great risk of forced surrogacy in a country, then we should not close our eyes to that. For example, this can be done in India, says the National Rapporteur. We shouldn't want that. This must also be taken into account in policy. Or we should also try to get better legal guarantees there. However, it cannot be said that it is a risky country, but let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u14	That is why I asked Mr Van der Staaij how to deal with America. I can well imagine that there are areas in America, and even neighbourhoods in some major cities, where the position of the women in question is not much better than that of the women in India, Ukraine or South Africa, but where the legal guarantees are well in place. I am therefore much more in favour of ensuring that anyone who cooperates in this is fully willing and that the circumstances are good. That's also on national government.nl. I think that is much better in the individual case than that we are going to warn in a general sense, when I do not know which country I should exclude. There is always a risk of a potential surrogate being in such a position that she should not have to go surrogate. There's my serious problem with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u15	I understand the point, but the Hague Adoption Treaty, for example, states that countries must meet certain minimum requirements in the case of cross-border adoption. This is not just a law, but it also includes an appropriate supervisory mechanism. Only then can we be positive about it and rely on it, even though there are always risks that those are countries that we can connect with. With this motion, I would like to see the same approach taken with regard to surrogacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u16	I must also point out to Mr van der Staaij that one of the methods of perfecting surrogacy is adoption. This means that surrogacy from countries with which we do not have adoption relationships is not possible at all. So that guarantee is already there along those lines. After all, from countries with which we do not have adoption relationships, no children are adopted, so neither are surrogate children. For this reason, what Mr Van der Staaij is trying to achieve with this motion is not, in my opinion, the problem that we are dealing with, because we have already reduced the problem to a large extent by means of the adoption problem. Then we will only have the situation in which recognition is concerned. It's possible. Then I think it is more important to say to people 'take up your individual responsibility, make sure you are sure that it is okay or not, and if there are indications of trafficking in human beings or whatever we are doing' then we are suddenly going to rule out an entire country. On the other hand, perhaps we can do people there a real pleasure to greatly improve their economic position by something they may find very beautiful and valuable, because there is also a genuine possibility that people really want to allow Western couples to have their own child.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u17	Finally, the motion is also inspired by what the national rapporteur has said, namely that you should ask yourself whether you want to participate in surrogacy from countries where there are major risks of forced practices. This motion speaks not only of the link to surrogacy from countries where there are insufficient legal guarantees but also of discouragement. I'm not talking about prohibitions or anything. Individual responsibility remains, but discouragement is the least you can expect from the government in relation to countries where things are not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u18	If I may interpret the motion in such a way that Mr Van der Staaij means to explain it in such a way that with the existing channels we have, such as national government.nl, we change the text in such a way that we warn people about individual cases from some countries where we are not sure whether the guarantees there are good enough nationwide, then I will leave the judgment on the motion to your Chamber. But if Mr Van der Staaij says: no, I really think that there should be discouragement of surrogacy under all circumstances because the countries may not have sufficient guarantees, then the motion goes too far for me and I must advise against it. So let me ask Mr Van der Staaij whether he can live with the interpretation of the motion I have given.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u19	Frankly, I find the text of the motion clearer than the Minister's interpretation, so that is equally difficult. I would like to say to the letter of the text that I wish to refer it to the Chamber in this way. If there is a majority in favour of this, then we could then think about how to implement it. There are also a number of possible variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u20	That's exactly the point. If the letter of the motion is requested by Mr Van der Staaij, then the motion really goes too far for me because I think that it wrongly ignores that, even in countries where there may be too few legal safeguards in general, there may be too few legal safeguards in general, which are fine because people are simply self-employed to help couples with their children's desires in a way that is different, perhaps very far-reaching to us, but possibly acceptable to them. Then the motion really goes too far for me and I must also discourage it. However, I would like to add that this does not affect the intentions I have expressed earlier on how carefully we, as a government, want to provide information on this issue. Then I come to the final motion by Mr Van der Staaij, who surprised me somewhat. The operative part of the motion is: invites the government to promote active detection and prosecution where there are indications of violations. That is not as sharp as I know Mr Van der Staaij. Firstly, I do not recognise the SGP in the motion because it seeks to undermine the public prosecutor's opportunity principle. Secondly, there must be a violation. We all know that speeding is an offence, but trafficking in human beings, exploitation of people, is a crime. I'd at least think it would be a felony. But in both cases, even if "crime" is mentioned, this motion affects the opportunity principle of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I also think with the commitment I just made, including in the letter of 13 April, that it is sufficiently clear how I think the Public Prosecutor should prioritise. For this reason, I would like to suggest to Mr Van der Staaij that the motion, heard the Minister's reaction, be withdrawn. If not, I'll advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u21	The purpose of this motion is not to undermine the principle of opportunity. Nor is it intended to make it a top priority. With the motion we want to ensure that there is no tolerance policy in this area. That is the essence of the motion. Let's not say it's not all that important. I do not want it to be said: it is in the law, but we do not have to implement it in practice. The thrust of this motion is nothing more and nothing less. I would like to admit that this is a legal matter. I used the word "infringes" more generally. If you violate such a provision, it is a crime in the legal sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u22	I appreciate the gift of the word, which Mr Van der Staaij also demonstrates here. I've been enjoying it for years. I'm doing that again today. I understand the message Mr van der Staaij wishes to send, but I must say that I am committed to the letter I have written. I really want to leave it to the state's attorney's office. Serious crimes must be prosecuted. That's what's gonna happen. However, I believe that the principle of opportunity should continue to apply to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I gave the example of wishing parents who send an e-mail to their friends asking: who knows someone who might want to help us? Strictly speaking, they shouldn't be allowed to do that under the law, but I really don't think the D.A. should act in such cases. It is precisely for this that we have the principle of opportunity. For that reason, I will have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u23	Before the debate is closed, I would like to say the following. The Minister asked me at the beginning of his speech to help him find a word. I mentioned a word I later thought: that is actually not the right word at all. A baby is not "made." Probably a fertilization is being carried out and a child develops in the mother.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-09-02-tweedekamer-6.u24	This Tuesday we shall be voting on the motions tabled.
