ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u1	Mr. Chairman. It can happen to you in the Netherlands. You're gonna get a traffic ticket. Stupid, of course. That should never have happened. You're willing to pay the fine, but it's so high you can't pay it all at once. What do you do? You call the CJIB and you say, "Sorry, the fine is so high; you can't pay now. Can I have a payment arrangement?" Instead of the CJIB saying "yes, that's good, we're gonna take care of it," the CJIB just increases the fines. They're gonna come up so the cops are gonna stand at your door, take you away and lock you up like a real criminal. Hostages we call that. As a result, men and women often lose their jobs and women are often pulled away from their children. It only costs the State money, because a detention place costs a lot of money. If someone's gone out again and lost their job, he still can't pay that fine. Take Angela now. She told in the program De Monitor that she was imprisoned for two months when she was pregnant with her first child. The child was born too early, possibly because of too much stress. Incarceration of pregnant women therefore entails unacceptable health risks. Is the Secretary of State listening to the call from the police unions asking them to stop holding pregnant women hostage? At the request of the SP Group, there will now be a payment scheme for people who want to pay but cannot pay. It is of course very nice that that law will be passed, but in the meantime there are a lot of people who are e-mailing me every week who cannot use that law. There is also a pilot at the insistence of the SP Group. That is very nice, but expand the pilot so that anyone who wants to pay, but cannot pay, can also participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. I object to the verdict: it could happen to you. Let me give you a description of how things are going before you're taken hostage in the Netherlands. I agree with Mrs Kooiman that we have not taken the measures to reduce the number of hostages for nothing. But you have to break the law first, after which you get a fine that you don't pay for a very long time, when you've had a lot of chances for that. With the exception of older cases, we now have extended possibilities to do so by means of a regulation. However, there is always a category of people who can pay, but does not want to. Then you've been two years. I can't just say we're gonna go hostage. That's the last resort. A judge's gonna see if that's okay first. The D.A.'s gonna take a hostage trial and a judge will decide if it's okay. There is no such problem in men, but it is possible in women that a woman with a fine is now found to be pregnant. We do not know that two years after the imposition of a fine, when the claim is applied for and issued by a court. The police may be wondering on the spot if this is what they should do. She can ask the D.A. that question and decide not to do anything on the basis of that situation. If there is a hostage situation, a medical intake will take place at the PI. I cannot say that in the Netherlands we do not take women who are pregnant into custody. Hostage is a result of a fine, but in general a prison must be suitable for women who are pregnant, who have broken the law and who have been convicted. You can't say pregnancy always makes you unfit for detention. I give figures on how many times, during the current year, people have been asked from prison to investigate whether this person is fit for detention. This year 36 studies have been carried out. They were all about everything, so it wasn't just about hostages. They were about men and women and about mental issues. They didn't just take place at the intake. This can also happen if someone's been in jail for two years and there are questions. Of these, eight were honoured this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u3	In fact, the Secretary of State made a mistake with his first words. He said these people have had enough opportunities already. No, that's not true. When people want to pay but cannot pay and get the first increases on the mat, these people often call the CJIB. The CJIB then says: sorry, there is a law in preparation, but that will take a while; you simply are not eligible. Those people are just gonna get held hostage eventually. The number of hostages has only increased over the past year. They are put away as criminals and locked up in detention, while it only costs the state money. Then what are we doing? These people want to pay, but they can't pay. Then make sure you have a proper payment arrangement. Now there's a pilot trying to make that possible. All I'm asking the Secretary of State is to extend this pilot to the people who are now constantly e-mailing. People like Angela, who, for example, are locked up when they want to pay but couldn't. Then you won't have to lock up pregnant women. Then there's a good payment arrangement and you help a lot of people who are in trouble right now and you don't have to put them away as criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u4	I said in my reply that I share the idea that we should offer more payment options, in order to ultimately reduce the number of hostage takings in relation to the old situation. Since 1 July it is already possible to make payment arrangements if the originally imposed fine was higher than €225. We have been seeing 15,000 additional schemes since 1 July, so the opportunity we have offered is paying off. We've made extra arrangements for 15,000 people, so it doesn't come to a hostage situation. I am also preparing to make it possible to settle in cases where the original amount was not €225, but the amount after reminders and increases is. That requires technically several changes, so we can't do it right away. This will eventually lead to more regulations and fewer hostage-takings. I continue to object to the ruling that, after a fine, people are "just" taken hostage. There is really a judge's assessment of whether there is no payment or can't, but they don't want to. There's a reason that the judge's test is in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u5	It is not for nothing that judges have rebelled against this payment system. Judges themselves have indicated that this is so inhumane, such an inhumane arrangement, that they call on the Secretary of State to come up with a good measure: if people want a payment arrangement, they must also be able to be dealt with. That's not possible right now. Even the pilot that's going on right now doesn't allow people to get locked up, even though they're willing to pay. They also say: that fine should not have been allowed, it was a stupid mistake, I want to pay too, but I can't do it right now. Those people are now being lifted from their beds, children are being left behind, and the Secretary of State allows these people to be locked up. I would once again ask that we at least stop taking pregnant women hostage, because that really leads to unacceptable health risks. Make sure you have a proper payment arrangement!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u6	It's either one or you make your prison suitable for people who've broken the law. I am not only talking about hostages, but also about people, women who have really gone seriously wrong and who have to go to jail, even if they are pregnant in the meantime. Make the conditions so suitable that they can stay there, even if they are pregnant. We did. So you can no longer claim that someone who is pregnant is unfit for detention. Furthermore, I am very sorry that Mrs Kooiman... I understand she might have wanted that sooner. She is now keeping a story that is very similar to the story she kept before we opened up that arrangement before I announced that that arrangement would come about. Those judges have indeed stirred themselves. Then there was the arrangement. We are already seeing 15,000 additional arrangements under the extended payment scheme. I am in the process of opening up the scheme even more widely, so I see that we are moving towards fewer hostages and an even more robust selection of those who are ultimately being held hostage as the last resort, after a judicial test.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u7	Freedom is the heaviest punishment we have in the Netherlands. It is the hardest thing the Dutch State can do to a person. We have 400,000 families living in poverty in the Netherlands. Hasn't the hostage situation actually become much more of a punishment for poverty? Like the questioner, I would like a very strict distinction to be made between people who are not able to pay and those who do not want to pay, including the lower fines. I would like proper account to be taken of the financial possibilities of a person or a family, so that no one disappears in prison just because it is poor. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u8	Again, hostage taking is not the standard package. There's a test in there. Before the prosecution brings an action before the court, it is examined whether it is indeed true that someone cannot pay, or who does not want to pay, when they actually can. Those keys are in our system. The number of schemes is also increasing. I'm still expanding the possibilities for an arrangement. The image that is being summoned here about hostage-taking is an image that I do not agree with. Yeah, I agree that we need to be taken into account, but that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u9	Isn't it a terrible pity that thousands of people are still walking around with a conviction while we lock up pregnant women in detention cells? Couldn't it at least be that no pregnant woman ends up in custody? If necessary, this should be done in a decent setting where care can be provided. The CDA doesn't want it, but if it's temporary, then not in the basement of a police station, but just in a decent place. There is a huge void because there are 15,000 criminals just walking around in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u10	Again, the picture is that we spend all day looking for pregnant women who still have a fine open. Of course, it doesn't work that way. There's a whole procedure ahead of that. The numbers are also very low. The number of hostage-takings will decrease, including for this category, as these schemes will be opened up. Then it should be checked whether the detention environment is suitable for the person. If appropriate, the procedure can be prosecuted. It's never a party to be held in custody, not even in a detention complex. It's not meant to be a party, either. It is a last resort that we want to use as much as possible because fines must be paid if people have broken the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u11	The number of hostages must go down and not up, as has happened in recent years. Fortunately, good measures have been taken. The number of pregnant women taken hostage can only be very low. Can the Secretary of State not promise that we are going to do an enormous amount of work to deliver tailor-made work? In practice, this simply does not mean taking pregnant women hostage or waiting for the child to be born. For that individual, customization must be possible. They're not criminals, just don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u12	I can say generically that they are not criminals, but of course you do not know individually what the transaction is the result of and for which the fine was imposed. First of all, I would like to take a little more time for that when it has happened for the last time, what numbers it is about and whether it will happen before we come to a measure based on a half picture of the facts. Again, there's a whole process ahead of it. If the cop finds out at the last minute that a woman is pregnant and wonders if she still has to, it can still be contacted. Then it is possible to say: we are not doing it at the moment, we are waiting a while and in the meantime we hope that the fine will be paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u13	Back to the beginning. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is actually quite simple, even for pregnant women, to prevent them from getting into a recovery process at all, namely simply not committing an offence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u14	That's the shortcut. Of course, there's no connection between the hostage situation and the pregnancy. If someone was pregnant during the offense, then the hostage situation can only be a new pregnancy, because there are two years in between anyway. If you don't break the law, you won't end up in a hostage situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u15	That is an open door, but much more important is that the hostage situation is imposed two years after the fine. In those two years there have been additional increases, which has increased the total amount and thus the debt. In the end, the risk of hostage is increased. Isn't it wiser to look more at personal circumstances? I am talking not only about pregnant women, but also about seriously ill people, people with a chronic disease who can no longer be put in prison, let alone in a detention centre.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u16	These are factors that are taken into account. I have outlined the whole process with all the guarantees in it. If the impression that we are holding someone hostage in the Chamber remains, and if this is repeated over and over again, I must point out that this does not correspond to the facts. An increase in the fine will occur if the fine is not paid. I have opened up an arrangement and I am developing an arrangement to enable people to make arrangements so that they do not run the risk of being held hostage. That is the path we are going to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-13-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you for your answers and for coming to the Chamber.
