ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. First of all, I give the floor to Mr Van Nispen of the SP Group. Speaking time is three minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. Access to justice and good legal aid are indispensable links in a rule of law. The drastic cuts on this are worrying. This has been repeated by a large part of this Chamber and even by a majority of the First Chamber. A whole series of motions have been passed against these cuts. The motion-Franken c.s. of 13 January 2015 is crystal clear: the planned budget cuts of EUR 85 million cannot continue and the government must seek alternatives to this. However, this motion is not being carried out. That's serious. In fact, no substantive arguments are given. There would be no cover. Like that's the fault of the First Chamber! That is really the fault of this cabinet. Despite strong criticism from all sides, these cuts have been made for measures that are counterproductive and infringe access to justice, a fundamental right. All this was really foreseeable. What's happening now really can't be. From accounting arguments, the austerity is simply being implemented. As of last February, the first series of measures was launched. The government is therefore calling the motion in question into question. Research is being carried out on austerity measures and cost increases. That is fine, but of course you have to do such an investigation in advance, before measures are shuffled out that fit within a fixed financial framework. Why didn't this happen the other way around? Why hasn't everyone involved turned their backs on where the system could be better and more efficient? Where is the view on access to justice? And what if, for example, the Wolfsen Committee recommends not to make the last series of cuts? Can it be reversed? And can you do that with retroactive effect? Squeezing cuts without support in both chambers is not the only thing. The discussion on the Legal Loket is also relevant here. Part of the original plans was a stronger Legal Loket. But what's happening? The opening hours are abolished and, with the greatest possible difficulty and pressure from the Chamber, the Secretary of State repaires íéts, but not enough. His reaction to the adopted chamberal motion is too lean. Why do we not allow the opening hours to exist, especially in the big cities, where the queues stand until the Wolfsen Commission has come up with recommendations and debated them with the Chamber? This also applies to the General Measure of Governance which has already been taken into account. This must be reversed as far as the SP is concerned, and as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the bigger picture. About 5% of all cases go to court. Many of these cases are directed against the government itself. Major cuts and many changes in policy create a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty. Municipalities get more responsibility but less money, resulting in crooked decisions. The government believes that the polluter must pay, but be consistent and do not simply turn the costs away from those seeking justice. Perform the motion against the cuts in legal aid: complete and immediate. I'd like to get a reaction to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u3	I am not claiming six minutes straight away, but I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Schouw, who is in the AIVD debate. Mr. Chairman. On 20 January last. The First Chamber approved two motions that had been tabled during the discussion of the budget of Security and Justice for 2015. In the first motion, by Scholten and others, the government is asked to investigate the increase in the cost of subsidised legal aid. In the second motion, tabled by Franken and others, the government is invited to refrain from the planned cuts in the amount of 85 million of legal aid financed and to seek alternative financing options. The latter motion, the Franken c.s. motion, does not contain a word of Spanish. The Secretary of State was given the clear mandate of the First Chamber to look again at the implementation of the savings on subsidised legal aid. However, the Secretary of State simply carried out a number of General Administrative Measures on 1 February. How does the Secretary of State judge this decision, regardless of the content of those measures, in the light of the parliamentary rules of the game? Why does he not just put aside an adopted motion, but also oppose it? After all, it is not often that a motion is tabled in the First Chamber, which is still successful and which the government then opposes. As far as I am concerned, he cannot ignore it so easily. The CDA Group does not think it is a good thing. We would like to have a reaction to this. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what he expects for the future. What consequences could this have for a future budget debate? I don't think the First Chamber is really happy about this. Reductions seem to be the primary reason for the Secretary of State not to carry out this motion. The Secretary of State misses revenue in 2015 if he doesn't make these cuts. The CDA Group asks the Secretary of State to indicate, not only for the General Management Measures, but also for the amendment of the Legal Aid Act that has now been put in the refrigerator, how much revenue the Cabinet will miss in 2015 and the years thereafter until 2018 if all proposed measures cannot enter into force in good time. A committee set up by the State Secretary will now look at the increase in the cost of subsidised legal aid and will also make recommendations. What if these recommendations are completely different from the Secretary of State's plans, as they have been presented so far? Does he then immediately dismiss his previous plans? In particular, the CDA Group, as well as the D66 Group, is interested in the savings achieved by strengthening the first-line provision in the Legal Loket. We have there on April 14th last. Debates of the European Parliament At that time, the Secretary of State stated that the Rutte I cabinet had a mandate of €693,000 and another €137,000 under the 2014 budget agreement. In total, this is €830,000 in 2018. If you see that the available budget for the Legal Loket in 2015 amounts to 23.5 million and in 2018 23.4 million in 2018 these are the figures of the State Secretary himself. In that debate, the Chamber expressed its concern at the closure of the running-in time, a measure taken to cover, inter alia, this task. If so much effort has already been made at the Legal Loket to make ends meet, how about the millions of savings on the Legal Loket, which the Cabinet wants to carry out further? That's a mystery to the CDA group. In the plans for subsidised legal aid that have just been put in the fridge, as much as 9.4 million in savings is entered into the Legal Loket. That is 40% of the total budget available to the Legal Loket in 2015. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u5	I'm almost done. I still have two rules; these are from D66. The D66 Group and the CDA Group also want to know whether the Secretary of State has shared this savings proposal of nearly 10 million with the management of the Legal Loket in the talks in recent weeks. How does the Legal Loket envisage the achievement of this task?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u6	Mr. Chairman. It remains a curious Hague experience rule: a proposal does not stand a chance until you have the cover in order and/or if a coalition parliamentarians suggests it. No cover or no coalition partner? Not a chance. Apparently, this also applies to the Secretary of State when it comes to an adopted motion. Within three minutes, there is no room for a detailed exploration of the limits of parliamentary budgetary law, but there is something very wrong when a wish expressed by a parliamentary majority is ignored. In this case, that wish was to reverse the proposed cuts of 85 million on subsidised legal aid. I call that disavouring Parliament. I would like a response from this Secretary of State. For the ruler, affordable access to justice is apparently an accounting issue. However, for those seeking justice, it is often a matter of self-preservation. Let me give you an example. Municipalities don't do enough for people in debt. Research shows that the municipalities use general exclusion grounds to keep the majority of people in financial difficulties out of the door. As long as the money problems persist, it appears virtually impossible to work thoroughly on a difficult family situation, addiction, unemployment or psychological problems. I would therefore like to advise the govern ment of the reaction of Secretary of State Klijnsma. She said: on the basis of this law, that is absolutely not the intention. She advised victims in last Thursday's NOS-Journaal to go to the city council, the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman, and there he comes to court. What is the value of such an appeal within this cabinet in the light of the harsh intervention in the subsidised legal aid? In how many cases could people with problematic debts go to court to enforce a claim granted by law? If these cuts continue against the wishes of the majority of Parliament, the appeal of the Secretary of State for GroenLinks is more like a question of a dead sparrow. As far as we are concerned, this cabinet is too often trading in conscience for the calculator. The people who have followed Jesse Klaver, our new group chairman, in the news over the last few days, know that this is called "economicism." That's certainly not a compliment. This means that the cabinet has no sense of values or, in this case, of our rule of law. The cabinet uses only arguments that arise from looking at a calculator.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u7	Mr. Chairman. Last year the budget of the Ministry of Security and Justice was adopted in the House of Representatives. This year the same thing happened in the First Chamber. That budget includes legal aid measures. And yes, these cuts are heavy on a lot of parties. I understand. It is only right that in this House, not least by my own group, access to justice is given enormous value, even for those who do not have financial resources. Recently we discussed this in detail during the debate on the Legal Loket, which Mr Van Nispen also mentioned. The majority of the First Chamber could not accept the considerations that we have made in the majority of this House and thought that it would then be impossible for me to say otherwise that an uncovered motion should be tabled in order to avoid the cuts in the case-law that has been financed, without providing the necessary financial alternative cover. I find that financially inappropriate. It also makes me frown the eyebrows otherwise, because this looks suspiciously like an amendment and the First Chamber has no right to amend it. Anyway, we're sitting here together on that. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Secretary of State a few questions. A committee has been set up. Its task is to investigate legal aid, cost increases, and also to make recommendations. I read in the recent letter that an interim report can be expected for the summer. Is there anything to say about the time of final reporting? In particular, I am also interested in what the Secretary of State himself is expected to be able to do with the interim report. This is a bit of a like-dan question, but is the Secretary of State going to work on it? The Dutch Order of Lawyers has set up a somewhat alternative committee, let me put it this way. I wonder how this committee relates to the work of the Wolfsen Committee. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u8	I listened in Mr Van Oosten's speech to a little criticism of the First Chamber, because it would not have a budget right but would have tabled an uncovered motion. Of course, the First Chamber does not treat the budget for nothing. It is not the case that they are sitting there chatting with each other and that the budget can go on unchanged. A motion has been tabled calling on the government to refrain from the planned cuts and to seek alternative funding options. Does Mr van Oosten in principle think that motions that have been adopted should be carried out and that alternatives should therefore be sought?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u9	I think I have made this very clear. If you submit a motion because you have an ambition or a certain desire, that is clear from this motion, I think you should also attach a cover to it. I think that's fancy. I simply note that in this case this is not the case. I think it should have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u10	We then disagree, because the motion calls on the government to seek alternatives. That means she has to come back to the Chamber and talk about it. But apart from that: Mr Van Oosten may find it annoying or not, but his party, together with the PvdA, has no majority in the First Chamber and that situation will become much more complicated after the election of the First Chamber, which will take place next week. I would like to tell him that it will only be more difficult to make the cuts, a point that is so heavy. Would it not be wise to look for alternatives and leave it not only to the Wolfsen Committee, but also to ask the Cabinet to draw up a vision of access to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u11	We have discussed this at various times in this building, in this Chamber. I can only say that I await with the greatest interest the report with the recommendations of the Wolfsen Committee. I understand the Secretary of State is doing the same. There's gonna be an interim report. I've asked if it leads to anything else. That's what I'm curious about. I await with interest the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u12	I'm a little surprised about two things. I am surprised that a fellow MEP does not say that adopted motions should simply be carried out unless the ruler can make it clear that it is in the national interest not to do so. I hear a whole different story. I hear that some sort of new Rules of Procedure have been invented by the VVD Group which states that you can only table a motion if you have found acceptable coverage within the government's austerity frameworks. How am I supposed to see that? Do we have a new kind of Rules of Procedure? Do motions no longer need to be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u13	I cannot escape the impression that the question is spreading in all directions. I shall come back to the answer I just gave to Mr Van Nispen. I find it generally, whether in the Lower House or the Upper House, chic that a politician who has a certain ambition with financial consequences indicates the cover.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u14	We can debate what we find chic. I find it chic that the people in my example, who have serious debts and whose secretary of state says they should go to court to sue, get legal aid. Does Mr Van Oosten share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u15	I just indicated that the VVD stands for access to justice. I can remember another debate, and I think that Mrs Van Tongeren also took part in it, in which I emphasized that after. I don't think that's what this is about. That was not the reason for this 30-member debate. We are holding this 30-member debate because a motion has been adopted in the First Chamber and I believe that we are all aware of the lack of coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u16	The VVD Group has often criticized the functioning of the Upper House. Is Mr Van Oosten now saying that the First Chamber cannot table a motion with financial consequences? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u17	No. Here's what I've reported. If you as a politician have an ambition that you translate into a motion and if you know that it has significant financial consequences, you have to cover for that motion. I think it belongs to every politician. I don't think that's weird at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u18	You can say that it should have been covered, but the motion has been tabled as it has been filed and as such it has been accepted by a majority of the First Chamber. Then the question is: does the VVD Group accept the parliamentary right of the First Chamber to table a motion that may or may have financial consequences? This motion encourages the government to look at other ways of financing and cutting back. Does the First Chamber have that right, yes or no? If she has that right, it is not appropriate to make extensive criticism of it here, as the VVD Group has often criticized the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u19	Every parliamentarians has every right to do what he or she wants, as far as is permitted. That's not what I'm talking about. But I can find something of what happens then, can't I? That is exactly what I am doing, given the fact that Mr Van Nispen has requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u20	Mr. Chairman. On 20 January of this year, the First Chamber held the motion-Franken c.s. Adopted. This motion calls on the government to refrain from the proposed €85 million cut in the amount of legal aid financed and to seek alternative financing options. The then Secretary of State indicated in a letter that he would not carry out that motion. He put forward three reasons for this in his letter. Sometimes I say that a cabinet is not obliged to carry out an adopted motion, with the exception of a motion of censure. The govern ment in question should then resign. My group has therefore not supported the request for this debate, despite the fact that it is an important subject that we have discussed and will certainly continue to discuss. The reason for not supporting this particular section, namely the failure to carry out a motion of the Supreme Court, lies in the constitutional aspect. It is, as I said, a motion from the First Chamber. That is where this discussion should have taken place on the non-implementation of the motion in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u21	Mr. Chairman. Access to justice is essential as far as the Christian Union is concerned and essential for the functioning of the rule of law. The thickness of your wallet should not determine the questions of justice and injustice. More than 100 million has already been cut in legal aid in 2010 and a significant new cut will be made in 2015. That would add up with the increase in registry fees. This really brings the limits of legal decency into sight as far as our group is concerned. That is also the view of the majority of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The Franken motion is clear: this austerity is too much. Now this new Secretary of State has had talks and perhaps he is still conducting them with the Minister of Finance on the Spring Note. Are those good conversations? Are those conversations where he put certain demands on the table? Are the soothing of these cuts and the motion from the First Chamber among the topics of discussion? Can we expect anything from the Secretary of State in that regard? This is the moment when too hard cuts and cuts that are unacceptable to a majority of the First Chamber can be mitigated. The First Chamber has also forced an investigation into the increasing costs of subsidised legal aid. The Secretary of State has promised that this investigation will be a wide-ranging investigation. We are indeed waiting for that. However, when can we expect this research and when will we get a mid-term report? And what if the report is there? Can the Government undertake, in a letter, to set out the guidelines and principles for a new system of subsidised legal aid before legislation comes to the Chamber? I would like to comment on this point. Finally, a broadly signed motion has also been tabled, with myself as the first signatory. It calls for the identification of the impact on the various income groups of the accumulation of measures in the field of registry rights and the subsidised legal aid. The previous Secretary of State had announced that if the bill were to come to the Chamber, it would go into detail. That was foreseen in early 2015. Now that the First Chamber has crossed those plans and the committee is busy, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he is going to carry out the motion. Is this also an aspect that the Committee of Inquiry is taking with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u22	Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, this is a debate on state law, and for a change, I very much agree with my colleague from the PVV. It is very strange that we in the House of Representatives are concerned about motions of the First Chamber that are or are not being carried out. That is what the First Chamber itself is about. If it considers that a motion is not being carried out, it must have consequences. It is very strange that we do that in the House of Representatives. We have spoken out loud about these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u23	This tone of Mr Recourt, who now lectures the Chamber because we are debating a motion for a resolution which has been adopted, I really do not think that it is appropriate. First of all, we are talking about access to justice. About all the speakers have paid attention to this. Of course, the reason is the fact that a motion from the First Chamber is passed, which is true, because there is now deliberate policy, supported by his group, which cannot count on support in both Chambers. That's very strange indeed. That's the direct cause. However, this is about access to justice. I understand that the PvdA prefers not to talk about this, because it is very difficult to cut EUR 85 million on that, but do not comment that this debate should not have been held. Come on! We prefer to talk about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u24	You've made your point. Proceed, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u25	As far as the content of this debate is concerned, access to justice and the cuts in legal aid are concerned, the First Chamber has reached 13 million out of 85 million in savings, while the remaining cuts have been put in place, pending the report of the Wolfsen Committee which is due to come shortly. So that also makes it useful once again to wait for the Wolfsen report before we can see what consequences the Upper House will have. We may also be able to make wise lessons of our own. I understand that as far as the content you are referring to is concerned. However, once again, in the area of state law, I think you should have asked for a 30-member debate on how to proceed with legal aid. There are a hundred possibilities conceivable but not a debate on why a motion from the First Chamber is being carried out or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u26	Together we are the States-General and together we try to operate as purely as possible within rules established by ourselves. Then let me put the question more generally. Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists believe that motions for resolutions adopted by a majority should be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u27	As far as the House of Representatives is concerned, I think we should draw conclusions if that does not happen. As far as the First Chamber is concerned, my primary position is that the First Chamber should say: hey, my motion is not being carried out. If you want to go further, this is a budget motion and the budget is a law. We have placed the right of amendment not with the First Chamber but with the Second Chamber in our main Constitution. So what the First Chamber should do if it does not agree with a budget cut is reject the budget. Now, as the author of a motion, you are actually doing something different, by saying that we will allow that budget to continue, but we are adjusting a bit. This brings the Upper House into a domain that was not intended for the Upper Chamber. In that sense, it is actually an addition to the discussion that has been going on between First and Second Chambers about whether the First Chamber is not playing too much Tweede Kamertje. I think this is a good example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u28	In my view, it is still a fine principle of justice that anything that is not prohibited is allowed. So in this case, the First Chamber has done something that your colleague Van Oosten may not think is chic. You might think it's too much playing Lower House. You can just call it politics. Does the PvdA Group agree with me that this is possible simply within the rules of the game we have set ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u29	Members of the Second and First Chambers may submit motions. That's what happened. My argument is that if there is a problem with a motion in the First Chamber, the First Chamber must also settle that problem. That is the responsibility of the First Chamber. This is where we can stand. I have no formal authority to say that we cannot discuss this. We can talk about it, but I can only take the view that I think that is a crazy course of action in the light of state law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u30	It is a remarkable view of the PvdA Group that there should always be consequences here, in the House of Representatives, if a motion is not carried out. For example, on the issue of refugees, motions have indeed been adopted that have not been carried out, but that aside. My question concerns the relationship between First and Second Chambers. As far as I am concerned, it is strange that on the one hand it is said that the right of amendment does not lie with the First Chamber and that it has therefore actually exceeded its bounds. But the First Chamber has said that access to justice is at stake and that this can have financial consequences. Does it not make sense for the House of Representatives, which does have the right to amend the budget, to speak about this? That right lies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u31	The law to amend has already been passed here. That's the formal side. It is now finally about the material side. What is actually happening is that the further austerity is not being achieved now and that is being sorted out. One thing has gone on, namely a discount of 40 million on the points system, but that amounts to an hourly rate from from my head I don't have it exactly ready for €104 to €102. That's about what happened. That's it. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u32	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u33	That wasn't legislation, it was a general measure of governance, by means of a back-up procedure. We have not had a debate on this at all. If the First Chamber says that access to justice is at stake here, it would be to our own detriment if we did not debate it, if we did not take the First Chamber seriously and listen very carefully to it, at the very place where we could do something about it in the financial sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u34	Once again, we have discussed it with great regret and then passed the law. So the law is no longer before us and so you can no longer apply the right of amendment. That's the way it goes: The House of Representatives deals with a bill first and then it goes to the House of Representatives. The First Chamber can then say: no, we find this so serious that we do not adopt the whole bill in this case. That would be very difficult and it happens very rarely. I believe it happened a long time ago with the Fleet Act. This is the way we have conceived it in our constitutional law and laid down it in our Constitution. There's nothing else I can do. I have a few small points to make on the content. Of course, access to justice is an extremely important point. We must guarantee them as well as possible. We'll talk about it a lot in the Chamber. The legislation that has now been temporarily suspended in the Upper House is by no means due to the Lower House. In short, we come back to this very often and then our group will always be seen as critical and constructive on this subject. The Legal Loket has recently been discussed. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for listening to the Chamber and at least keeping the walk-in time open so that people can still come up with a file and put it down. This possibility is wider in the big cities than in the smaller cities. This subject will also be discussed at length again, as I think the Wolfsen Committee, because the cabinet had the idea that the Legal Loket should be strengthened, as a kind of general practitioners' post, with first-line legal services. For this, it is necessary to have substantive plans. They are likely to have financial consequences. We are going to talk about this in detail too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u35	In my speech, I quoted the example of Secretary of State Klijnsma, who said: you should go to court, because municipalities do not help many people in financial difficulties on general grounds of exclusion. Is Mr Recourt convinced that all these people, with what has now happened administratively, will be helped and can go to court, to which the Secretary of State calls them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u36	Yeah, within the rules that there is. Not everyone can go to court. That is, everyone can go to court, but not everyone gets that financially. There's an organization that's testing this. At the moment, nothing is changing about this because of what would be happening today, namely the cuts in the legal aid that the cabinet has put in place. What has been achieved is a discount on the hour rate of the lawyers. Nothing changes as far as own contribution or jurisdictions are concerned. That's all suspended. In short, if your question is "is something changing in the coming time?" Then my answer is: no, we are waiting for the Wolfsen Committee. The only thing that's changed is the hourly rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u37	My question was another one. The Secretary of State calls people and says: the way the municipalities apply this law is not right, so go to court. That's a new call. These people are in financial trouble and therefore do not have the opportunity to hire a lawyer themselves. Can the people who are in these circumstances indeed go to the judge to whom the Secretary of State has summoned them?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u38	The answer is yes. But of course there has to be a clause. That clause is: I cannot see in all individual cases whether those people do not have sufficient equity to pay a lawyer. If they do not, they simply fall back on the existing rules, which have not yet been amended, concerning legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u39	I would now like to talk to Mr Recourt about the content, namely the rates. That is what the General Measure of Governance is all about. He made it look like it wasn't all that much, in the vein of: €2 off. But it's not. They are not the right figures: they are about the reduction of the rate, about the non-indexation and about the reduction of the points. These are measures that add up to many social attorneys' offices. Earlier, in the written round, the Labour Party expressed its concern about this General Measure of Management, because certain social attorneys, who specialize in, for example, helping homeless people and foreigners, have to stop. Does Mr Recourt still have those concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u40	Yes, of course. We are repeating a debate which we have had a number of times. That hourly rate doesn't say much in itself. I don't think the SP stands up on its own for those poor lawyers who make so little money. They must have a reasonable sandwich, but above all there must be sufficient soil to be able to do not only common but also specialised business. That's the bottom that the Labour Party puts under that hourly rate. You can't bring that down endlessly, but what's happened now is still acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u41	Mr Van Nispen, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u42	It's not an hourly rate, it's a point rate. That's a whole other thing. Mr Recourt, of course, knows very well that social attorneys' offices have made it to the ground. Offices that only work with matters based on addition, are now almost out of control. We should not pretend that they deserve a rate of €100 per hour. It's not like that. They often work three times as much for that. Surely Mr Recourt can acknowledge that? You can express concerns here, but what mandate does Mr Recourt give to the government for the coming period? We're not just going to wait for the Wolfsen Commission, are we? Surely the government itself must look for alternatives where there can be decent savings. That's not legal aid anymore, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u43	The Wolfsen Committee will map out what the average lawyer deserves in legal aid. I fully agree with Mr Van Nispen that this €102 is not credited directly to the bank account per hour. We're gonna need office expenses and everything and everything. So there are low-income social lawyers. However, there are also high-income social lawyers, because there is sometimes accumulation. Sometimes you can add things together, and in some cases that gives you a very solid income. On average, we do not know; we have to wait for the Wolfsen Committee to do so. Unlike Mr Van Nispen's suggestion, I do not expect the cabinet to come up with alternatives in anticipation of the Wolfsen Commission. No, the Wolfsen Commission is here to take stock of problems. If the result of that committee is to be obtained, then we must look at how we can solve any problems. I suspect there are a few problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u44	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions. I would first like to give a general response to what has been said in the first term and then to address specific questions. Today we are talking about the budget for security and justice which was accepted by the First Chamber on 20 January. Motions have been tabled. Two are particularly relevant to the debate today: the Scholten motion and the Franken motion; the MPs have already spoken about this. On 30 January, my predecessor informed the President of the First Chamber of the manner in which the motions were carried out. Part of the implementation of these motions is the failure to implement a large part of the cuts. Another element is the setting up of the Wolfsen Commission. The First Chamber has seen reason in this to ask questions to my predecessor. These questions were answered on 6 February this year. Afterwards, the First Chamber announced that it would postpone the discussion on the way in which the Franken motion is carried out until the interim report of the Wolfsen Committee. In view of the change in the composition of the First Chamber, the Senate has asked me to see if the Wolfsen Committee could come forward with its interim report a little earlier. I have brought that request to the attention of the committee. Unfortunately, however, it was not possible for the Wolfsen Committee to deliver that report earlier. As a result, the discussion with the First Chamber on this matter will be continued by me with the new First Chamber. In that sense, I would like to take away the impression that I would not be talking to the Senate itself about a motion adopted in the Senate. I hope that the members of the Senate will have no objection to us discussing this motion here in this House. The Scholten motion calls for an investigation. That's what we do. Mr Van Nispen asked why this was not done first. The plans weren't rash, but the First Chamber said she wants us to look into them more closely. That is what we are responding to; that motion is being carried out. The Wolfsen Committee is the way we do it. Pending the report, a large part of the work on the planned plans and measures has been suspended. The General Measure of Management, which has continued for a limited part of the amount, 13.3 million, is the subject of the investigation by the Wolfsen Commission. The Franken motion calls for the 85 million to be dropped. I will not faintly say that this is already happening because we are doing 13 million and 13 million is not 85 million. I understand that the broader intention of the motion, the ideal picture behind it, is not to do the 13 million. However, I am dealing with a motion without alternative and with a budget adopted in two chambers. I hear big words that I wouldn't make a motion. You can also say, however, that I am implementing a budget adopted by two Chambers, where that simply says so. Besides, I'm not sneaking around. The AMvB, which has been implemented, for 13.3 million euros in 2015, has just passed the Chambers through the front suspension procedure. This has also been discussed. Here, motions have also been proposed not to carry out parts of that AMvB. That motion didn't make it here. So it's a little more complex than a very simple motion that I would refuse. I am dealing with a combination of motions in both chambers and a budget. I have tried, to the best of my knowledge, by setting up the Wolfsen Committee and by suspending the vast majority of the measures, to do justice to the motions, decisions and votes on the budget in both Chambers as far as possible and as feasible. I'm here to talk about the Legal Loket. We have talked about this recently. With regard to the new working methods of the Legal Loket, the Chamber had the wish that it would not immediately be entirely obliged to make a telephone or electronic appointment before it could actually appear. The walk-in time had to be kept open. I would like to thank Mr Recourt for saying that a nice and nice step has been taken by keeping the walk-in time in large cities twice a week and in other cities once a week. I had the hope that Mr Van Nispen too would respond to this solution and be satisfied. From what he has said, I understand that it has not been possible. However, I think that the Legal Loket has made a good decision and that we have done so in consultation, heard the Chamber. In addition, we leave the new working methods standing, because I really think it would be nicer for the customers to come to their meeting with all the documents so that they can be helped immediately and if they can come one day that a lawyer is present who specializes in their problem. It is not optimal to be in that queue, but it is still possible for people who really cannot find access to legal aid in any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u46	I still need to explain this. I appreciate that a limited walk-in time has been maintained. I think that's a good step; it's better than nothing. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that, perhaps, he already knew that people have to wait about an hour now, especially in the big cities, and that there are not even enough seats in the waiting area. We know how long the queues have been here in The Hague and in other major cities. The walk-in time has now been reduced to two times two hours a week. There aren't even enough chairs and people have to wait an hour on average. Things aren't going well right now. That is the situation at the moment. It's the first experience, though. Of course, they must be investigated, but that is where my discontent comes from. I'm hoping for a little understanding, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u47	I understand that discontent. I am looking at the solution differently, because we have a different analysis of the measures taken by Legal Loket in a different way. In the old situation people were also in the queue. Sometimes you were in the queue repeatedly, because after waiting you found out that you didn't have certain documents with you or because someone who knew very much about them was present on another day. It all happened. It is ideal if someone first makes an appointment, knows exactly what to bring and can contact the person who can help him very well at an exact time. I am confident that this process will continue in the coming weeks, which will make it less necessary to stand in line. As I promised last time, we will include this in the monitor. This aspect will also be taken into account. We will then see whether it is an ingrowth effect of the new method which reduces the problem raised by Mr Van Nispen or whether it is too optimistic a view of life.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u48	We should not repeat the debate on the Legal Loket here, but I do have a question for the Secretary of State, given the first noises I have heard. Is he prepared to take stock of those initial experiences well before the summer recess, and not to wait for the monitor set up by the Legal Assistance Council and the Legal Loket, because that may take a long time. Is he prepared to see for himself whether to send people out there to see if things are going well over the next few weeks, so that we can intervene in the long term if we need to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u49	I am not going to go over it, but at your request I was nevertheless concerned to have the Legal Loket bring about an adjustment. I therefore urge you not to get back on top of it immediately and to draw conclusions within a few weeks. I think you should monitor that for a longer time and give the new M.O. really a chance. We shouldn't think it couldn't work. There is now a good mix for a transition situation. We will see in the monitor what is needed and where the problems are or whether things are going well and perhaps even if people who are now in line are much less inclined to do so. We shall look at that in that monitor; it is now a bit speculative. I'm getting back to the main topic today. Mr Van Nispen asked if we could withdraw the AMvB. No, we can undo the effects through a new AMvB. I do say that more often today I will say that I really do attach great importance to having the Wolfsen Committee set up and investigating on a motion in the Senate, waiting for the findings of the committee and then drawing conclusions and taking appropriate measures instead of going into all sorts of what-as-scenarios now. The same applies to Mr Van Nispen's call for the 13 million cuts to be reversed immediately. I believe that, with the implementation of the Franken motion, we have found a careful balance which also reflects the underlying reservations of principle. We are also doing good research into access to justice and the measures that are still possible. Mr Van Nispen has asked whether we are putting measures aside. Others asked me what my conclusions are based on what Wolfsen is going to say. I cannot draw these conclusions until the committee has spoken, but there is, of course, a willingness to consider what measures are feasible and desirable in response to the committee's report. I haven't decided to submit the old plans now, no matter what the report says. That would be a weird thing to do. You can't know what's in it, so you can't tell me how you're handling it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u50	I understand that; we must, of course, wait for the Wolfsen Committee's report before we know what that committee will recommend. This General Measure cannot be withdrawn, but a new one may come. My question was whether this could happen retroactively. That was my question. I would like to put the question to that effect as to whether, during the time when the Wolfsen Committee is working, the thinking really stands still. Or does the Secretary of State think that alternatives should also be sought? If he doesn't think so, is it a fact for him that in one way or another this large amount of legal aid should be cut? If we do not think about this now, perhaps we will be too late when the Wolfsen Commission has produced a report and we still have to discuss it with the Finance Minister, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u51	In the end, it's always up to the Chamber to take things and decide what we're going to do. In my view, however, it would be a bit theoretical to start doing things retroactively. Then you would have to bring things back out of the next budget. Seems to me that's getting pretty complicated. So I will not take the initiative. In response to the last questions asked by Mr Van Nispen, I say: the thinking is of course not stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u52	I see that Mr Van Nispen still wants to respond to this. This is really the last time, Mr Van Nispen, because I understand that this discussion has already taken place in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u53	If thought does not stand still, I would urge the Secretary of State to come up with a vision of access to justice. That's what the Chamber's been asking for for years. This also applies to a large part of the current Chamber and to a majority of the Upper Chamber. To date, such a vision has not yet appeared. Alternative funding must also be sought. This is called for in the motion adopted in the Upper Chamber. I am making this appeal, and I would urge the Secretary of State to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u54	I will respond to the Wolfsen Committee's report first. I think that's the right order. Thinking about budgetary matters does not stand still, but we do not always think out loud. We shall therefore come back to that when the budget is discussed. Questions have been asked about not carrying out a motion. I have already said that I have the impression that we are implementing the motion as much as possible, as far as possible and without getting into any trouble with other matters. We are also discussing this with the authors of the motion and with the Senate. We have been asked when we expect the Wolfsen Committee's final report to be published. That report will be published no later than 1 September, but perhaps earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u55	It is still unclear to me why one part of the Franken motion is not being carried out and the other part is. Can the Secretary of State explain that? Why isn't he in the part about the 13 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u56	I have a budget for the year 2015, which has been adopted in the Lower House and the Upper House. It also contains that amount of 13 million. That's why we submitted that AMvB to both chambers. It's accepted. Motions have been tabled in the House of Representatives to undo the effects, but they have not been adopted. That is the reason for the difference between 13 million and 85 million. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u57	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u58	Mr Oskam has asked what could possibly be missed in the whole package. So we are talking about the 85 million structuralally. That's the amount you get when you decide not to implement the original plans at all. That amount of 85 million is therefore the maximum. Mr Van Oosten asked about the investigation of the committee set up by the Dutch Bar Association. This concerns the committee chaired by Professor Barkhuysen. So that committee is also investigating. I understand that the chairmen of both committees are in contact with each other, so that the investigations do not interfere. If the report of the Committee set up by the Order of Lawyers appears, we will take note of it with interest. If I send the cabinet response to the findings of the Wolfsen Committee to the Chamber and if there are relevant elements in the report of the other committee, then we will take those elements into account in that cabinet response. Mr Van Oosten also asked a question about the interim report. I'm expecting it this month. I'll send it to the Chamber as soon as I can. Mr Van Oosten also asked whether we are going to do something about this interim report. That is a rather tricky question, because I do not know what will be included in the interim report. Theoretically it is possible that it will say: we are already out. It could say: we'll figure out a few more things and then the final report will come. Yeah, then we've moved on. I don't know what's gonna be in that interim report, so I can't tell you what I'm gonna do with it right now. I can only say that I will inform the Chamber. Then I come to Mr Segers' question about the talks with the Minister of Finance. That's a nice question. However, I fear that my answer will be a little disappointing. However, I can tell you that a simple yet nutritious lunch meal has been served, which has been promised that it will not be passed on to the Ministry of V and J. In addition, Mr Segers asked how we are going to implement his motion on stacking effects. In this context, too, I would like to say that we are responding to the recommendations of the Wolfsen Committee. There may then be new plans; if new plans are made in this area, we will also make the accumulation effects clear. That seems to me to have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u59	I asked a question about the Legal Loket. On 14 April we debated keeping the consultation hours open. In that connection, the Secretary of State said he was going to talk to the board. That has now been done, and that has led to success. However, I can imagine that if you sit at the table with each other, a director of the Legal Loket will talk about the 40% cut and you will also have an exchange of views.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u60	In the debate on the Legal Loket, I was accused that in the plans that are now on hold, I was accused of being put on hold in Dutch: for a moment on pause, the Legal Loket was just intensified and it was weird that something had to be done, namely another function. Of course, that's a package. Now that the whole package is in the fridge, we haven't talked about what's going to happen when it comes out completely. As a result of the Wolfsen Committee, we are going to discuss which parts of the package I shall be surprised by the creativity of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. That's why we're not going to go through all the what-as-scenario right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u61	That doesn't make me feel good. Pretty much everything's on hold. The Wolfsen Commission will present a recommendation in September. She may be going against the Secretary of State. Then the Secretary of State must come up with very new ideas and alternatives. The same applies to the management of the Legal Loket, which is engaged in its own operations. So I can hardly imagine that there has been no mention of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u62	I wouldn't have minded if the Senate hadn't adopted the Franken motion and we could have carried out all the original plans in full. There would have been nothing on pause, we would not have known this exciting situation and we would not have had a Wolfsen Commission. However, it is a fact that plans that were once submitted and closed were stranded in the Senate. That has consequences, and with that reality we live. That is not the easiest route, I am aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u63	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. At least that applies to Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u64	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the First Chamber, the plans to cut 85 million in access to justice have not been fully implemented. However, I still believe that you should first carry out research and only then implement measures. However, during the investigation of the Wolfsen Committee, the thinking should not stand still. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a vision of access to justice and legal aid after the final findings of the Wolfsen Committee itself and to discuss it with the Chamber before introducing new plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Oskam, Van Tongeren and Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u65	I have another question on this motion. When a committee produces a report, it is, of course, customary for the cabinet to give a response. Is that what Mr Van Nispen means? Or does he mean anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u66	I think it is right to wait until the Wolfsen Committee has reached a conclusion. However, I can also imagine that it could take a very long time to do so. It doesn't matter to me in itself, but for a government party and a Secretary of State, who still feel that there should be a balanced budget, it seems to me awkward to wait for a vision to be written. There's a lot you can do. Following the agreement of the Wolfsen Commission, there must be a vision of access to justice, which must be discussed with the Chamber. After that, we can't move on. I do not think we can put everything away from the Wolfsen Committee and then cut the buttons. I want a vision of the government itself, because I miss it so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u67	But if the cabinet responds to or appreciates the findings of the Wolfsen Committee, then is Mr Van Nispen's motion satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u68	That depends. If that cabinet response contains a view on access to justice, then this motion is fulfilled. That is not the case, however, if we only look back in the vein of 'the Wolfsen Committee has done so good work and there are interesting things in it' and then there are buttons being cut through. That is not what I mean by a vision of access to justice. I also noticed that my speaking time has just gone a long way, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u69	Is that right? Well, then you can go round up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u70	Then there is another point of principle. You're just making a motion, not half of it, but all of it. This certainly applies to a motion from the First Chamber, because that Chamber usually looks even more critically at fundamental rights. However, it is especially important because it concerns the quality and work of the social lawyer. These are under pressure, partly because of the tariff reduction in the General Measure of Governance which has been introduced. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 13 January 2015, a majority of the First Chamber requested the government to refrain from the planned cuts in the funded legal aid of EUR 85 million and to seek alternative financing opportunities;]] [[Considering that the Government nevertheless brought into force the General Measure of Scheme Renewal Legal Assistance I as of 1 February 2015;]] [[noting that the AMvB scheme renewal constitutes legal aid I part of the planned austerity plans and that their introduction is contrary to the wishes of the majority of the Upper Chamber;]] [[calls on the Government, the AMvB system renewal to reverse legal aid I,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-01]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u71	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his prompt response. However, there is a lot hanging over the market. The Wolfsen report is not due until September. Only then can the Secretary of State decide what he's going to cut back. That's gonna be tough. Some of the Franken motion was carried out, some of it wasn't. In fact, we do not think we can do that. During the budget debate in November last year, which was still with the previous Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, a large part of the opposition also expressed concerns about how to deal with the legal aid financed. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that a motion was adopted in the First Chamber to refrain from the cuts in the legal aid financed;]] [[noting that the Government has indicated that it will not implement this motion;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the First Chamber, a large part of the House of Representatives, at the time of the budgetary procedure, expressed its concern about the savings made on the legal aid financed and thereby an unacceptable violation of the rule of law;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the planned cuts in the amount of legal aid financed and to seek alternative financing options,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Oskam, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Segers and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u72	We've talked extensively about state law. The Secretary of State then said: but I am in agreement with the Supreme Court. Part of that motion is being carried out. A committee is being set up and so on. It is now a motion tabled by Mr Oskam's CDA colleague in the Upper House. "Disrespect" may be a big word, but it's not exactly chic that we in the Lower House are actually speaking in turn? Shouldn't we just leave this to the First Chamber? Isn't it much more tidy than Mr Oskam's colleague, Mr Franken, if he's unhappy, because maybe he's very satisfied calling the bell himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u73	No, I don't. Let me take back to what Mrs Van Tongeren said about this. We are one state-general. This Chamber has much more possibilities of calling the Secretary of State to account. Of course, it is not just the constitutional aspect that is being discussed here about a motion from the First Chamber; it is mainly about the underlying problem. The point is that we are concerned about the legal aid that has been financed and about the Legal Loket and that we may be faced with unpleasant surprises in the near future, because if the Wolfsen report makes other recommendations than the Secretary of State hopes, then next year we will have to deal with this again. It just keeps going on and on. All chain partners need to cut back, now the Legal Loket. We need 40% savings. The people there don't know if it's going to happen. So I think it is quite right that we should discuss this in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u74	Mr Oskam now goes into the substance in his reply, but he starts by saying that the motion has not been carried out. Then he won't take his colleague seriously, will he? His colleague Franken is perfectly capable of defending himself when he feels that something should happen to his own motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u75	He can, but we have chosen to take our own responsibility. Mr Van Nispen has asked for this debate on my behalf. I think it's very good that we're talking about it again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u76	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. After reading it, I would like to say a few words about the general point of principle. The motion relates to the content. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the cuts in subsidised legal aid create thresholds for citizens' access to justice and justice;]] [[Whereas in common administrative disputes with public authorities, citizens generally do not have any alternative to court proceedings;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with representatives of local authorities, to propose and inform the Court of Justice of measures for the independent settlement of common administrative disputes between citizens and non-judicial authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31753-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u77	The Secretary of State has said that the money isn't there, that he's doing his best and that he's waiting for a report. I think that is a moderate implementation of a motion adopted by a majority. I am disappointed in my colleagues from the PvdA and the VVD because they say that it all happened according to the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but in fact we do not think it is chic or neat and that it should not be so. My position is quite clear that everything we have in our regulations is allowed if it is done according to the rules. That's what happened in this case. I find it strange that my fellow Members do not defend our right of motion and perhaps at later times of amendment to fire and sword.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u78	The other first-term speakers refrain from taking part in the second term. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Secretary of State can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u79	Mr. Chairman. I can go straight to the motions. In the motion-Van Nispen c.s. in piece No. 100 is asked for a vision. That word has several meanings. I've been looking it up for a while. Van Dale says it's an opinion. Then the cabinet juice valuation would be a vision. But I have the impression that the recipient then determines whether something is enough to be a vision. A broader view of legal aid was already given in December 2013. So there is. It's not like if it doesn't like it, we just deliver another one on request. There's gonna be a Cabinet Juice Appreciation anyway. It contains an opinion and new plans. I would like to leave it at that. As far as "a vision" is concerned, I would consider the motion superfluous. As far as 'a vision' is concerned, as I suspect, I would advise against the motion. We'll come up with that as far as it's not already there. In the motion-Van Nispen/Van Tongeren to piece No. 101 is asked the government to reverse the AMvB. I advise against this motion. In the first period, I explained in detail in my answer why the way in which the action was taken was done. I don't see any reason to go back to that right now. The motion-Oskam c.s. in piece No. 102 has the same effect. It calls on the government to refrain from the planned cuts. I said that we will first see the Wolfsen Committee's report. Then we can also see to what extent measures are still recommended and to what extent we may adopt them and what the final picture is. Then we will inform the Chamber about any alternatives. The fourth motion, in part No. 103 is about common administrative disputes. I also advise against that motion. There has been a lot of talk in the Chamber about out-of-court dispute resolution. Initiatives to this end have our support in principle. There is also a great deal going on, including from the local authorities and other authorities, to settle disputes outside the courts. There are also all kinds of alternatives, whether or not laid down in the law. We do not want to institutionalise these initiatives again and traverse new forms by, say, sitting on top of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u80	Can the Secretary of State explain where these people, who want to go into debt relief but can't and who are called by their own State Secretary to go to court?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u81	I have heard Mrs Van Tongeren quote or paraphrase more fully in the first term from the fellow State Secretary. In doing so, Mrs Van Tongeren herself suggested other methods, such as the Ombudsman, the city council or simply a good discussion rather than a courtroom. In addition, I am working with the aforementioned fellow Secretary of State to see whether we can offer solutions in this area. We have also recently informed the Chamber of this by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u82	The answer was: there are plenty of alternatives that people can go to. In this motion, we are only asked to examine the possibilities. These are people who are now in acute trouble and who are called upon by their own State Secretary, among other things, to go to court. Then the answer is: those alternatives are already there. Apparently not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u83	If someone mentions three alternatives, Mrs Van Tongeren repeats them, they are there. I also think it is more important for a material solution to the issue. We recently informed the Chamber by letter of the steps we are taking. That's what I'm focusing on. I think it would be more appropriate to speak to the relevant fellow Secretary of State if there were a difference of opinion as to what she meant by her words.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-05-19-tweedekamer-12.u84	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
