ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u1	Sorry to keep you waiting. I was wrong about the time. I thought we were supposed to start at 6:30, but there was another VAO. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut of the SP, the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u2	Mr. Chairman. Poverty and debt. In addition to the fact that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet is pursuing unfair income policies, leading to an increasing number of people in debt and poverty, there is also the bureaucracy with its complex arrangements. That is why the first motion, co-signed by Mr Schouten of the Christian Union, Mr Van Weyenberg of the D66 Group and Mr Heerma of the CDA Group, was tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the premium-free foot must guarantee the absolute minimum subsistence level;]] [[noting that in practice there is not always sufficient use of the herd-free foot, leaving people unnecessarily below the minimum standard of living;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Netherlands Association of Municipalities and the Tax Administration, to reach agreements to ensure that citizens participating in municipal debt relief are actively applied the free-of-wound footage, the free-of-wound footage is calculated in advance and, where appropriate, overpaid amounts are reimbursed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of the many variables, the calculation of the herd-free foot is complex and is therefore aimed at simplification;]] [[noting that bailiffs and the Tax Administration, as well as other organisations, warn of an additional complicating factor if, as of 1 July, the cost-sharing standard "coagulance' is introduced in the popular sense for existing situations;]] [[Calls on the Government to postpone the introduction of the cost-sharing standard until 1 January 2016,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Karabulut, Mr Schouten, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-301]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u3	Mr. Chairman. During the general consultation we discussed in detail the position of thezzp'ers and the question whether the debt relief is available to them. I was under the impression that the Secretary of State would send further information on this matter to the Chamber. There has been some misunderstanding about this, but we are still hearing sounds that it is difficult, if not impossible, forzzp'ers to gain access to municipal debt relief, which can be of great benefit to them. Hence the next motion, which was co-signed by Mr Van Weyenberg of D66. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipal debt relief is not or is difficult to access for self-employed persons with an undertaking which is still operating;]] [[Whereas the possibility for self-employed persons to avail themselves of the Decision provides only for additional financial resources, but not for wider debt relief;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how self-employed persons with a still functioning undertaking can access municipal debt relief and inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Schouten and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-303]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u4	Mr. Chairman. People have the freedom to make debts, but also the responsibility to repay them themselves. When people are in debt and don't come out well, there are coaching opportunities. Debts are bad for a person she has, especially if that's because of bad luck and not reckless behavior, but this doesn't deprive people of the responsibility to solve their own debt problem. The focus is on getting out of debt, which starts with getting to work. After all, a job is the best and only way out of poverty. This cabinet and this coalition, but especially entrepreneurs and other Dutch people, are trying to pull our country out of the crisis and ensure that more jobs are created. According to the government agreement, 100 million is earmarked for municipal poverty and debt policies. Thanks to decentralisation, municipalities have the opportunity to opt for an integrated approach. For example, there is scope for tailor-made spending on poverty and debt policies. With the introduction of the Participation Act, forms of categoric assistance are not allowed, but municipalities should also retain policy freedom as regards the VVD. The cabinet is, as has been said, well engaged and should keep course as far as the VVD is concerned and make maximum use of the wages of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u5	This is quite a standard string. I find this painful, because hundreds of thousands of Dutch people have become either unemployed or in debt, partly because of government policy. Will you at least support the fact that we are working together to ensure that municipalities, in consultation with the Tax Administration and other bodies, can apply the absolute minimum of living we have laid down in the law, in anticipation of the laws and regulations that the State Secretary is in the process of changing?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u6	Mrs Karabulut asks if the VVD is in favour of the government sticking to the law. Of course we are. I have heard in the AA that the Secretary of State is ensuring that this is done as well as possible and that it is being worked hard. I see no reason to support a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u7	I am curious about the response of the Secretary of State to the request of the municipal authorities, of which VVD aldermen are also members: give us the space now and make sure that we are not guaranteeing the minimum standard of living in a kind of work consultation, a trial yard or whatever you want to call it, in advance of adapting laws and regulations, to really guarantee that people will not become poorer and more indebted.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u8	Last night we had a problem with the e-mail in the Chamber, so perhaps Mrs Karabulut missed the letter from the Secretary of State who came in late last night saying that she is talking to the municipalities to see what the possibilities are. Let's just wait and see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress once again that the problems of the unhindered foot must be resolved as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible. The urgency of this is high and is widely supported by the Chamber. In addition, the PvdA wishes to stress that the introduction of the cost sharing standard in the unhindered foot should not lead to a more complex development of that unhindered foot. During the AO, the Secretary of State received the PvdA's calls for care and time-out for banks and child packages with open arms. The PvdA is happy with that. Nevertheless, the PvdA continues to insist on increasing the pace of implementation of the various measures announced. With regard to the PvdA's appeal that the Secretary of State should be the driver of the child packages, we will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has made structural use of an additional EUR 100 million to implement poverty and debt policies;]] [[considers that part of this amount should be spent on children in poverty, as no child in poverty should suffer;]] [[noting that part of the municipalities have engaged in the introduction of a so-called child package;]] [[Whereas this benefits children in poverty;]] [[noting that the child package has not yet been introduced in all municipalities as part of poverty and debt policies;]] [[calls on the government to step up efforts to encourage municipalities to include the child package in municipal poverty and debt policies for children in poverty,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Yücel. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-304]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u10	What do I mean by extra support?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u11	I assume that Mrs Karabulut is referring to the extra support when it comes to the introduction of child packages?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u12	I am referring to the operative part of Mrs Yücel's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u13	It is therefore the operative part of the motion. I also made a point of this during the AO. I have heard the Secretary of State say that she is both a warm supporter and a driver of these child packages in municipalities. Only from the field and from the municipalities belong and I see that not all municipalities have included child packages in their poverty policies. The Ombudsman made commendable recommendations on this matter. I would like the cabinet to make an extra effort and to encourage municipalities to incorporate these child packages into poverty and debt policies. After all, children in poverty must be prevented as much as possible. Children in families with debt problems sometimes have to do with poverty. But at least make sure that the resources, especially from those 100 million, reach those children so that they can grow up with equal opportunities and develop further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u14	I very much agree that you must prevent poverty. It would be very helpful if you did not pursue an impoverishment policy, as is happening now. Then you don't have to mop up. But if you're going to mop up, I'm really wondering what the meaning of this motion is. We have in the past proposed to the Secretary of State to roll out the child packages nationwide. The Secretary of State doesn't want that. Mrs Yücel is now asking the Secretary of State to call up the additional efforts again, but the Secretary of State is already doing so. So I'm looking for what this means, except a little free compassion. I don't see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u15	First of all, I should like to comment on the politics we are conducting at the SP. I note that we want to move the country forward, that we are driving the economy forward as much as possible and that we are trying to get it better for everyone by taking responsibility. Then I have an answer to Mrs Karabulut's question. In the world, there's more than black and white. We have decentralised the resources against poverty. We would sometimes like the House of Representatives to be able to press the buttons to determine exactly what local poverty policy should be aimed at. But I note that municipalities also attach great importance to policy space, to free space and to tailor-made work. We'll respond to that. In between we have a lot of possibilities. A government can be in a conversation with the VNG or with municipalities driving developments by also bringing to the attention of other municipalities the best practices, which are very well-stocked in some municipalities, and providing guides for them and helping them. I think the cabinet can play a good role in pushing it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u16	Mr. President, may I...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u17	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u18	There is talk of handouts and listening to congregations. There is also a request from municipalities themselves. This was co-submitted by the alderman in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u19	Your question is therefore whether Mrs Yücel supports the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u20	My question is indeed whether Mrs Yücel's motion on item No. 301 supports the call to ensure that the foothold is used and actively applied and that agreements are made on this matter with municipalities. It's exactly as Mrs. Yücel says: dating.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u21	I support the call made by the municipalities to experiment in advance with the respect of the unwound foot. That is not being done at the moment, and that is a big problem. We have all agreed here that it is important to establish the unwound foot, so that people do not get any deeper into debt. And then our own government wouldn't stick to that. That is, of course, a disgrace; I agree with that. That is why I think it should be resolved quickly, but it is slow and difficult. That's not up to the cabinet either. That is why the municipalities have made this request. That is, among other things, from my own party mates. I have noted that the Secretary of State is addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u22	Mr President, the question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u23	Mrs Karabulut feels that you have not answered her question sufficiently. The question was whether the motion was supported or not. You answered that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u24	I note that the Secretary of State is picking up the wishes. I hope she gets results soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u25	This has put an end to the Chamber's term. The Secretary of State has indicated that it can respond directly to the motions submitted and that it can also answer the outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u26	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of your Chamber for their contributions in the form of motions. I'm gonna walk by the motions one by one. Mrs Karabulut has tabled two motions. The first is about the unwound foot and above all about the situation that the Tax Administration is working on it. I could very easily say that this is the primary responsibility of the Tax Administration and that Mr Wiebes is concerned about this, but I would nevertheless like to respond to the motion. If a person is late in payment, in this case with the Tax Administration, he or she will contact the Tax Administration to arrive at an appropriate payment arrangement. If there is debt relief, there is already a covenant with the Tax Administration and debt relief. On the basis of the agreements within the covenant, the Tax Administration will stop the collection if the debt relief service receives a stabilisation agreement signed by the debtor or debt relief agreement. That covenant creates a balanced set of agreements between Tax administration and debt relief. I do not therefore consider that there is a need for legislation in this area. I do not recommend the motion, but there is also a part in it that relates to retroactive force. The tax authorities have a firm policy that is not corrected if the debtor does not respond to information requests, despite having had several opportunities to do so. I do not think it is comme il faut to implement the retroactive force in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u27	With all due respect to the Secretary of State, I'm about to fall off my chair. The Secretary of State reads here a standard story that she received from her officials, while recognizing in the debate, following the example of the Ombudsman and all kinds of other specialists in this field, which is a huge problem here. Then she also indicated that she would meet the congregations in their call to help them make agreements, in anticipation of changing the laws and rules on this point. We have been waiting for this for almost two years. What does the Secretary of State's letter to the municipalities actually propose? Is she just going to have a cup of coffee with the municipalities and then leave them empty-handed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u28	I am looking very specifically at the text of Mrs Karabulut's motion. I am always asked whether I shall leave the motion to the Chamber or whether I shall abstain from the motion. I advise against this motion. Furthermore, I am of course in conclave with in this case the aldermen of the four largest cities in our country. They asked me whether, in the broad sense of the word, a pilot on debt relief could be looked at. I sent a letter to the Chamber about that. I assume Mrs Karabulut understands that I am going to speak with the aldermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u29	I do not understand at all these retreating movements of the Secretary of State, because she seems to forget that, without this cost of money, she has the opportunity to ensure that the absolute minimum of living is finally guaranteed and regulated in the Netherlands. This motion contains nothing more and nothing less than a problem identified by the Ombudsman, municipalities and debt relief workers. As far as the pilot is concerned, I would ask the Secretary of State to anticipate and agree on it, within the existing legal frameworks, so that the unwound foot is actively applied. In this way, even more debts and more misery will be avoided. I do not understand where this fear and restraint come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u30	In the AO we exchanged that I intend, together with a number of colleagues in the cabinet, to simplify the unwound footage. Like Mrs Karabulut, I see that this unwound foot is complicated and that it presents problems for debtors. I underlined in the AO that I have therefore applied for an additional execution test from the Tax Administration and that, on the basis of that execution test, I am looking at the implementation of the cost-sharing standard in the premium-free base. If you anchor that cost-sharing standard in the batter-free foot, the batter-free foot could, of course, become even more complicated. I have promised the Chamber that, as soon as I enter the execution test, I will let the Chamber know if I am anchoring the cost-sharing standard in the unwound foot. In short, I am in the process of giving real form and substance to the simplification of the unhindered foot. In addition, I would like to look with the aldermen who are implementing the Municipal Debt Assistance Act, at what further we can do to simplify business, including in the interaction with the Tax Administration. In the Karabulut motion in part No. 302 is requested by the Government to postpone the introduction of the cost sharing standard until 1 January 2016. I have actually already referred to this motion, because I have promised to the House of Representatives that, once the tax administration's execution test is in place, I will immediately let the Chamber know how or what. The cost-sharing standard would be introduced on 1 July 2015. I very much intend to let the Chamber know as soon as possible whether or not we are anchoring it in the impounded foot, because we simply need to know before 1 July. Otherwise we will have to adapt all kinds of things. So I'm doing the best I can to get that here as soon as possible. I'm dissuading the motion. In the Schouten/Van Weyenberg motion in part No. 303 calls on the government to consider how self-employed people can access municipal debt relief and to inform the Chamber before the summer. The Municipal Debt Assistance Act does not prohibit the admission ofzzp'ers. So there is no generic exclusion ground as it is called. There is, however, the financial services tozzp'ers. This is of course a good regulation, but it is not the case that self-employed people are excluded. The situation may arise that there is a viable undertaking on its own, but that no solution can be found for the debts arising from a combination of circumstances within the GDP. Then you can indeed get to work through the debt relief. Of course, it remains for the municipality itself to decide how to organise debt relief for the self-employed. At the end of April 2014, I sent the Working Method self-employed entrepreneurs with debt together with DIVOSA to the municipalities. It was also co-financed by SZW. A number of good examples are highlighted in this approach. In my next collection letter, I will ask the municipalities once again for attention from our cooperation partners. This letter will be sent to the municipalities within a few weeks. As Mrs Schouten and other spokesmen have made a strong point to thezzp'ers in general consultation, I also intend to give the position of thezzp'ers a prominent role in the evaluation of the Law on local debt relief that is to come. This is due to the debate in general consultation, I say equestrian.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u31	Thank you for that last commitment, but as far as I know, that evaluation has yet to begin. It will not be in the Chamber until next year. If we have to wait for that, we will be about a year and a half. The problem is now very serious. I would also ask the Secretary of State to discuss this with the NVVK, which points out that, althoughzzp'ers do not form an exclusion ground in the municipalities, they are virtually not admitted to debt relief. Does the Secretary of State recognise that debt relief can still be an opportunity for azzp's to make a kind of successful start as an entrepreneur, in the sense that they can simply continue their work and eventually earn their own living again? That's what we want. Does the Secretary of State recognise that debt relief offers an opportunity for this and does it not think that it should be much more insistent that municipalities simply include thezzp'ers in the debt relief routes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u32	In my opinion, it has to be real and-and. I have also spoken with people in the country who were in rather heavy weather with their company or company or more than that, but who have been well supported by municipalities by the Bbz again. We have brought the Bbz to the attention of municipalities once again. In my collection letter I will stress once again that both instruments exist, because self-employed people can also have a place in debt relief. There's no grounds for exclusion. I am therefore saying two things, namely that in my collection letter I will give the matter a big boost and that I will give thezzp'ers a prominent place in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u33	Thank you again for both commitments. I think this is a step forward. However, I would like to have an insight into the obstacles that the municipalities now experience to allowzzp'ers to do, where that does not happen. Then let me explain the motion a little more broadly, so that the Secretary of State might be able to do a little more with that. Is it prepared to consider, in consultation with, for example, the NVVK, how possible bumps in this area can be removed? Is she willing to explain the motion in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u34	I really need to look at the text of the motion. The text states that the self-employed must be able to access municipal debt relief services. That's already on the table. Mrs Schouten's justified question is how we can further enthuse the ranks for that. That is why I made both these commitments. I am pleased to report to Mrs Schouten that I would like to belong to the NVVK where several municipalities would find the prohibitive. I say it very carefully, because once again, on the basis of the law, accessibility is simply well anchored. I must formally discourage the motion because it also states that I will inform the Chamber before the summer, while I would like to use the evaluation to know very well where any bumps are. With the NVVK I am going to work, in the collective law I underline it and I use the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u35	They are very long interruptions, Mrs Schouten. That is why I hesitate to give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u36	I have not yet placed an interruption, because this is an issue for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u37	That's why it's a VAO. Anyway, go ahead, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u38	With the explanation given by the Secretary of State, I would say that she can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Well, I guess it's pretty much what I'm talking about. Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u39	My problem with the letter of the motion is that I would like to use the evaluation so that I can see exactly what obstacles municipalities could see in order to helpzzp'ers well. The text of the motion, as it now stands, I must advise against. But once again, we have taken steps forward in this debate. Perhaps it would be appropriate to look at the text of the motion for a resolution. I must formally discourage the motion now, but I have made a number of commitments in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u40	Mrs. Yücel, you also have a question about this motion? I actually want people only to ask questions about their own motion. This is a final debate. You have already had quite a wide-ranging debate with each other. That's why I usually don't allow such interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u41	I am not just placing interruptions, especially not at VAOs, but I would like to propose an interim solution. I can see the point of Mrs Schouten's motion. I also hear the Secretary of State making promises. Perhaps it would help if the Secretary of State sent a letter to the Chamber about the conversation with the NVVK, as an interim step to provide insight into possible obstacles. Then maybe that motion isn't necessary. I understand Mrs Schouten's point as well; perhaps it will take too long for us to understand how big the bumps are and where the solutions are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u42	Can there be a letter to the Chamber soon on the views of the NVVK?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u43	Of course, there's nothing against that, but I'm going first with the NVVK in conclave. I just promised. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 304, calling on the government to make an extra effort to encourage municipalities to include child packages in municipal poverty and debt policies. We are, of course, doing so. We can also look very closely at whether we can highlight potential child packages that are already being discussed in the country. This is policy support. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I've come to the end of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u44	I hear the Secretary of State say "support policy." I'm not filing any motions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u45	Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u46	Yes, but I would like to be clear from the Secretary of State that she welcomes the call for additional efforts, because that is what this motion is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u47	I didn't just say "support policy." I also said that I am going to look very closely at the best practices around the child packages, so that we know what we can tell municipalities. Then we can carry out the motion, because it calls on us to make an extra effort. That's why I'm saying, judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u48	What additional efforts does the Secretary of State intend to make? Can it give an indication, or can it come back to it later in a letter: with what objective? Then we'll make it all a little more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u49	At the moment, one in eight municipalities already has the child package on offer, in very different ways. I think it's a great thing. Together with the VNG, Divosa and the Children's Ombudsman, you can of course take a closer look at the content of a child package. Of course, this can vary from one municipality to another, but at least you can tell municipalities exactly what a child package might mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u50	Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State is going to make a quick scan of the state of play on the children's packages of municipalities and then share that overview with the Chamber and make any follow-up steps?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u51	That's a coloring of my words that I didn't mention...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u52	Well, I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u53	No, the Secretary of State is going to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u54	I have said that I can imagine looking at what a standard child package could be, so that municipalities can work with it and then decide for themselves whether that child package can be dealt with for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-30.u55	Thank you for your answers. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
