ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u1	I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, as well as the MPs, officials and people in the public gallery. Speaking time is four minutes per group, because this is a major debate. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. In December, the so-called Zorgwet died in the Upper Chamber. The Minister made no mistake about it: without this pillar under the main agreements, the intended goals, including the 1 billion savings, could not be achieved. It was a crisis. Now, just two months later, there is a new plan, a worthy alternative to the indispensable proposal on Article 13, according to the Minister. In my group, this care plan raises a lot of questions. The plan is very similar to a collection of measures, in which it is unclear how the proposals contribute financially, whether there is sufficient support for the parties involved and whether the route through the AMvBs does justice to the position of the States General. An opinion from the Council of State and a pass on of the plans by the CPB are necessary in order to reach a well-balanced opinion. Is the Minister prepared to do this? The deletion of Article 13 would be an essential element in achieving the 1 billion savings and sustainable cuts. The new plans must therefore also have a substantial saving effect. Is that the case? An improved risk settlement system should make it more attractive for insurers to commit chronically ill as insured persons. Chronically ill should not be a loss for insurers, without a doubt. It is undesirable for them to be discriminated against by negative risk selection. However, a better functioning risk settlement system has been sought for years. What makes it possible now? If the Minister wishes to have an improved settlement system operational for 2016, she should have an ex ante model ready for the summer. That's fast. Is that feasible? I'd like to get a response to this question. I am also curious about the costs for the government of this adapted settlement system. Another price incentive proposed by the Minister is to reduce the risk of chronically ill caring. It is not up to the Minister to decide on this, but to the health insurers. They have already expressed many objections in this part of the plan. The costs will be high, while it is unlikely that they will be fully compensated by even smarter care purchases. Who will be responsible for these costs? Do we not limit the free choice of doctors for people with little money without health insurance companies already contracting on quality? Nor is the search for a differentiated macro-management instrument (MBI) new. So far, it hasn't worked out. The feasibility of this proposal is therefore also questionable, especially in the short term. In short, the financial impact of the healthcare plan rages on all sides and raises a lot of questions. In addition, the care plan depends on the support of the concerned parties. As has been said, health insurers are extremely critical of the proposal to reduce their own risk. For the ggz there is not even a broad agreement anymore, because the Minister unilaterally denounced this agreement. The Minister proposes more integral ggz in collaboration with the GP. Does it have sufficient support for this? The financial consequences are also not easy to assess. On the basis of the quality proposals, I have previously called for a broad agreement on this subject. Indeed, more steps need to be taken in this regard. Yet in this care plan I see a lot of old wine in new bags. I'm rounding up. If I walk past the collection box of proposals and get the whole thing on feasible plans, there is actually a frighteningly little left. If the Minister finds this care plan a worthy alternative to the deletion of Article 13, that is something to think about. Was the removal of the free choice of doctors really such an important element in the main agreements or was it, above all, an ideological point of the sometimes somewhat dogmatic minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. The rejection of the proposed abolition of the free choice of doctors by the First Chamber on 16 December struck like a bomb. A majority of the Senate saw nothing in giving even more power to the health insurance companies and giving up the free choice of doctors or making an elite product of the free choice of doctors. There was a Christmas crisis and the argument was fought with the plan to try again. But with or without the senate's consent, it would go on anyway. I note today that the Minister did not dismantle the bomb that went off on 16 December with her new plan. Instead, it has turned it into cluster munitions: a set of ill-thought-out measures that are going to cause major harm to care. Instead of choosing solidarity, it continues on the dead end of more market forces, more power towards health insurers and competition. In fact, she still hangs a price tag at the right to choose your own doctor. The claim that these plans are now suddenly leading to better quality at lower costs is not based on anything. And where does the assumption come from that more purchasing power leads to quality improvement? Why should the ggz be saddled with immense bureaucracy? Does that make the quality better? Has the agreement with the Ggz, the main agreement, really been terminated now that the Minister himself seems to let go of Article 13? What lies ahead is a negotiation result of the Dutch Parliamentary Groups of the VVD and the Labour Party. Parties in care have not been heard. The First Chamber has been pushed aside, and even the dooge coalition has not been asked. What is left of the Minister who, by means of agreements, wanted to implement her plans with broad support? Is it true that there has been a much longer list of measures than the list we have been given today, which has been negotiated? Is the Minister prepared to send that total list to the Chamber? The Minister and the coalition are increasingly alone in their belief that it is the right way to allow more market forces and more competition in care. On the contrary, there is an increasing demand for government direction. The Minister has lost control of the health system and the health insurance companies have a serious lack of support. So the solution is not "more power to the health insurers," but the solution is "gone with the health insurers." The call for solidarity is also strong, so it is not the story that people have to give up their free choice of doctors if they cannot pay their own risk. In my opinion, this is unfair and, in the opinion of health insurance companies, the Netherlands is even unbelievable. They call it bureaucratic; Mrs Ellemeet also mentioned it. Besides, it's already possible. In the route time table we received today from the Minister, that's what it says. Wasn't it already known in the Ministry that a reduction of one's own risk could just happen? Then why did the Minister present this as something new in all her media appearances last Friday, something she had invented? It's been a long time. After years of denying that there is a problem with careful avoidance on financial grounds and that there is risk selection to keep expensive patients out of the door, the Minister suddenly turned. It intends to adapt the risk settlement so that chronically ill and elderly people become lucrative for insurers. With this, the Minister opens the perverse hunt for the most ill patient. She keeps looking for a solution within the system with blindfolds while we know that the system is the problem. There is now a plan of 21 measures, filled with a sauce of quality and transparency. However, one thing is clear: they are almost all measures by which the Minister takes the States-General out of play. She ignores the First Chamber and degrades the House of Representatives into a stamp machine. Is that really the new relationship of this minister with the States-General?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mrs Leijten has an extremely gloomy story. Unfortunately, that happens all the time. Now we know that the SP feels very differently about healthcare systems than the VVD. The SP wants to regulate everything through the State, the VVD believes more in a regulated market system, with a little more freedom of choice. However, I would like to ask the following question, apart from all these systems. There is now a package of measures that will ensure that it really pays to do more for chronically ill and other patients, which has the possibility of reducing their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u5	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u6	Those are really things the SP always pleads for. Would it perhaps be a good idea to say: hey, good proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u7	It is well known that the SP does not like the entire customer loyalty circus that we see all year round, with the advertising time in November and December. That is an expression of this system, which is to ensure that the most profitable insured, on whom you make the most profit, stays with you. There's no goodbye to that. It only shifts from sick and not healthy to old and ill. That doesn't make it any different, so we will continue to see that more than half a billion is spent on customer loyalty and advertising. I think that's a shame. That's why I'm saying don't find a solution in the system, that's the problem; find the solution out there. I am very much in favour of ensuring that chronically ill and elderly people are better served in our healthcare system. I just do not believe that the solution is to make them commercially attractive, as the Minister said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u8	Finally, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u9	I am afraid I have to conclude that the Socialist Party is ideologically opting for a revolution, while there was a great deal to be achieved by way of evolution. That's just too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u10	For years we have seen the hunt for the most healthy and the least ill insured. If it's up to the minister, we're gonna get the hunt for the most old and sickest patient. I think that's a dead end.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has put together a new care plan, a skillful piece of political craftsmanship. The minister first bet on the horse of the free choice of doctors, but that's before the finish through his hooves. Actually, the minister seems to be betting on a battery of horses, but where are those horses going? Are all these measures gonna make it to the finish line? It is actually a collection of measures that affect the whole of the concern. The technical terms are all over you: risk settlement, differentiated macrocontrol tools. It actually raises a lot of questions as to what these measures are going to mean in practice. The CDA finds it striking that the Minister chooses not to regulate many measures with the law anymore, but with an AMvB: actually 18 out of 21. This concerns the influence of health insurers, the transparency of health insurers and the quality of providers. This means that the Second and First Chambers do not really have a view on the impact of these measures. Is this an unconstitutional shortcut from the Minister? Is it prepared to opt for more legal safeguards? The CDA, like the Minister, considers it very important for chronically ill and disabled people to receive good care, but it now wants to seduce them by allowing health insurers to reduce their own risks. Why does the Minister specifically mention this group? I thought health insurance companies could do this a long time ago. They just don't do this. What is the Minister's reaction to the health insurers' remark that they see little chance of success in this measure? I would also like to say the following to the Minister. With the wrong diagnosis, you'll never get the right treatment plan. The question is not whether health insurers do not have sufficient power. The question is why health insurance companies use their power wrongly. The CDA, like the Minister, really attaches great importance to ensuring that care for people remains affordable. This plan must also ensure that we keep care affordable. Did the Minister have this plan passed on to the Central Planning Office? What did you get out of that? The CDA would also like to know which parties in the field the Minister has consulted on this plan. I've seen a lot of surprised reactions. What exactly was their input? How does this plan relate to the ggz agreement that has been terminated? The minister also pulled an old plan out of the mothballs. If too much money is spent in healthcare, health insurance companies will have to repay it without a contract. But we now have an investigation here in the Chamber, which simply shows that this will entail very high risks and huge discounts for new and small healthcare providers, with all the consequences up to and including bankruptcies, especially for mental health care. On the contrary, this measure strengthens even more the power of health insurers. What does this mean, for example, for identity-based Christian institutions? What does it mean for the access of new innovative healthcare institutions? Can the Minister send the country's lawyer's opinion on this to the House of Representatives in full? You can already hear it: this debate is just a kick-off. It's about a complex package of measures, a collection bin. The CDA still has a lot of questions about the acceptance, the finances and the parliamentary route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u12	At the beginning of her speech, Mrs Bruins Slot said that the chosen route would be unconstitutional. This is in line with what Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Leijten said. I think Mrs. Bruins Slot is a lawyer. Can she explain to me what is unconstitutional about a General Measure of Governance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u13	I asked the question whether the Minister chose the unconstitutional shortcut, because some of the measures that we would first regulate by law are now suddenly being introduced through the back door of a General Measure of Management. I think that's a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u14	The cases that would be dealt with in the law that was killed in the First Chamber are not now dealt with by AMvB. A number of issues included as an amendment are introduced as a policy rule through the NZa. I'm glad we can do this. But I want to go back. An unconstitutional shortcut suggests that something is being done that is contrary to the Constitution. A General Measure of Governance, some 400 of which pass through this house every year, is a normal part of our rule of law, isn't it? There's nothing unconstitutional about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u15	Most of the AMvBs do not pass the Lower House at all. The minister can just publish it. The point is that we wanted to lay down some very important tests for health insurers in the law, because it offers better guarantees. If you have the chance to opt for better safeguards in the law, it is preferable. I note that out of the 21 measures we have now received, only three are legally laid down. The other one goes through the back door. The front door's locked, so I understand the Minister's trying a basement window, but it doesn't feel right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. I've rarely seen a chicken hatch an egg so quickly. Now we're talking about the brood, so that's special. The NPCF has even called it a work agenda. My group welcomes the arrangements made this morning at the procedural meeting, namely that we will discuss very carefully the content of what the Minister has sent to the Chamber. I am using this main debate to ask a number of procedural questions. There will be no new, comprehensive law as we had and as it was killed in the First Chamber. It's possible. The Minister now chooses a slightly different route. On a subject that is so socially unraveling, the choice of a law in itself is a very logical one. The Minister isn't doing that right now. What's behind that? Is she afraid to run into a critical First Chamber again and is the debate being avoided in this way? I think it is a good thing that in this debate she is giving a clear answer to this question. A law in itself wouldn't be wrong. The previous law was titled Vertical Integration. In the First Chamber, the Minister even indicated that this should have been at the forefront, even if it was only about Article 13. Vertical integration is now somehow gone. I don't quite understand. I would like to know from the Minister why that is not in her action plan. Actually, I think it should be in there. It is arranged through AMvBs. That word has gotten a little infected, and that has everything to do with the debate we held after the law had been killed in the First Chamber. Then it was taken as a package leaflet: if a new law were to fall again, we would arrange it via an AMvB. That is absolutely not democratic and I would have gone for it. In itself, AMvBs can be used, but there must be a legal basis for them. I want to hear clearly from the Minister what legal basis she sees for the AMVBs she proposes. I actually want to advise her, even more so, to ask her to take away any appearance that she is going to work with AMvBs to get out of the way of difficult discussions and just hang them out. They will then be discussed in both the Second and First Chambers and the content can be discussed. I do not think the Minister is afraid of that either, because she wants to start the debate, as I have heard her say in many places over the last few days. I too am surprised at the fact that the care agreements, which have always been mentioned as a very important reason for moving in the direction that has finally taken place with the previous law, are suddenly less important. How did that happen all of a sudden? I am truly very surprised by that. We all know that the 1 billion in the imagery at the time was very much linked to Article 13. That was not right, because the 1 billion had to do with the proceeds of the healthcare agreements. That was the very clear drive to control the costs. Now all that is gone, so the care agreements are also under discussion. This can again have an impact on the way in which we want to manage costs together. I would like to be clear about this later. This also applies to a large number of assumptions in the plans, in particular the assumption of the lower own risk. I repeat, Mrs Leijten, that is already possible. It wasn't applied. There are also reasons why that did not happen. That seems to be complicated, especially on an individual level, but it also has to be paid. How are we gonna do that? Or are we in the process of presenting something that will ultimately not go on in practice? The position of insured persons vis-à-vis health insurers is an important point for us. That's what the minister's gonna do. Unfortunately, it is not now legally secured. We would have liked that much better. How does the Minister see that in substance? I've seen that she wants to finish this before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u17	Madam President. There's another short recess coming. This goes hand in hand with a debate on the quality and price of care. Maybe it'll be a tradition. After all, we know that, after the bill was rejected in the First Chamber, the big question before Christmas was what the follow-up would be like. We specifically asked the government in that debate not to take any shortcuts. In that sense, we are pleased that the original track has been left to choose the AMvB route and to arrange the same as in the law but via the route of the AMvB. It is not just a different process but also a different product, as I understand the Minister's letter. There is a new plan that still covers the same objectives: better quality of care and sustainable affordability. The disadvantage is that instead of one clear legislative path, a complex of very different measures has now been chosen. It is not surprising in itself that there is a different decision-making process, but it is quite a puzzle to see what will happen when. Other speakers have already mentioned this. We attach great importance to parliamentary purity. The history has raised a bit of mistrust in the sense that we are wondering whether this is not a way of putting Parliament out on the left or right. As far as we are concerned, the test is whether the individual measures we will see are the normal use of delegation provisions and not the extension of those delegation provisions. If it's okay, it'll come out in the Council of State's advice. On parts, the Minister is not obliged to involve the Lower House in the elaboration of AMvBs. I am thinking of the legal bases which do not provide for a legislative procedure. In view of the great importance and also in view of the past, I would ask the Minister to allow generous parliamentary involvement in everything that belongs to this package, whether it be a veil or not, in the formal sense. I would like to receive a response on this point. The letter raises many questions about the expected effects and the savings that the measures will bring. How harsh are the assumptions, both in terms of quality improvement and cost control? We are going to have another hearing, a technical briefing, which can certainly help to gain a better understanding of this. One point that immediately struck me: some municipalities offer the minima in the context of the minimum policy a health insurance without their own risk. If more municipalities do so, there is no longer any temptation for a part of the target group that health insurers can no longer attract with a lower own risk. In this sense, there is no cost reduction. What about such an element? How do health insurance companies look at the new plans? What is the basis for this package of measures? The SGP believes that it is closely listening to how the measures are being worked out. We therefore want to know more about this before we can make a definitive assessment of the measures. I would like to mention the issue of increasing quality standards. That in itself is an understandable idea, but the precise effect is very close. Will both large and small players be taken into account? Do innovative new players still have access to the market and identity concerns continue to be widespread? What are the Minister's plans to prevent large scale and the resulting deterioration of the care landscape? Will the amendments tabled on this point be fully accepted during the examination of the original legislative proposal? In short, questions remain with our group as well as with the proposed package of measures. We would like to hear the Minister's response to our comments and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr. Chairman. As a patient you want the best care and as an insured person you want a sharp premium. With the measures proposed by the Minister, high quality leads to better affordability. The VVD welcomes this. It is to be commended that the Minister, after the disappointment, did not get caught up on Christmas, but took up the gauntlet and now comes with a coherent package that contributes to improving the quality of care and thus to improving the affordability of care. This is very important, because in this way we will keep a wide range of care affordable and available to everyone and prevent the package from being reduced or its own risk being increased. It is a very comprehensive but also coherent package of measures. Previous speakers have already said this. The Chamber will be given detailed information in the coming weeks. This is necessary if all measures are to be properly assessed in detail. Tonight I shall confine myself to the main line, which is in fact summarized in two words: quality pays off. Quality pays because quality care is usually also affordable care. Quality pays because insurers will be more stimulated than they are today to commit patients and buy them the best care. Quality pays because those who opt for contracted care may have to pay a lower or no risk at all. Quality pays off because there is a significant acceleration in the development of quality indicators and because insurers allow them to lead the procurement process. Quality pays because for insured people and patients much more objective quality information becomes available and makes it findable, so that there is really something to choose. Of course, there is still a lot of detail to be worked out in the course of the discussion and implementation of individual measures. Above all, I would like to stress today that the VVD welcomes the fact that this package of measures will continue to guide us towards improving the quality and affordability of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u19	Quality pays off. You can repeat it as many times as you want, but whether you believe in it is a second. In any case, what pays is the customer loyalty and advertising of health insurance companies. Throughout the year, they spend half a billion dollars on it. The most young, healthy people want to bring them in, because they don't spend money on it. In that group they can gain margin, a commercial advantage, as the minister calls it. Why does the VVD think it is a good idea to make chronically ill and elderly people profitable?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u20	It is a very long introduction with a number of factual inaccuracies. There's not half a billion dollars in marketing and advertising. Mrs Leijten knows that, but she is very happy to repeat it over and over again. It's 50 million and the rest is spent on customer service. If that's even called marketing, we're in the middle of a very weird discussion. Apart from that, I would think that the SP is pleased that we are now taking measures, so that these insurers will no longer be focusing on all those healthy people, Mrs Leijten knows that I am also very much more concerned about this than I am about to work for the people for whom the health insurance is primarily intended, namely the patient. When insurers start focusing on that patient, because it does pay for them, it pays the insurer to buy them very good care, and it pays the patient to choose the insurer that does it best. That'll make us all better. That's why the quality pays.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mrs Leijten needed a long introduction, and you also had a long answer. Both the interruptions and the answers to them should therefore be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u22	Customer loyalty, marketing, advertising, sponsoring football clubs and television programmes cost half a billion. That's part of the system, the Minister says. You can find that. But now the point: the best insured for an insurer is the one who doesn't incur any costs. Then you can keep the premium one-on-one, because you don't have to pay it. A chronically ill man and an older man are always losing money. So how does Mr Rutte of the VVD think that chronically ill and elderly can actually produce a commercial return for health insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u23	I would think that after so many years of care spokespersonship for the SP, Mrs Leijten would now understand how settlement works. Already, for some healthy groups in certain age categories and with a certain level of education, compensation is negative. So an insurer who attracts a client like that has to put money in it. That is the negative settlement for some groups. It happens. What is going to happen now, at least that is what I read in the Minister's letter, is that this settlement is being moved as far as possible towards patient, which means that it is going to pay much more to bind that patient to you and it is going to pay much less than it is now to bind the healthy 30-year-old with a high education. That's good, because that leads to desired effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u24	Just on 14 December, we received a letter from the Minister stating that research shows that the overpayment of chronically ill patients does not reduce incentives for risk selection and does not necessarily improve the possibilities for care procurement policy. It doesn't work, it's in an earlier letter from the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u25	I read that letter, too. I am convinced that, because of the coherence of all the measures, it is a good measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u26	What is Mr Rutte basing this on? The risk settlement is the basis of the measure, but research shows that the Minister's solution is not working. She knew that on December 14th. Then why does Mr Rutte think it is going to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u27	There's a whole package for it. A total of 21 measures are concerned, in which settlement is an important element. In this connection and with that overall package, I believe that this is going to have a very large and important effect. I believe in that and I think it's important. We need to look at all the measures in a coherent way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u28	I hear Mr Rutte say that he thinks it is a good thing that insured people with a discount on their own risk make the choice of contracted care. What does Mr Rutte think about the fact that insurance companies make more than 90% of contracts on the basis of prices and that quality hardly plays a role in this contract? Isn't this how we create a division? On the one hand, the people who can afford it and do not need that discount at their own risk are on the other hand; they have a real free choice. On the other hand, people with a small wallet are forced to opt for the contracted care, without this being demonstrably better care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u29	In the overall package of measures, much more quality indicators are being used, and there are already 30 of them and insurers have undertaken to buy through them. Mrs Ellemeet believes that there is not enough money to buy in on quality. I'll share that with her. However, it is precisely in this package that this is going to happen much more and that an acceleration is being applied. That's very good. I got two questions, so I have to give two answers. The second is about one's own risk. If a patient wants to opt for very good care and if, as an extra support in the back, they get a lower risk of their own, then I think that is a very positive signal. I really don't understand why GroenLinks thinks that's bad, why GroenLinks wouldn't give people that advantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u30	GroenLinks is not the only one who thinks this is a bad idea. The health insurance companies have also questioned this instrument, in this way I am referring to the granting of a discount on the use of one's own risk. In addition, quality contracts must first prove themselves. I sincerely hope, with Mr Rutte, that there will be more contracts on quality. However, this is not yet the case. Isn't it the right order to have the health insurance companies prove themselves first, to have them prove that they buy and contract on quality, and then to give insured people the opportunity to opt for that quality contract? It should not be the other way round, where we are already sending insured people through an instrument that, according to insurers, will not work in practice and will generate high costs, without this now leading to better care for those insured.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u31	It's not a "first this, then that." We have to do it at the same time. The package has both sides. There are many more quality indicators, many more clues on how to contract along lines of quality, such as opportunities to finally resist as a party if you think you are wrongly not contracted. So we're doing a lot about that. That whole package will have to lead to a better quality of care in purchasing. I am very pleased that people can choose to do so and have a financial advantage in doing so. GroenLinks should also think that is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. If the new care plan makes one thing clear, it is that there is a great deal wrong with our healthcare system. That is remarkable to hear from this Minister. Apparently, she's over the denial phase. For example, the Minister admits that too large health care institutions have been created by mergers, that there is indirect risk selection, that there are too many problems in contracting and that medical errors and recovery operations make the care expensive. These are all problems which the PVV has been putting in place for years but which the Minister has always waved away. It is quite remarkable that the Minister admits that the high own risk affects purchasing power, causes payment problems and leads to care avoidance. The PVV welcomes the fact that the Minister is finally seeing this, but is not happy with the proposed solutions. There is only one measure here: to reduce the risk to everyone. Take the fraud for this! However, the Minister wants to reduce the risk only for people who dance to the bosom of the health insurance companies, supposedly because they know where the best care is provided. I don't understand how the Minister can keep it up. I pointed out last week that Achmea is sending patients to the Diaconesses House, an institution supervised by the inspection because the patients are at irresponsible risk in the operating rooms. Patients with lung cancer who want to go to the Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital are not allowed to do so by the health insurance company; if they go there, they have to pay for it themselves. Not only are the problems finally recognised, they are now suddenly urgent, so urgent that the usual course of a new legislative proposal will take too long in the eyes of the Minister. She is certainly afraid that she will not see the finish line anymore and therefore chooses the route of a so-called General Measure of Governance. Of course she does this not only because this is faster, but especially because it also puts the First Chamber out of play. How democratic is that? Both the content and the implementation of the new healthcare plan differ little from that of the voted-off proposal on the free choice of doctors. The plan is accompanied by beautiful words for patients. Measures are threatened if there is no support. Parliament is being bypassed and the debate is being avoided. The Minister is not just putting Parliament out of play. She also takes caregivers who work without a contract out of play. She takes care insurers who only offer restitution policies out of play. And she's outlawing patients with a small wallet. That's how we know the Liberal VVD Minister. The free choice of doctors is only for the rich. Finally, I have three specific questions for the Minister. Will our own risk be further increased? Is refund policies supposed to disappear? How is the 1 billion savings achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. On Friday we received a letter with the alternative interpretation of the cabinet for the dead bill that regulated, among other things, the adaptation of Article 13. That letter sets out 21 measures to improve the quality and affordability of care. As far as my group is concerned, that letter contains a number of good points. I would like to mention, for example, increasing the influence of insured persons on health insurers' policies, the legal anchoring of pgb in the Health Insurance Act and the transparency that health insurers have to offer about the care they buy. For that last point, I tabled an amendment to the legal process last year. However, the letter also leaves much to be desired. My group therefore still has the necessary questions about the precise impact. I will therefore focus on the main points tonight and have a number of questions after reading the letter. Are the measures contained in the letter materially the same as those laid down in the rejected bill? If so, why didn't the Minister choose this route in advance? These measures have not yet removed the uncertainty about the obstacle criterion. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. My group is pleased that the Minister has not resorted to an AMvB to settle the rejected bill. Mr Van der Staaij called that a shortcut. However, the Minister only regulates some of the 21 measures by law and still needs an AMvB a number of times. In the opinion of D66, AMvBs are intended for technical matters in execution, not for essential matters, especially after the false start made after the law amending Article 13 was killed in the First Chamber. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this and whether she also thinks that these measures are appropriate. Much attention has been paid to the measure to reduce its own risk for people who go to a contracted healthcare provider. However, there are a lot of hooks and eyes to that. It can be done now, but it turns out it's complicated for health insurers to carry out. They're either not doing this or they're barely doing it. How is the minister gonna get health insurance companies to do this? My group is also concerned whether reducing its own risk on balance will not lead to an increase in the premium for everyone. The Minister says that she does not expect that, but the lower own payments on the one hand have to have higher yields somewhere else. I would like to hear from the Minister on which she bases her expectations. Does it want to have this tested independently, for example by the Central Planning Bureau? The main agreements and the related rejected bill were subject to budgetary savings of EUR 1 billion. The Minister himself has already indicated that she considers the main agreement for the ggz to be cancelled. Friday's letter does not make it clear whether and how the 21 measures produce the same results. We would therefore like to have a comprehensive financial underpinning of the budgetary implications. The Minister has given her letter the title "Quality pays." If you try to look at all 21 measures from some distance through your eye hairs in any context, then by far the majority of measures are not really new. These are measures which have often been reviewed and which the Minister wanted to get to work on. Which of these 21 measures are the most important coherent ones to ensure that insurers actually start buying on the basis of quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u35	I can see Mrs Leijten at the interrupting microphone before you start.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u36	I have a question for Mrs Bouwmeester. We've been standing here just before the summer...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u37	Is this a procedural remark?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u38	I have a question for Mrs Bouwmeester. Before the summer, we discussed the bill that was put out in the First Chamber. During the examination of that bill, Mrs Bouwmeester accused me of being frightened, because I said that the free choice of doctors became unattainable for people who could not afford it. These were exactly the arguments put forward by Mrs Bouwmeester's party colleagues in the Senate to vote against this bill. Does Mrs Bouwmeester think that Mrs Ter Horst, Mr Duivetteijn and Mrs Linthorst are also scared?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u39	I am not commenting on my colleagues across the street. It's good practice not to. I do not think it would be useful to comment in public through the President and through Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u40	During that debate before the summer, Mrs Bouwmeester said that I would not know the documents, that I would distort the facts and that I would do scare-making, because I criticised the fact that there was a division between those who could afford the free choice of doctors and those who could not. That was scary. None of that was true. But these were the arguments of, among others, those three senators of Mrs Bouwmeester's party as the majority in the Senate to say: no, this bill does not have to pass. Does that majority in the Senate do scare-making?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u41	It's tempting to refute some of the inaccuracies I just heard, but I'm not gonna do that. The fact is that the doctor choice that was there remains. People can choose from thousands of general practitioners, thousands of medical specialists, thousands of people working in the ggz, thousands of nurses, thousands of district nurses and a whole range of medical staff. People who want to choose can keep doing that. The downside is that we know that people don't want to choose at all. They just want the guarantee that they get good care around the corner. That is what this proposal is about. If the President is okay with it, I will go into that in my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u42	No, Mrs Leijten, I suggest that Mrs Bouwmeester start her speech now. You have the opportunity to interrupt, but even before she started, you asked questions. I know you have the right to ask questions, but this is not common practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u43	But may I make another comment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u44	Yes, you may make a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u45	These are factual inaccuracies. The people who read the short-term report of the law before the summer will see that Mrs Bouwmeester accused me of being scared, not knowing the law and distorting the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u46	You've made your point. I now give the floor to Mrs Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr. Chairman. Better quality of care for chronically ill, lower costs and a firmer position of insured and healthcare providers, while remaining the current choice of doctors; solidarity and affordable in the longer term. For these reasons, the Labour Party agrees with the main thrust of the plan. The most important thing about this proposal is that it is now at last about the essence, namely good care; good as a basis. We have the best care system while maintaining solidarity and long-term affordability. This means that the system can grow from good to the best system, especially for those who are so dependent on it: the chronically ill and the people with high care use. The Minister proposes measures to ensure that quality is a guiding factor in purchasing. The Labour Party has always said: quality pays, quality pays. That is what we are now building in, so that quality actually contributes to better care and cost sustainability. The condition for a positive result is that the parties will find each other in the interest of quality. They must not only find each other, but also trust. This means that a health care provider offering the gold standard must also get a contract from the health insurance provider. A health insurance provider must commit to this so that the patient can rely on the very best care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u48	Of course, both the CDA and the PvdA believe that chronically ill and disabled people deserve the best care. The Minister introduced two measures: on the one hand, the own risk and, on the other hand, the need to increase funding for chronically ill and disabled people in the risk settlement. But we have already received a report from the Minister stating that this is not feasible, and that it does not lead to better care procurement and not to less risk selection. How does Mrs Bouwmeester view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u49	Those are legitimate questions. It saves me speaking text again. Mrs Bruins Slot's questions are my questions. I think it is important that the Minister responds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mrs Bouwmeester started her introduction by saying that it is going to mean a lot to chronically ill and disabled people. The foundation lies in the one measure, which Mrs Bouwmeester already has questions about. What is it going to do if it turns out that it is indeed not possible to implement it properly in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u51	I share the technical questions. It is important that the Minister responds. As far as we are concerned, however, the foundation lies elsewhere. If you have a chronic disease, for example, if you are diabetic, it's not just about the risk equivalence of health insurance companies. It is therefore about how healthcare insurers, patients and caregivers are made to see how they organise care for you well. Chain care, cooperation, coordination, the first line close to home: we know that guaranteed to provide better care for someone who needs it. That's where the stimulus needs to go. Unfortunately, there is a need for an incentive; I think we share the displeasure about it. That's what makes care for people better. As far as we are concerned, the qualitative improvement on which people must be guaranteed confidence is the basis of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u53	I just said that the patient should be able to trust that good care is bought in and offered. This requires openness from the care providers and quality agreements of the health insurance companies. A health insurance company should also have an effective influence on procurement policy. When a health insurance company listens to patient groups, patients and healthcare providers, its procurement policy gets better. After all, these people have a sense of quality and can strengthen the health insurance provider. How will the Minister ensure that parties find each other, trust each other and tempt each other to make binding quality agreements? This proposal could lead to good concern. For the care provider who offers it, for the health insurance provider who purchases it but above all for the patient. For the patient, this proposal can pay in two ways. Initially, it can lead to better quality. That is at the heart of this proposal. Secondly, it can lead to lower costs due to a lower own risk. The Labour Party believes that this is a matter of solidarity. The question is how we achieve this. The Labour Party is concerned about the feasibility of a lower own risk. The Minister is taking a very good step, but Health Insurance companies The Netherlands does not seem to want to take that step with her. The question is whether it is the dome that is opposed because individual health insurers turn out to be more positive. So I'm not quite sure who's against it right now. But the key question is: how does the Minister ensure that the health insurers take that good step together and with her? No power without counterpower. It is therefore right that the position of insured persons should be strengthened by a complaint notification point at the NZa and that the position of the care provider should be strengthened by allowing him to go to a dispute committee in the event of disputes with the health insurance provider. Are these complaints also used as input for risk-driven supervision after they have been individually resolved, so that health insurers know that there is a double check? The proposal will be worked out shortly. We will assess it on four conditions. Is there any insight? So do people know what the policy is, what the qualitative offer is and what it means to them? Is there an overview? So can people clearly see the difference between policies and the offer? Is there monitoring of quality, access and affordability? And is there balance? This means that there can be counterpower against the health insurance provider, i.e. that the triangle is in order. This proposal has everything to do with the best care, which is mutually supportive and sustainable in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u54	I hear Mrs Bouwmeester say that she thinks it is important that there is also an overview and insight. Now that can be organised by drastically reducing the number of policies. That can be arranged quickly and we do not have to wait long for it. I share with Mrs Bouwmeester that this is a condition for putting the insured person in a real position. Does Mrs Bouwmeester agree with me that we should give priority to this and that it should be part of strengthening the position of the insured?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u55	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u56	So you agree with me that we should now arrange for the number of policies to be reduced. If so, will we jointly propose this to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u57	I don't agree with you on that. We have received a letter from the NZa stating that the NZa, on behalf of the Minister, is investigating the number of policies and a way to show people through the trees again. I am asking for an overview, because I think it is so important that we will soon be able to see on the basis of that proposal that people understand what types of policies there are, what their quality is and what the guaranteed wide range of services is. Then people will know where they are in advance and people will no longer have to deal with surprise bills or other unclear stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u58	The remarkable thing about the Minister's care plan is that, on the basis of a number of assumptions, it proposes measures that strengthen the position of insurers. What it does not do is, on the basis of a number of assumptions, strengthen the position of insured persons by giving them a better overview of the policies. Then why does Mrs Bouwmeester agree that, on the basis of a number of assumptions, the position of insurers is only strengthened by extending their powers? Why else does she agree that the position of the insured person is not actually strengthened in the way it could be?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u59	The interesting thing about this proposal is that the health insurance company's power will be reduced and that of the patient and the insured person will be strengthened in relation to the current situation. After all, we are going to have a dispute committee for the providers. There isn't, because you have to sign at the cross when you're offered something. At the same time, there will also be a hotline at the NZa. There isn't now, but there will be later. There is no consultation with health insurers in general policy, the appointment of the Supervisory Board and the procurement policy, but it will be settled in due course. But once again, Mrs Ellemeet is right to say that there is now a jungle of policies. As a result, people can't really compare insurance and they don't actually see the forest through the trees anymore. I very much agree with her and I therefore think that the health insurance companies really should take a step forward. I should say ten steps faster. The NZa will come up with recommendations on exactly what to do for this and I am waiting for them. If the results are known, we need to look further. Perhaps the Minister will come up with a good proposal or we can come up with a better proposal. I would like to see that with Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u60	The essential points of limiting the power of health insurers and restoring the balance needed for a well-functioning system are not addressed. I hope that Mrs Bouwmeester will agree with me on any additions to this care plan to restore that balance of power and limit the power of insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u61	In my speech, I have said a number of times that the triangle needs to be rebalanced. It doesn't work until it's done. I find it disappointing that care is about the patients, but that those patients know the least and therefore have the least control. The balance has to be restored, because the people it is about really need to be given much more influence and control. How do you realize that? You do this by giving patients insight into the quality and giving them control over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u62	Mrs Bouwmeester concluded with four criteria on which the impact should be assessed. There was a little bit of a threat in it: "The support of the Labour Party is not quite sure yet. Minister, pay attention!" Anyway, we'll see about that. I will come back to what Mrs Bouwmeester said about the own risk, the lower risk and the noises of the health insurance companies that this is difficult. There is much to be said about this, but one thing is clear: it costs money. It will have to be paid in one way or another and I would like to hear what Mrs Bouwmeester thinks about this. How would she respond to a plan that says it can be lower, without her seeing how money comes in?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u63	That is a very fair question. I didn't put it in front of the minister, although it was on my list. I am therefore curious to see what the Minister is replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u64	It is, I think, more logical that we should now speak to the Minister, because he has presented a plan in which these kinds of assumptions are present, when it is very doubtful whether things will work, especially when you put things in place that you are not even talking about yourself. Then it becomes completely difficult to get a grip on how things are going to work in the future. Let us then pass those questions on to the Minister, and let us see how hard the proposals that we have with us today are and what we are questioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u65	That is right, as I said in my first reply to Mr Slob. But I would also like to say the following. The Minister gives the signal that she wants to see if there will be a policy, apart from the broad basic policy for everyone, which is better for certain types of chronic patients, such as COPD patients, and which is very specific to their situation. Healthcare insurers are therefore stimulated and people with high care consumption as well. I think that's a very positive signal. I'd like to say that for a moment. It's new. It's a change of heart. The most excited are those who need care the most. This while we were angry for years about certain types of policy that focused on young and rich people. Hip, hot and happening, let me just say. Very nice, but not with our bounty money. Mr Slob, I have often spoken against it. My party, the PvdA, believes that one of the measures taken by the Minister concerns its own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u66	I still think it's amazing that you have to sell out your free choice of doctors if you can't afford your own risk. That is a new form of limiting the free choice of doctors, but by another route. My question, however, is another one. In presenting this plan, it has been said that there will be a new policy with a lower own risk for people who are chronically ill and cannot pay their present own risk. Mrs Bouwmeester's party leader, Mr Samsom, said at Buitenhof that this plan is really better. However, this can be done for a long time. Was Mrs Bouwmeester aware when the plan was presented on Friday of the fact that this proposal is not a new proposal and that it can be proposed for a long time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u67	It's not about whether it's new or not. Nor is it about that one measure, as I said to Mr Slob. We are concerned about improving the quality of care. I think the SP could be very pleased with that. The quality of care for people who are chronically ill or who have a high level of care consumption can be increased. Unfortunately, there is no incentive for this in the current system. So the question is whether we can do better. Yes, we can do better: we are going to invest in quality. As far as we are concerned, the emphasis in this plan is on quality. Good quality is important for a patient. Quality must be rewarding. That's what we're gonna have to send.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u68	I have made it very clear in my speech that there is also a great call for solidarity. You should have solidarity with chronically ill and elderly people who have always lost their care costs and always have to pay that high own risk. Since they cannot afford it, they are now forced to go to the doctor who has chosen the health insurance company. I think that abolition of free choice of doctors by means of a detour. My question, however, is another one. In presenting this plan, it was said that the new policy with the lower own risk is good for our chronically ill. It's also presented as something new. Mr Samsom said at Buitenhof: that makes this plan really good. But last Friday, when the plan was presented, the Labour Party knew damn well that the proposed can be done long ago and thus nothing new? Is it not true that in recent days the PvdA and the Minister have been guilty of a new care commercial that may pass the test of the Advertising Code Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u69	What is solidarity is that we are going to invest in people who need care most, who depend on care because they use it for a long time and a lot. This is how these people get better care, which is more coherent and coordinated. That's quality. That's what it's about. If the quality is better, those people are proven to be helped. If you can also make sure that people opt for better care with the link to their own risk, they opt for better care or a general policy, but if they want better care, then the risk may be reduced. That's win-win! That is solidarity! So people choose quality with lower costs. That's one of the possibilities. The idea behind that is... you can also say: I have a supply closet full of food and I always make pancakes out of it, but if you do anything else, you have a farm omelet. You can, because it's fine if you make something different from the things that can already be done. There are now two ways in which we are trying to encourage chronically ill to have a policy that is better quality, that helps people and lowers costs. I hope that Mrs Leijten agrees with us that this could be something that you want to give the chance of success, rather than torching it off immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u70	Mrs. Leijten, your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u71	I really do not understand how to follow the choice of your health insurance provider because you cannot pay your own risk, is a form of solidarity. We will see whether there will be quality in the future, but the pure PvdA sound should be: the people who have no choice, who are chronically ill or old and who have care costs in any case should be excluded from our own risk. Wouldn't that be a much better way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u72	I think you should make sure that people get good care in the first place. This proposal has all the ingredients in it to improve quality. The Minister stimulates quality, understanding and access in all possible ways, while at the same time reducing costs. So let us say to the Minister: 'That is a very important and positive signal! Work that out for us. We like to see how that works out." Until then, there is compensation care costs and compensation own risk. You should always keep an eye on that. Before that, I fought with several people in this Chamber. There will also be an examination of the general practitioners. But we think this signal is very positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mrs Leijten, a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u74	The people who have seen my contribution to the debate know that I think it is a dead end to give more power to health insurers and to organise less solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u75	I have also mentioned the list in response to Mrs Ellemeet. The position of insured persons and healthcare providers vis-à-vis health insurers has never been as strengthened as it is now. That is also necessary, because, as I said, health insurers have a major problem of legitimacy. They must also take a number of steps forward, but let us also welcome the steps taken to balance the balance of power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u76	It almost looks like a broadcast from Heel Holland Bakt. Mrs Bouwmeester is defending the Minister's new measures like a lioness. Isn't Mrs Bouwmeester more pleased with this plan than limiting the free choice of doctors? Looks like it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u77	I hear a lot of questions about technology and own risk and systems, but I'm people's. My party is very happy that the change is now being made to the investment in quality, because quality is so important to people and because quality always pays off. I'll stand for that like a lioness, please. If I have to do more to make even more quality, I'll become a tiger next to a lioness.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u78	It's almost a zoo! It's interesting. Mrs Bouwmeester says that there are two important conditions that will give chronically ill people a policy of genuine care. The first condition is one's own risk, the second is risk settlement. I heard her say that clearly. Mrs Bouwmeester has just said: I do not know if that is going to fly completely, so I am going to ask the Minister. As regards the own risk, Mrs Bouwmeester said to Mr Slob: I am not quite sure whether the financial transfer is entirely correct, so I am going to ask the Minister. How is it that Mrs Bouwmeester now says that this is the ultimate plan, when, if you ask for the basis, she actually doubts whether it is going to fly all the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u79	That assumption is incorrect. I didn't just say that. My assumption is that it's about quality, that quality pays off and that you have to do everything you can to promote quality. That also requires some of the caregivers. This requires them to understand what they are doing and what their impact is. This requires that they can negotiate on quality together in the first line. That requires that this be allowed. This requires health insurance providers to reward those who are open and do their best as soon as that golden standard is offered. That's the system. It's about quality. You have all kinds of technical questions. That's okay, but I'm betting on that quality, because it pays off. That is the way for us to improve the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mrs Bouwmeester keeps saying that it's so great that health insurers buy on quality. How does she feel about Achmea sending her insured persons to the Diakonessenshuis, the hospital under the supervision of the Health Care Inspectorate? And why is that under surveillance? Because patients in the operating room were at irresponsible risk. What does Mrs Bouwmeester think about Achmea not sending lung cancer patients to the specialist Antoni van Leeuwenhoek hospital? Is that quality shopping she's talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u81	I understand Mrs Klever's concerns very well. My input is precisely that it is necessary to ensure that we are able to make a demonstrable purchase on quality. I did not say that this is happening already, even more so, the NZa said that it is not happening. We talked about that. So it's still going to happen. The building blocks and the stick behind the door are in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mrs Bouwmeester hopes that health insurers will start buying on quality. That is what the entire Chamber hopes, even more so, for two and a half years now the Chamber has been asking for quality criteria. There aren't any yet. So the health insurance companies can't even buy on quality. They keep buying at a price. I have just given these two examples of the Diakonessen house under supervision and of the Antoni van Leeuwenhoek hospital where people are not allowed to go. People with a small wallet are the victims of this, aren't they? They're being sent to a hospital under supervision because they can't afford their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u83	This proposal provides the building blocks for the legitimate concerns that you have. People don't know what quality is at all, they can't see that. Nor can they choose. We can make people choose from a thousand doctors, but that drives them crazy. The NIVEL investigation has shown what they want. If people have something, they want to go to the nearest hospital. They also want to be helped as quickly as possible and be better as soon as possible. That's a very logical wish. It is precisely because of the concerns that you and I have that there are building blocks in this letter so that quality is bought in and stimulated. That requires some of the health care providers and the health insurance company. It also asks that a patient or insured person be better helped, so that he chooses quality. You're right. We've been asking for that for two years. Now it's there. I think that is a very good first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u84	I find it special that Mrs Bouwmeester thinks she knows which hospital people want to go to and that they always want to go to the nearest hospital. If you have cancer, you just want to go to the best hospital, not the nearest hospital. Healthcare insurers have already shown that they buy not the best hospital, but the cheapest. Can Mrs Bouwmeester indicate in what way this proposal will lead to them buying not on price but on quality? I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u85	Excuse me, I don't think I expressed myself very well. The results of a NIVEL study were published in December. People have been asked where they want to go when they're sick. They have also been asked whether they want to choose or not. People primarily indicated that they prefer to go to the hospital that chooses their GP and to which their GP refers or just to a hospital nearby. Of course, they go to an academic hospital for high-complex care. I'm glad you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mrs Bouwmeester cannot identify any point on the basis of which the health insurance companies are actually going to buy not on price, but on quality. Healthcare insurers buy in at price. People with a small wallet are screwed. They are sent to the cheapest healthcare provider because they cannot pay their own risk. That does not seem to me to be so social of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u87	I'm sorry, I didn't answer that question. It was also a series of questions. Mrs Klever asks me what measures in the Minister's letter should lead to quality? That's what he's doing in registering these 300 quality indicators and speeding up the adoption of 30 guidelines with professionals and patients. It's also in setting extra quality requirements in advance, so we don't get what we had the other day: that home care in Almere that could just start without having been tested in advance. It is in making the quality transparent, inserting patient reviews. It is his task to strengthen ex post supervision; that is the quality control of the IGZ. Measures are being taken at the NZa and the ACM to prevent organisations from becoming too large; this fusion drive is being addressed because it often does not lead to more quality but to large, larger, largest. For the rest, I refer Mrs Klever to the other 20 measures contained in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u88	I share the importance Mrs Bouwmeester attaches to quality. I think that for all of us, the more quality in care, the better. We're all behind that. As far as I am concerned, we are making a separate broad agreement on this and giving it even more priority. Fine. However, we are debating the Minister's care plan which replaces the infamous Article 13 which had to be deleted. This was an important part of the plan aimed at saving 1 billion, the main agreement. That plan had to contribute to that goal. This plan should also contribute to that goal of the final saving. Unfortunately, this is mainly about those technical elements, i.e. the Minister's proposal to reduce own risk and improve the risk settlement system. In that sense, the fine words about quality are not the core. We need to talk about the measures proposed by the Minister who have the aim of achieving that saving. Should Mrs Bouwmeester not acknowledge that this is an important part of the plan? That focus on quality is very nice, but if these two major measures cannot be implemented, then we are empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u89	The goal is good care. The cure is a better care policy. I mentioned the example of COPD, but I can also take diabetes as an example. If people with diabetes get a better policy, they get better care. That also saves a lot in the end. Luckily, people don't have to wander through that whole care system. That's very positive. The resources that the Minister wants to use on both sides to achieve this good policy are an incentive for the health insurance provider and an incentive for the insured person to opt for that good policy together. This is an investment in quality, for which the two technical means that Mrs Ellemeet rightly refers to are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u90	That's what it's all about. By means of this, we are trying to achieve the goal. That goal is quality. I share that with Mrs Bouwmeester. Those resources are crucial. Without these resources, we are standing here empty-handed. That is why I am asking Mrs Bouwmeester: should we not give priority to these resources and test whether they really lead to the desired result and the desired goal?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u91	I very much agree with Mrs Ellemeet. Quite frankly, the Labour Party is also upset that health insurers do not say by themselves: we are going to make good policies, together with patient associations and patients. If they were to make a policy with them, it would join. We regret that this is not just happening. Apparently, there's more to it than that. The Minister acknowledges this and is committed to it. She's sticking her neck out for that. We only think that is a very good signal. We also understand very well all the technical questions that people are asking about this. We will certainly put it in that technical briefing. The point I want to make here is that a very important problem is addressed here: care for chronically ill people can be better. Apparently, that doesn't happen on its own. So we have to do something for that; an incentive on both sides. We're curious how that works out.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u92	I have another procedural point. Mrs. Bouwmeester is the last speaker, isn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u93	That's right. She's ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u94	So I'm free to go?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u95	I would like to ask another question, if Mrs Bouwmeester wishes. That's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u96	You have one last interruption, but you do not need to use it. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u97	I find it interesting that Mrs Bouwmeester is talking all the time about the new policy, the policy that is going to solve all the problems. How does Mrs Bouwmeester look at the fact that chronically ill and disabled people are finding it increasingly difficult to take out adequate supplementary insurance? What solution is in this plan to achieve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u98	A good basic policy prevents people from looking for all kinds of other alternatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u99	Mrs. Bruins Slot, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u100	So Mrs Bouwmeester is actually saying that no health insurance company is currently offering a policy to help chronically ill and disabled people?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u101	No, it's not that black and white, but I can see that care for chronically ill and for people who use a lot of long-term care can be improved. If you can do that as a health insurance company by making a certain policy for a particular target group on the advice of those patients and patient groups themselves, then you get a really good policy, so our firm conviction is that the quality can be increased. The question is, how do you achieve that? There is now a proposal, but we are very open to anyone who has a better proposal. We think the goal is very important. The quality needs to be raised, the understanding of quality needs to be improved and all ambiguity surrounding policies must be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u102	Mr President, I have another procedural point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u103	We'll finish this first. Thank you, Mrs Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u104	The Minister is always very well supported by officials. It is therefore a good thing that when I refer to a letter, I should just like to make it clear which letter that is. It saves search work. It is the letter of 25 November 2014 in document No. 560 (29689).
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you. I hope the officials will remember that soon. There's nodding. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u106	Mr. Chairman. We are discussing today the plans to replace the bill, commonly referred to as the Health Act, which was rejected by the First Chamber in December. Of course I found that very unfortunate, because I had the conviction, and still have, that it was a very good law that would improve the quality of care, as well as affordability. We started the law years ago, it was drawn up together with the CDA and PVV, and over the years the law has been supplemented with amendments on quality and transparency. The law has become much wider than it was originally intended. When the law was rejected, I began to think from the content. What would bring the same objective of affordability and quality closer? How could we best realize that? That second question didn't come until after that. First of all, it was about the content. It was a practical question, also because the urgency is high. The urgency to improve quality must be high. The urgency of maintaining affordability must be high. So we've been looking at how to do that at some pace. So we first looked at the content and then at the way you can do it. It turned out that a lot of things are actually already in legislation and have already been approved by the Upper House. We had arranged a number of things in the law, because we were making a law and legal regulations could be incorporated into it. However, we could also deal with these matters in other ways. Those are not illegal ways, because the possibility of AMvBs has been created to regulate these kinds of things. I have no need to suggest that the motivation would be that I should want to circumvent the Chamber. Despite the fact that almost all AMvBs do not need a backup, I am happy to send them to the Chamber so that we can debate it and then come to a conclusion. That's what I'll do with these AMvBs. The measures we have now implemented in the package have become more complex. It is not that we are introducing the law that did not go through in a different way now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That is why we have sought other methods, which are sometimes much more complex. I refer to the adjustment of the risk settlement system. That's a very complex exercise. What is not regulated by this package of measures, and what was included in the law, is clarity about the obstacle criterion. In what situation is what percentage acceptable? We are not going to resolve the fact that insurers and healthcare providers are regularly in court with these measures. That could have been solved if we had introduced the AMvB that was discussed in the Chamber in December instead of the law, and we had decided to set the obstacle criterion. I could have, but I didn't choose to. I have chosen this package of measures. This means that we are not putting an end to the legal battle that is being fought on this subject. The letter is a very coherent package of measures aimed at improving quality and efficiency. It's a big package, but a big part of the package actually comes out of the law. The law was voted down because they did not want to amend Article 13, but there were, of course, a lot of issues about transparency and other subjects in the law, which were widely supported by the Chambers. You'd want to keep that going anyway. We still want to see how we can improve the purchase of care. Let's be honest. The backbone of our system is competitive insurers competing on purchasing, namely on price and quality. They're doing that pretty successfully. Despite the fact that we are critical of the system and I also come up with a package of measures, the results of our system are very good internationally. We score very well on quality and we also score well on efficiency in curative care. Even if we look at it nationally, we can see that we have been well below the estimates in recent years. That is quite unique for public health. The measures we have taken are different from those of many years before. At that time, we were always looking for it in the form of a package-out, an increase in our own risk or that kind of thing. Now we have operated fairly successfully by agreeing in broad agreement with the field to collect these funds not through the patient but through the system. I'd like to continue that road. We have a better quality in the Netherlands, but also a very high level of solidarity in the system. I am proud of that too, and I would like to keep it. The package has four main parts. I'll start with the patient's position, which needs to be strengthened. There are a lot of things in the old law, namely the transparency of the policy, so that you know what you choose, and the transparency of the purchase by the health insurance company. I say to Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Slob that these are key letters, but in my directions to the NZa I also take with me the agreements made through an amendment in the previous legislative proposal on philosophy, innovation and small and large.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u107	It is extremely important that we can talk about transparency requirements and identity-related care. But that goes back to the Dutch Healthcare Authority by means of rules. So that is not put in the Second and First Chambers to continue talking about whether that is in the right direction. Is the Minister prepared to submit these measures to the States-General first?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u108	If a policy measure goes to the NZa, it can of course also go to the Lower House. I don't think that's a problem. But I can already predict that they will be very similar to what we would have wanted in the law. That is why I am also saying that a number of aspects which are not explicitly mentioned in the letter because it is a letter on the main lines will return to the assignment to the NZa, which I can also send to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u109	I also just heard the Minister say: I am not going for the constitutional shortcut; I would like to enter into the debate on what I am going to arrange for General Measure. Do I understand correctly that the Minister is going to send the AMvBs to both the Second and the First Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u110	Yes, I did, because I said rooms. I don't care if I don't want to discuss things with the Chambers. I care about the pace. The possibility to create an AMvB has already gone through the Rooms. The Second and First Chambers have already concluded that that is possible. I'm going to make use of the AMvB capabilities contained in those laws, but even though it's not necessary, I'll send them to both chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u111	On the list of measures, which also set out how things are going in time, we have seen that they are 21 measures. Three of them go through a General Administrative Measure and three through legislation. So that's 6 out of 21. The Minister says that it is not the intention to take the States General out of play. But in the other fifteen cases, how does it deal with the debate with the States-General, I mean the Second and the First Chamber, to see if there is sufficient support, whether there is a majority for such policy rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u112	Since this is a package that I have presented, which we are going to work out and which we are going to introduce, we will also send it to the Chamber with a progress report. So she can see where we are in the process, what we have already proposed, what the Chamber can expect and so on. For example, it remains well informed about this package of measures, even if they are not legislation or AMvBs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u113	The Minister is talking about a progress monitor. I know how that goes. These are often consultations where a lot of documents and reports are on the agenda. In such consultations, it is not a question of principle which direction one goes, nor is it a question of whether one says yes or no to a legislative proposal. Of course, this is not something the Minister regularly discusses with the First Chamber. The Minister deals with the legislative process in three cases. The AMvBs want to be in both chambers. She says she does not want to avoid the debate with the States-General, both the First and the Second Chamber. What is it going to do in the 15 other cases to conduct the debate on these measures in both the Second and First Chambers?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u114	Let me take a look at these measures. I would like to mention paragraph 6, on the Healthcare Institute, which develops the transparency calendar. The Court will very soon receive the relevant plan. That will be discussed in detail here, because I am sending that plan to the Chamber in the extended form. In paragraph 6 it is said that the plan is being drawn up in cooperation with the field, but that will be a letter to the Chamber which I have already promised for a long time, and we are going to discuss it extensively. I also mention the NZa's customer-friendly counter. Of course, we are going to discuss the changes at the NZa in detail in the Chamber on the basis of the findings of the Borstlap Committee. That point of contact is discussed in detail. So there is no cover-up at all. All these points will be discussed in detail at the place where that part is at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u115	In my contribution in the first term, I asked whether it is intended that a stamp machine should be installed in the Lower House. Here we have a majority of PvdA and VVD, so the plan does not have to have the support of the whole of the States-General. That's what my question was about. My question was not how we discuss the plans here, but how the Minister ensures that the Senate is sufficiently involved in the plans and also has the right of assent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u116	I do that by sending the AMvBs, even though there's no need, to the Upper House, so that they can discuss the AMvBs. I do that by discussing the transparency calendar with the Upper House. That kind of letter goes to the First Chamber, too. I also wrote a shrinking regional letter. I've already been invited to talk to the First Chamber about this. That is what I am talking about before I have even been invited by the House of Representatives to discuss it. I also have conversations with the First Chamber about letters. They really don't just have to be about legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u117	I think it is positive that the Minister immediately says that any AMvBs will be placed in both the Second and the First Chambers. I therefore assume that the judgement of the two Chambers will be taken seriously. The Minister said, including in the media, that all AMvBs find their legal basis in existing legislation. However, if I have seen it correctly, there is at least one law between the Quality Complaints and Disputes Act, which is still in the Upper Chamber. That Chamber just made a pretty critical contribution to that bill. By the way, the PvdA did not provide any input during the discussion of that bill, so we do not know exactly what it thinks; probably the PvdA wants to keep the tension in. But I'm right that that one law is still in the Upper House, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u119	I ask the Minister to be reluctant to accommodate all kinds of subjects in AMvBs. This can only be done in very special situations. On one point, I specifically ask for legislation: the position of insured persons vis-à-vis insurers. We would like to incorporate this into legislation. It may take a little longer, but that way we have secured things in a good way, as it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u120	I have indeed proposed that this be dealt with in an AMvB because a motion from the Christian Union called for it to be dealt with in an AMvB. As a result of this motion, I felt I had to propose that it should be dealt with via an AMvB. I wouldn't mind putting that in a law, but it'll take longer. That's what law says. Again, I can make it a law. I did it this way because it is in line with the motion passed in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u121	We know the position of the First Chamber when it comes to legislation. The First Chamber cannot amend. In addition to what has already been said in the Lower House, a motion has been tabled in the Upper Chamber, which I believe has even received unanimous support. A law can also, of course, be dealt with quickly, even in the two chambers, especially if we consider that law to be important with each other. Our keen desire towards the Minister is to regulate it legally, because in that case we have done it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u122	I also left that motion to the House and gave it a positive opinion. It was adopted unanimously, so there was little debate on what had to be arranged there. If the Chamber attaches itself to regulating this by law, it will, of course, take longer, because it will have to go through the Council of State and the whole process. However, I have no objection to it. Another aspect is that we regulate matters that have been submitted to the House of Representatives by amendment: transparency and procurement; innovation; small; philosophical; and that we regulate the influence of insurers. There is also a real catch-up with regard to transparency. It is new that, as a result, the agreement has been made that we are making a strong catch-up with regard to the number of quality indicators, the number of directives and the number of patient versions of those directives. It has also been agreed that insurers will actually buy from the Quality Institute on the basis of the registered directive, so that they do not make separate agreements on their own standards. Once something is registered with the Quality Institute, they are also the standards that are widely shared, which gives us a common understanding of quality. That seems to me to be a significant step forward. The second important part of this plan concerns the improvement of quality. Quality improvement means in particular that what is delivered is made clear and transparent. We can take great steps in this area, particularly in the ggz. I must say right away that there are ggz institutions that are very far-reaching in defining quality and are very transparent in that. It's my job to get everyone to make that move. There are institutions, which are already ROMs, as they are called in jargon, for example; we must do so throughout the sector. We need to see what's going on there and see what's being paid for. That is an important step. A second important step is that you are actually going to get much more coherence in the first-line ggz, because the first-line ggz is going to work much more in chains. You can already see that happening and the experiences are also very good. Of course, we already have a POH-GGZ at the GP. There's a lot of first-line ggz that doesn't work together, but you can see that, in addition to diabetes and COPD chains, there are also chains that can be formed in mental health care, which really are a quality beat, because you exchange much more information about your patient in a good way and work much more together. Especially in the ggz, the good institutions, which are actually suffering from the fact that something is going wrong in this sector, are very much in the interest of what they have been doing for a long time, to have an overall impact in that sector. The third point is balance. Evaluation of the Health Insurance Act shows that the position of hospitals vis-à-vis health insurers is actually quite strong, if not too strong. We must be careful that mergers do not create such large suppliers that the number of choices is falling too much and that the position of such a provider is so great that an insurer can never avoid it again, which means that you get lower quality for too much money. At the same time, we see that the individual healthcare provider, who has to negotiate with the insurer, is not entitled to that at all, because he gets a standard contract, which he can sign or not. In both areas, we are taking action, on the one hand through stronger monitoring and, on the other hand, through new interview models. Finally, it is about purchasing. That's what our system is based on. The health insurance provider must play his role and buy well on price and quality. For this we have not presented our own risk as a new possibility, because we know that our own risk can already be reduced. It's happening. There are a number of prevention programmes and medical programs, excluding one's own risks if you participate in them. We want to adapt the risk settlement in such a way that the health insurance company makes maximum efforts to make much more of that quality. He's making good efforts with regard to the price. We can also see this in the estimates and in the way in which it is macro-financial. However, we want health insurers to apply much more effectively the undisputed quality indicators and guidelines laid down at the Quality Institute, and to which health insurers also address themselves, and to use their own risk as an incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u123	Getting a reduction in your own risk when choosing the doctor that the health insurance provider has selected is a limitation of the free choice of doctors. Is it not in fact the case that in this letter the Minister acknowledges that there is a problem with the level of one's own risk and that this leads to payment problems on the one hand and to the avoidance of care on the other? I wouldn't mind if the Minister had that insight by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u124	In the case of contracted care, there are always consequences if you go to uncontracted offer. That's true now. If I have a natural policy now and I'm going outside of that natural policy, there's all these lawsuits on................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then you may have to pay 20%, 30% or 35% of the costs yourself. It is an illusion that we now have a completely free choice of doctors and that my proposals undermine that. That really is an image that is not in line with reality. Take chains in which diabetes and COPD care is provided. In that chain, doctors work together. If you choose that chain, then you choose the doctors who work together in that chain. If you go outside that chain, then you fall outside what is offered in it and then you do not have a completely free choice of doctors. If you are sent to a hospital by your GP, you often come to a group of doctors and you are allocated to the person who has room there. The picture that there would now be a completely free choice of doctors and that this plan or the previous plan would have no free choice of doctors at all is far too black and white. That's not how reality works.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u125	That wasn't my question. Perhaps the Minister could comment on that. Then I can ask my second question. My question was: does the Minister recognise that there is a problem with its own risk, namely that people cannot pay it because they need payment arrangements and that it leads to care avoidance?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u126	We've had that discussion here before. It always comes down to the same thing: Mrs Leijten says that it is already a big problem, and I would point out that we are doing research and that I will have an opinion on it after I come out. In any case, the following applies. If the system is going to work that insurers can lower their own risk, then those who choose to do so do not have to spend that lesser. That's obvious. It is clear that people who are in a position where they are already finding it difficult to pay their premium could choose to do so. You've got it now. You have differences in policies. People can opt for expensive policies or cheap policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u127	Here the Minister says something important: people can choose cheap policies or expensive policies, people can choose a higher or lower own risk. But how big is that choice if you can't afford it? Isn't it actually the new bomb under this care plan that still determines the thickness of your wallet how much free choice you have? That free choice is already limited, but it becomes even more limited as you are less able to pay your own risk. Is this not an undermining of solidarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u128	I think this plan is a strengthening of solidarity. By the way, in international research into solidarity, the Netherlands really comes out very well, I say to Mrs Leijten. We came out so well, it scared the hell out of me myself. Furthermore, we also have the care allowance in the system. People who need care get that supplement. If you compare in time what people with a minimum income now have to pay and what they had to pay ten years ago, then you see that this comparison is also very good and that our system has actually become more solidarity over the years. This is largely due to the care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u129	When I listen to the Minister in this way, I hear her say that we have a golden egg with the reduction of our own risk by the health insurance companies. It is striking, however, that the response of the health insurance companies to the Minister is as follows: hoho, we are not going to manage that so quickly, because we doubt whether this egg will eventually be hatched. How does the Minister judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u130	I think different insurers are going to judge this differently. Health insurance companies with refund policies get less enthusiastic when I adjust the risk balance as I announced, than health insurance companies that are very keen on buying and think they are good at it and can get better at it. So I don't expect all insurers to feel the same way about this. Besides, this is complex. The first amendment of Article 13 was really simpler. That's what I started. This is a more complex route. Anyway, if one route is not possible, I think we should not let complexity hinder us. We have enough research from sufficient research institutes that say that we can do something in this area and this offers the perspective and opportunities. That's why I'm following this route.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u131	It is striking that the investigations received by the Court say precisely that adjusting the risk settlement does not result in a better purchase of care and that it is likely to have effects on risk selection. Back to the fact that health insurance companies say this isn't gonna fly. Why do they say that? I thought it might be a good idea to calculate how much the calculation premium should be increased if you reduce your own risk by €100. I'm sure the Minister did the same. Suppose a health insurance company wants to reduce its own risk by €100 for one person, how much extra premium should it charge?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u132	I'm sorry, but the interruptions are so long that there are three questions in them. I'll walk them all by. Mrs Bruins Slot draws a conclusion from the letter of 25 November; thank you for the date, because that gives us the speed to find it. However, that letter does not say that what we are doing now does not help with purchasing or with better purchasing. Actually, this is what he's saying. If you link an arbitrary amount of money, whether that is €100 or €1,000, to a chronically ill person, that is not going to help with purchasing if you don't do that distinctively. I'm not going to do that. I really intend to look into other investigations. For example, there are studies that show that you need to look at historical use rather than at risk equivalence by drug use. Has physiotherapy been used in accordance with the Borst list? If that is the case, then you have a predictive value for how much care someone is going to use. For example, you can also see what happens if someone has used nursing and care a year earlier. That says a lot about how much care you need. If you add a random amount to it, it doesn't make much difference. However, that is not the way in which we want to strengthen the risk balance. That's the first thing. Secondly, Mrs Bruins Slot said that health insurance companies say it's not going to fly. Well, I didn't hear. That is a very digital translation of "it is complex and we will have to look at it further." I've also spoken to individual health insurers. There you see of course a mixed image along the lines I just sketched. There are health insurance companies that say that they can actually do the purchasing very well. They are much more positive than the refund insurers, and I understand that myself. Third. If you lower your own risk by €100, how much should the premium increase? It is not intended to increase the nominal premium if you lower your own risk. That's when you have communicating vessels. It does end up with different groups. Because if you bring down the nominal premium, it benefits young and healthy. And if you lower your own risk, it will benefit those who think you can make up for it, namely the chronically ill and using people's care. So there's a big difference here. This plan focuses on efficiency improvement. The money must not come from the reduction in own risk and from the increase in the nominal premium, because fortunately there is still price competition. No, it has to come from the efficiency of the care purchase, so by really hitting certain parts of the care, which makes you say: I can actually offer that patient something.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u133	If you just take it macro, a reduction in your own risk by €100 means that you have to increase the nominal calculation premium by €45. That is actually my question about the financial underpinning of this plan. If you want to have the right financial effects, you have to bridge a gap first, because you don't get certain revenues anymore. Has the Minister correctly calculated whether this plan will ultimately produce that financial impact? After all, there is still a billion dollars left here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u134	If you look at the prevention programmes in which they do apply, the proceeds of participating in them are apparently sufficient to exclude that from one's own risk. Apparently there is a financial gain there, because if you move, eat healthy food and participate in those programs, you need to take fewer pills. Then you do have a case where you're better off. Now I'm gonna go into the financial underpinnings. The Central Planning Bureau calculates the premium every year. This can be seen in the contribution estimates of the Central Planning Office. Some parts of this proposal are still before the Chamber at the end of this year, but the parts for which it is addressed are sufficient for the premium. It'll be the Central Planning Agency's window. In addition, it includes the acceleration of strict package management. Where we do not have enough success, we will therefore have to take other measures. I think this route is by far preferable, because if I don't follow this route, we're gonna have our own risk increase or package reduction, and I'd rather not. I prefer this route and that is why I want to do everything I can to get this route here, but I have included strict package management in the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u135	Isn't this care plan really a major failure for the Minister? First, the Minister had a law amending Article 13. That proposal was rejected in the First Chamber. Then the Minister announced with a lot of bombaby a General Measure of Management, in which she would arrange all of this. In the end, there is a care plan, which the health insurance companies say we are not going to do, and we cannot do that. The minister just disproved that. In the words of the Minister it is: we can already do that, so that does not add anything. What exactly does the Minister have with this care plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u136	Mrs. Klever says three things. First of all, isn't it a bummer that that law didn't make it? I made that law with the PVV in the first place. Secondly, it talks about withdrawing the proposal for an AMvB. I never made that proposal. That was never done by us, but by the group chairmen in the House of Representatives. Thirdly, Mrs Klever asks whether it is okay for insurers to say that they are not going to do it. I haven't heard insurance companies say, "We're not gonna do that." These arguments cannot therefore be fully substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u137	I have actually seen the Minister on television every night over the last few days. In each talk programme, the Minister spoke tough language about what she would not do. But the cut she's going to make is just butter soft. I don't see it. The health insurance companies aren't gonna do it. What the Minister can do, however, is to tackle fraud in order to reduce the cost of care and keep quality high, she does not. I find that really disappointing. That is why I think this care plan is a major failure for the Minister. After all, she's empty-handed. She's got nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u138	I find all these big conclusions of the PVV very premature, especially when you see what this route has actually achieved so far. So far, this route has generated billions compared to what we had estimated to spend. So far, cooperation between the sector and the public authorities has ensured that we have been underestimated for the first time in years. In other words, so far this route has given a great deal of financial advantage. When we look at the number of cases of avoidable mortality and the chance of life increased by concentration, we also see that quality increases. So this route has already proved itself. We must ensure that we keep the pace and urgency of this route. That's what this plan is for. I am going to work it out in the main agreements with all the parties so that we can finally put this result together. I think that's the best thing for the patient, and also for the contributor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u139	I hear the Minister say that she thinks it is important to achieve savings through quality and positive incentives. In doing so, it hopes that it will not have to take negative measures. I also hope that this is the way and that this way you can control the costs. Can the Minister say more specifically what this package of measures should contribute to the intended savings? That is not yet mentioned. The Minister indicated that the measures had to make an important contribution, that she had put her hopes into it and that she had worked it out well. I would therefore like to hear more clearly what the contribution is to the proposed savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u140	The savings are calculated by financial institutions that always calculate for us what it's worth if you do something. Moreover, I have doubts about this, because we always get very nice amounts of package undressing or things that go out of the package, but negative substitution often doesn't deliver it. In the main agreements, a lot of people said about this: we have to see it first and it is butter soft. That's what I've been hearing for years, but in the meantime, it's working like a tierelier. With these measures I want to keep the urgency and pace in the main agreements. What's hard in those chords that gets you money? That is in particular the volume. That was still 10% at the beginning of this century. For this year it is 1% for medical-specialist care and 1.5% for general practitioner care. On the volume you can especially save costs. I agreed that I do not want to make that volume savings through waiting lists, because that only makes people sicker because they will be helped later. I want there to be no waiting lists and we'll keep the volumes in check anyway. Before that, there was a package of measures. Article 13 was part of that. That didn't work. In this way, we want to move forward with the main agreements and what was agreed in them, in order to see if we can achieve them. That is why we need the parties. In principle, they have generally reacted positively. We'll work it out with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u141	The main agreements consist of a number of agreements and measures. These should lead to limited volume growth. In what way does the care plan presented by the Minister now contribute to the intended savings? So how decisive is this part of the overall agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u142	It is very important because it intervenes on four points. It intervenes on the practical variation, the quality. In the main agreements, we agreed that we should make a move in this direction which not only produces quality but also saves money. We are making a huge blow to transparency. We're gonna put extra money in there to bring that gear. Transparency is incredibly important. The main agreements also agreed to achieve the results with the eyes of all of us. There is also a balance in the sector and, finally, there is procurement. The selective purchasing, on price and quality, is still the backbone. Article 13 had reduced that, but the package had grown. I told you, that law had gotten much bigger. All parts of the law rely on the main agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u143	This is your second interruption, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u144	The Minister attaches great importance to the purchase. In this package of measures, this is about dealing with risk and reducing one's own risk. Can the Minister justify how these measures contribute to the overall savings? And what numbers, what budgets are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u145	When we started working on the main agreements, we were faced with very high growth. Everyone was puzzled to get that growth out. You can do this, for example, by having part of the package paid out of your own pocket and no longer collectively insured. You'll bring down your expenses by cutting off a piece there. We have chosen to redirect growth towards lower growth, and this plan is crucial for that. It is also crucial for two other reasons. You should not only vary with risk settlement and risk, as it is also crucial that you do not get too big colossals in the second-line sector. The health insurance companies have far too little influence on those colossals to make them perform better at a sharper price. On the other hand, we see that in the first line, the distribution of power is exactly the other way around. The general practitioner and the physiotherapist actually have far too little power over the large health insurance companies. If we restore that balance on both sides, I think that will ultimately benefit quality and efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u146	I hear beautiful words and thoughts. I also agree with the Minister's wish that quality leads to cost savings. However, I do not have a clear basis for the plans. In the end, however, it is crucial to assess whether it is an effective set of measures. I really don't hear that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u147	I agree with Mrs Ellemeet that you can only see how effective the plans are when they are worked out. If you do very little at risk, you have less effect than you would like. We've moved 1.5 billion this year. We are now shifting 15 billion by means of the risk settlement, and we have now added 1.5 billion. That is what we are doing and that is really only going to be more. The development of this plan is therefore very important. We will have to do that with the sector itself. I agree with Mrs Ellemeet that it is difficult and that it would be much clearer if I removed 1 billion from the package. I get a nice stamp from the CPB and everyone is happy again. I wonder, however, whether it will be that much, because the year after or the year after you get it back with a boomerang through negative substitution. I don't choose the easy way! I want to improve the system so we can get better results. These results must also be reflected in quality and efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u148	The Minister indicated that the main agreements were the engine for keeping the system running. But what is the relationship with the main agreement with the ggz? I ask that because the Minister has said that she considers that to be cancelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u149	The main line agreements support the system. What we do in the main agreements is therefore supportive of the system with purchasing by a health insurance company. Of course it is a kink in the cable that the main agreement with the ggz has been terminated. I myself find that very regrettable, but it does not mean that we do not have to achieve the improvements in the ggz that we find so badly needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u150	How does the Minister see that and what is the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u151	I have now concentrated on repairing the damage to the main agreement caused by the failure of the law. In fact, I saw the objectives of better quality and affordability at stake. So far, I have concentrated mainly on this. After this we will see how we can best work out this agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u152	The Minister terminated the administrative agreement with mental health care because the parties to that agreement were critical of the abolition of Article 13. After the Minister himself had denounced that agreement, a letter came from GGZ Nederland, which states: we missed the Minister's substantive involvement in the implementation of the administrative agreement and because there was actually no direction from the minister, there was such a imbalance that the health insurance company was given too much power. Now the Minister has announced many measures for the ggz sector. Apparently, this is due to the lifting of the administrative agreement. But to what extent does she actually repair the lack of direction on her part?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u153	I do not want to give an assessment of everyone's contribution to administrative consultation through a parliamentary debate. I'm not gonna do that. It is very important that we look closely at the ggz and see what is needed there. You don't have to look very long for that, because you see good things happening there. What is going on there is that the leftovers must follow the forerunners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u154	That sounds like such an open door to me. Everywhere in the care, isn't it true that those who stay behind have to step up, or whatever you want to say? Maybe they shouldn't care anymore. But why does the Minister specifically cancel the administrative agreement with the ggz? Why do 3 of the 21 measures it is taking specifically focus on this sector, while the sector itself indicates that the Minister has missed out on the substance of the matter? Because she did not direct, health insurers were able to exercise their full power. Is she going to listen to that, or does she say "neuh"?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u155	If you have read the plan correctly, Mrs Leijten, you will see that, on the one hand, measures are being taken to improve quality in mental health and other sectors, and, on the other hand, measures are being taken aimed at insurers, so that patients and insured persons can have a greater influence on insurers' procurement policies, on the policies that are being pursued by insurers at all and on the supervision that is being carried out within insurers. There are measures to make insurers transparent about how they buy and about the content of the policy. The package therefore intervenes on all partners, not just all of them, in order to achieve a better result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u156	In the past, the Minister has always stressed in the Chamber the great importance of care agreements, including agreements with the ggz, precisely in order to manage costs with each other and to ensure that quality increases. That is why I am surprised at the fact that things are so easy now, so it seems at least from this side what the Minister is doing with the agreement with the Ggz. I would like to hear a little more about this than what she has just said to Mr Dijkstra. What does the Minister intend to do to ensure that good agreements can be made as soon as possible, so that we can turn our shoulders against each other and make us strong together for good care in the Netherlands, of high quality and if possible at lower costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u157	I'm also sorry it turned out this way. I attach great importance to achieving results with partners in the field. Since I am a minister, I am actually doing nothing but trying to achieve real results through practice rather than results that look beautiful but with which we end up with nothing. The same goes for the ggz. In the main agreement, there were some things that were very tough, for example the quality agenda but also, very important, the transparency agenda. We need to look closely at how, when we start the conversation again, we can make agreements where everyone delivers whatever he puts on the table. After all, it is at the heart of these agreements that you make agreements with each other in a number of areas and that these agreements are actually being complied with. I therefore believe that cooperation in mental health should continue in one way or another. We need to look at how best we can do this. In the old way, a number of things were already stalling. Subsequently, an important measure of two of the three partners was terminated by the third partner. Then you need to see what form you're going to go on in.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u158	Last week an egg was hatched in almost a day. How long is it going to take to reach a new agreement with the ggz? I think it is incredibly important that such an agreement should be reached as soon as possible. Then we can close the queues again and try together to achieve high quality and control the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u159	I'm sorry, but it's really an illusion to think that this egg was hatched in one night. From the first day of the Christmastreces there has been quite hard and continuous work to put it together. I'm in a hurry to realize my plans. If I can find partners who want to work with me on a good future for the patients in the ggz, it is obvious that we are looking for partners and working with them. We are now going to look at how we should proceed with this. The plans are just there. They came a little earlier than I actually anticipated, I have to be honest. The next step is to look at how we are going to achieve this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u160	I suggest that you continue with your speech, because we have been dealing with interruptions for almost an hour now. Before you continue, Mrs Bruins Slot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u161	The Minister's last comment was: I go within mental health care to look for parties that share my ideas. Isn't she actually saying that she wants mental health care to sign on the cross of this letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u162	The mental health system consists of a lot of parties with a lot of interests and above all a lot of opinions, I know. That's not gonna happen anyway. I am concerned about the objectives. I want higher quality, more efficiency and more transparency. We must achieve these objectives together. That is why we have now put in place a programme which offers all kinds of points of departure. There's a lot of space left in the work. It is important to see whether or not you can find common ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u163	At the time, the minister surprised mental health care in a debate by saying that she assumed that the administrative agreement on the ggz had been terminated. The first thing I saw appearing was several letters to the Minister calling: let us sit down together, because we have to get out of here and have a shared mission. I noticed that at the time, but I have the feeling that the Minister is going back to one-way traffic. I think it is very important to hear from the Minister whether she is really looking for support for these measures, including mental health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u164	If you make a coherent package with each other, you have to work it out with each other. Such a coherent package always contains ideas from different parties. If there are less positive experiences, you have to include them in the further development. I am just not ready to say exactly how and with whom we are going to work that out. It's too soon for that. These plans are still warm. They came out a week earlier than I thought. It's just a little premature to expect now that I can give an outline of the progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u165	I'll come back to that cancelled agreement with the ggz. I noticed that the ggz sector has behaved no different to the Upper House than compared to the Lower House. It has been said: do not do this! Why is this now a reason for the Minister to consider the agreement to be cancelled, whereas this was not the case at the stage of the proceedings in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u166	As long as I was sitting around the table with the parties, I was not told that they were moving away from a part of the package. You make the package with each other. If you make a deal with each other and say, "That's how we're gonna do it," you expect everyone to commit to that whole package. One party always attaches more importance to one part of the agreement while the other party attaches more importance to the other, but we call on each other to bring the whole agreement to a successful conclusion. That didn't go well. I think you should continue to deal with that business and don't get stuck in it too much. Then you have to go back and see how you can achieve what you want to achieve with each other, and in what form you can do that. As long as there's a little bit of pace in it! I am not yet ready to say exactly how we are going to proceed with this, but I believe that further work is being done with the parties involved. Otherwise, you won't get a policy implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u167	I understand what the Minister is saying. I can also imagine that the ggz says to the minister: we are not married, because we have agreements, so why the lobby not to let a part go on? That actually happened a long time ago, not just recently. I understand the surprise that the agreement is suddenly considered to be cancelled. The course of action from the ggz has been in this way for some time now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u168	Well, I guess I missed that. This has never been changed at the administrative consultation table, and the agreements have been made there. If any part of those agreements cannot be implemented, I expect this to be said at that table. It may be that Mr Van der Staaij has received other messages in the meantime, but of course I have less view of that. I got that message from a letter to the First Chamber. I regret that, but it seems to me that we should put that behind us. We have to move on. We can look at the past all the time, but in the end we must move forward in the interests of the patient and the contributor, for whom we all do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u169	On the last sentence I would like to continue. In the end, it's about the patient. I notice that the messages and letters from the ggz are all about the position of the psychiatrist and the caregiver. They're important people, too. At the same time, we see all kinds of newspaper reports about very confused people with whom everything is going on. I would like to see the minister's and the ggz's quality agenda being about the patient again, how to help people sooner and better and how to put the patient back at the centre. That agenda should not concern the position of the physician in this system. How's the Minister looking at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u170	I agree. I think that's the most important thing. I have already promised to return to confused persons together with the Minister for Security and Justice, whom I have spoken to today. There will be several reasons for this, but ultimately it concerns the patient. That's what we're all doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u171	This is an important commitment, just as it is important to recognise that aid needs to be improved. It is a good thing that the Minister and the Minister of Security and Justice return to it. Do we see this in the quality agenda that the Minister will draw up with the ggz?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u172	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u173	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u174	I have already discussed a number of things in the introduction. A number of laws are needed. They are in areas other than the law that has been rejected. That's how I'm gonna have to adjust the Wmg for the MBI. Those who have said that it is a rather complicated road, which we will be working on for a while, are right. We are indeed working on this for a while, but thanks to the fact that we have been working on it for a while, I see possibilities for amending that law. At the end of the year, I'll bring it to the Chamber. The question has been asked to what extent this adjustment is possible and sustainable. In the design of the adjustment, that question is answered. This will be done through the Council of State, which will make another assessment. In any case, we have already received several opinions on this matter. Do I admit to asking the Council of State for advice? A number of matters always go to the Council of State, which gives an opinion on them. A number of things in these plans, such as risk settlement and adaptation, do not go to the Council of State, or because they are about very different things, or because they are going to NZa. If that's the case, we'll definitely talk about it. The field parties are not involved in the development of this care plan. I have experienced understanding and support for the chosen line. I have also often had the reaction that this offers great opportunities and that one looks forward to their joint development. I look forward to that, too. Can I send the country's attorney's advice on the MBI? We have talked on several occasions about other advice from the state attorney. I indicated at the time that it is not customary to send advice from the national attorney. I'm sure the whole piece of legislation will come to the Chamber. It will, of course, deal in detail with what we are doing and how we are doing it. The Council of State will also advise on this. It has been asked why vertical integration is not part of the action plan. Shouldn't it be? The law was built for years. Vertical integration began and Article 13 was added later. One fortified the other. Due to the ban on vertical integration, it was more important to adapt Article 13 so that quality could be achieved. If you do not adapt Article 13, you may ask yourself whether you can make a qualitative impact by means of vertical integration, which in practice took place on the first line of our healthcare offer. I think that's more balanced. Both do, I don't think it's an option. However, I think it is important to do one of two. I have also said that I do not see any reason to propose vertical integration as a legislative proposal for the time being. It has been asked whether the measures are not the same material as in the legislative proposal and, if so, why I did not propose them earlier. My answer to that is no. The bill concerned the adaptation of Article 13. Then there was a great deal of regulation which must now be dealt with in all kinds of different points, with all the complexity involved. This is a much more complex road, but also a completely different one. Other instruments are really being used, and that means that things have to be regulated by other means. Will large and small identity-related institutions and providers be taken into account in raising quality standards? How are the large scale and fragmentation of the healthcare sector prevented? Is the amendment tabled on this subject taken into account? I have already indicated that I will regulate that amendment by including it in the NZa's policy rules. What are the MBI's plans for identity-related institutions and small institutions? The proposal will not be to use uncontracted suppliers for the entire overrun. That's been investigated before. The part that hasn't been contracted would otherwise get a far too big attack that would wipe out such an institution. The proposal that I will make will be much more nuanced and will lead to care being spared when contracts are signed. So it is much milder than ever shown in an execution key. That is why this is really going to be a different proposal. Where does the assumption that more purchasing power leads to quality improvement come from? I have yet to meet the first health insurance provider who says "give me worse quality for a higher price." A health insurance company is of course motivated to say: I want a sharper price and for that price you need to do more, for example to provide more service or to reduce the number of recovery operations. Without a contract, there are no agreements at all about volume or price. In particular, the contracting took off after the macronacalculation was abolished and insurers were actually much more stimulated to buy in sharply. It has been said that a choice of law would have made sense. Am I perhaps afraid of too critical a First or Second Chamber? No. I think that I can deal with the replacement of Article 13 in a different way, which is not regulated by legislative proposals. Risk settlement is not regulated by a legislative proposal. I really will have to do that by the appropriate means. You just get that neatly in June, as we always do when we talk about the risk settlement. Other matters that we do arrange through an AMvB or a law, we do so through the First and Second Chambers, whether or not via a veil or a law. I come to the bureaucracy. Are the proposals you are making not bureaucratic? We will implement them with as little administrative burden as possible, but some of these proposals are being implemented by a number of institutions that already apply them. There you see that it does not have to lead to administrative burdens at all, as long as you do it right. Of course, our objective is to keep these burdens as low as possible, but we do need transparency. There really needs to be an understanding of what is now being delivered and for whom and what needs to be paid. Then I'll join the Disputes Commission and the NZa hotline. Are they also used for risk-driven monitoring? Yes, the NZa will actually use that information for risk-driven monitoring. Is there an increase in own risk foreseen? It's not foreseen. Of course, just like every year, the own risk is indexed, but there will be no separate increase in the own risk. The possibility of reducing the mandatory own risk already exists. I didn't present that as something new. The letter also states that it can be done already, even with a footnote where it is regulated by the Health Insurance Act. I never raised the suggestion that it was new and that it couldn't be. I can see that it is happening on far too modest a scale. I have indicated how I intend to promote this and how I intend to do it. I'm coming to the risk settlement. How's it going for the summer 2015? What makes it possible now? There is currently a great deal to be done for chronically ill people: about 15 billion, including this year's step of 1.5 billion. So I have already taken a big step this year to provide much more financial support for chronically ill people in the system. That does not alter the fact that much research is needed into the possibilities that I am announcing here. That investigation is heavily deployed. I think that at the appropriate time, namely before the summer, I can come to the Chamber with proposals. To what extent do chronically ill and elderly people get their own risk reimbursed through the municipality? Some chronically ill and low-income elderly people can collectively insure themselves through the municipality, if that municipality offers it. Many municipalities have been offering basic collective insurance and supplementary insurance for low-income citizens for many years. Most municipalities have developed such schemes using the additional budget to better match the additional costs for people with chronic illness or disability. In addition to additional modules aiming at a reduction and/or additional costs, municipalities have included financial compensation in the collective insurance scheme. Both direct costs and own risk can be included in the collectivity. We have already mentioned collectivities and removal of the mandatory own risk. That is why we already knew that it could be done, because we saw that happening to frontier workers and also to municipalities. Is refund policies supposed to disappear? No, that's not my intention. It is my intention, however, that if insured persons opt for a natural policy, you can actually encourage those insured by a lower risk of their own to opt for that kind of policy and for what is specifically offered. Finally, a response from the Minister to the reduction of his own risk has been requested. How is this paid for? It is the whole scheme, even in the event of a change and adjustment of the risk balance, that it is pushed out of the system by efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u175	Were you finished with your speech and the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u176	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u177	I asked if the refund policy was supposed to disappear. The reason I asked for this is that the measures include an improvement in the risk balance for chronically ill people. Insurance companies get more money if they accept chronically ill. However, this applies only to insurance companies offering natural policies. Doesn't that mean that insurance companies that have refund policies are out of competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u178	No, the risk settlement applies to every insurer. You can see that there is now a predictable loss for people with a chronic illness, of a certain age or certain categories of individual insured persons. We want to improve this by means of risk settlement adjustments. However, the risk settlement applies to each insurer and not on the basis of the policy offered, but on the basis of the insurance company's file.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u179	Well, I guess I misunderstood. All insurers with all policies, including refund policies, will be treated at risk and will be overcompensation for the chronically ill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u180	No. The first thing you said is that all insurers are given the risk settlement for all insured persons on the basis of objective criteria. Otherwise it should not be, because it would be acute state aid. I'm not talking about overcompensation. For the time being, we are still dealing with the fact that predictable losses are being suffered. That's where we want to pull the leg in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u181	Let me just say for the record that the Minister is going to increase for the chronically ill and that is also true for all restitution policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u182	This applies equally to all policies and to all insurers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u183	The Minister talks in her letter about policies for people who comply with the contracted healthcare providers. This can reduce the risk. How's that gonna make money later? If you currently have a natural policy and you only go to contracted providers, can you also qualify for a lower own risk? Or is it going to apply only to special policies, which must be offered separately?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u184	I could imagine that. What you don't take at your own risk, you're gonna have to pick up at the care buy-in. Those you attract at a lower risk are people who expect them to carry out their own risk. They are generally people with chronic illness or with high care consumption. They find it attractive to be relieved of part of their own risk. In the current system competition on premium is taking place. So you attract a very different population, namely young and healthy people. They look particularly at the premium, because they think they do not need any care at all. I hope so for them, too, but it's a completely different target group that you focus on. If you get more money for a diabetic patient and you can set up the diabetes chain in such a way that you can provide very good care so that you spend less money on the care purchase and yet deliver better quality, then you can offer a policy in which you lose some of your own risk. But you have to be able to get that back through your care purchase.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u185	Actually, I'm talking about something else. There must be an incentive for people to go to the contracted suppliers alone. There is already a large group with a natural policy that only goes to contracted suppliers. What's in it for you? They are not now getting a discount on their own risk. Is this supposed to apply to them in the future? That was my question. How does the Minister see that? Do you have to take out a separate policy for that later, which may be the case? Isn't that going to be some kind of budget policy? I still wonder how the Minister is going to get the insurers to do that. She always mentions the risk balance and says that it is going to yield money, but it has to be a huge amount of money to be able to lower its own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u186	In the end, it's about organizing mass on your purchases. If you can organize mass on the purchase for certain care, then you can actually make an efficiency hit that we are not making right now. The point is that you do it in such a smart way that you don't compete on price alone. That's what the whole system is based on. If you compete on price only, you get a race to the bottom. Then it doesn't matter what kind of offer is behind it. The system is based on the fact that we want to maximise competition on procurement. If you want to be able to offer this kind of policy, you will indeed have to buy well and have mass. I would just like to refer to those preventive programmes, where people now have the same thing. Those people do not have to pay their own risk because insurers think they are better off financially than those people who follow those programmes. For example, they live healthier, they move more and therefore need less medicine. Then an insurer saves money by providing better quality care. That must be the incentive of this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u187	Mrs Ellemeet, very briefly, because there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u188	That mass is already there for insurers, that is to say. Insurers already have to deal with large groups of chronically ill people in their insured population. So there is already an efficiency incentive for insurers, including these groups. The Minister states that the insurer must recover the discount on its own risk through better purchasing. But precisely because it is a cost incentive, a price incentive, the temptation is very great to recover it by purchasing tighter. This will certainly not be the quality but the price again leading. Does the Minister also see the risk that the price will again be very decisive if we use this instrument?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u189	No, because there's now competition for young and healthy people who don't take care. That's what you can see from the expressions of health insurance companies. If you put more money on a chronically ill patient, you're actually gonna pay more for that chronically ill patient and it's gonna be much more attractive for a health insurance provider to focus on people who do use care instead of people who don't take care. Then it is much more attractive to make that battle on the purchase and quality of the purchase. That is what chronically ill people think is important when they opt for a policy, unlike young, healthy people, who rather increase their own risk because they do not think they should use care. They don't look further at what's contracted. That's really different for a chronically ill person. That's where the center of gravity is completely different. This is the essence of our system.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u190	Then I find it very interesting that the Minister considers it necessary to introduce another price incentive with that reduction at his own risk. By doing so, you bind these groups to you if you had a well-functioning system in which you pay fairly and an insurer gets equal value for an insured person, whether he is chronically ill or not. Now an additional price incentive is being introduced, forcing insurers to recover it somewhere. Those costs of the reduction at their own risk are to be borne by them. They're gonna have to get them back somewhere. That's cost. It's about price. So then insurers will have an additional incentive to compensate for that price in their contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u191	No, because I'm not introducing a new price incentive. This one's been there since 2006. But it is not used because there is predictable loss to these chronically ill. That's what all the tests show. The point is that contracting must be attractive to all parties. As I have tried to explain in the plan: all parties must have an interest in it. For example, a health insurance company must have an interest in contracting. It should not be deterred, because it is now in a negative light and says: for my image it is better if I do not conduct these contract negotiations at all. We are also a long way from home when a supplier says: why should I actually contract; then I get to deal with all kinds of quality requirements and volume restrictions; I better turn on the volume machine without a contract, because then I will recover the money I get less. For the insured person it must be attractive to opt for a contracted care offer instead of a refund policy. Why else would you choose that? That must be price and quality. Those three parties should therefore be encouraged to opt for contracted care, to contract care or to be contracted. That is what the incentives are for. It does not work because, to a large extent, the risk settlement system is an obstacle to making use of this possibility, which has already been created and not for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u192	Mrs Leijten's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u193	The Minister talks all the time about incentives, quality, better cooperation. However, I am curious to see how the Minister states that the chronic patient is afraid to switch at all and that there are more and more health care providers who do not want to sign a contract with the health insurance companies, because they say: sign under the right. Those are the so-called TREG contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u194	On that last point, I would like to announce measures. There must be a conversation, so that it is no longer possible for a standard contract to be offered. The first two points are my concerns. A provider can say: forget about the contract, because I'll get back what I'm missing by doing extra surgery and turning on the volume boost. In that case, we have a major problem at macro level. After all, work must be done on the basis of medical necessity and not on the basis of money. This system is based precisely on contracting, unlike the English system, where the choice of doctors is completely free and the government arranges everything for you, but where you are queued for emergency services. This system is based on the principle of providing much better care for the same money.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u195	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u196	It is remarkable that the Minister mentions the waiting times, while we have just heard from the NZa that the waiting lists in the Netherlands are also increasing in the current system. I understand very well what the Minister means, and I also understand very well how she looks at the care sector. It's just money-driven. In her eyes, people would only want to earn. It should only be about a cost-effective model, about commercial interest in a chronic disease.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u197	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u198	Does the Minister realize she's miscalculating? Does she realize that for doctors and people in the first line it is about cooperation and not at all about catching each other flying? Are we aware that this is precisely why contracts with health insurers are no longer concluded? They say on the basis of physical control to general practitioners: you have been with dying patients too often. Isn't that why it's stuck?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u199	Of course, money always plays a role. Especially when you think about a system, you have to think about where the incentives lie to prevent certain behavior. You can see that when you're talking to general practitioners. For example, if I propose to do everything via a subscription rate, those general practitioners say that they do not want to do so. They say: if we do certain extra treatments or other things, we would like to see something in return. I don't think that's crazy at all. I'm not judging you. However, it is contrary to Mrs Leijten's outline of the way in which the healthcare sector is organised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u200	One of the 21 proposals concerns the differentiated macro-control instrument. There's an opinion from the county attorney underneath. This is one of the supporting proposals for the overall package that it will further develop with the care parties. The Minister says that it is not customary to send advice from the national attorney. However, the Prime Minister made a further commitment on this matter on the night of 18 to 19 December. It reads as follows: "In the end, in such a dialogue between the Chamber and the Cabinet and in the joint orientation, a variant will be found on which the national attorney, in the process of building up to decision-making, has been consulted. I could imagine that we would send this to the Chamber with the final proposals. In any case, let me make that promise." In fact, my question is whether this Minister wishes to honour the Prime Minister's commitment and send that advice to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u201	It is very annoying, because Mrs Bruins Slot quotes very often from letters and documents, and when I read them, it is a bit different. I can't judge that from here, because I don't have that piece in front of me. What I can promise, though, is that if we send that MBI proposal to the Chamber, I will make sure that it works properly legally. We will therefore also incorporate into the legislative proposal all the arguments and measures necessary to actually send it to the Chamber through the Council of State with a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u202	I always quote neatly, but the Minister sometimes gives a different explanation. There's a difference. So I'm quoting again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u203	No, Mrs. Bruins Slot...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u204	The Minister says that Mrs Bruins Slot does not properly quote...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u205	No, I'm not saying that. I said those quotes also have a front, middle and after piece. The quote is true, but in the end it's about something different than what I understand from hearing. That's the hard part about quoting. What I promise you is that the bill I'm sending to the Chamber is legally sound. It must be put together in such a way that the Council of State can also give a good legal opinion on it. It will also take into account all the opinions we have received.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u206	Mrs. Bruins Slot, really last.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u207	I quote the Prime Minister again, because otherwise it would have been half a commitment from the Prime Minister: 'If at some point the legislative proposal has been stalled, then that consultation where we took place in the letter on hits between the Chamber and the Cabinet, we will now be at that stage, and that joint search has led to conclusions on how or how to comply with the agreements with the healthcare parties'.' We've got that 21 now. "If, in the course of the further development of that route in the past, there had been advice from the national attorney, I think it would be reasonable in itself to give access to it at that time." Under the macro-management instrument is an opinion of the country's attorney. My request to the Minister is to study carefully what the Prime Minister has said. Perhaps she could come back to it in the second term and say that she would send the advice of the national attorney to the Chamber. And if it isn't, I'd love to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u208	This is not a new bill as it was in that debate for discussion. Your quote refers to a proposal for an amended Article 13. I am not proposing an amended Article 13. I come up with a whole new package of measures, including an adaptation of the WMG, which was not in the previous package, to establish the MBI. I will come up with a careful legislative proposal which also looks at what can and cannot be done legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u209	This brings us to the end of the government's first term. There is a need for a second deadline. Mrs Ellemeet has the floor as the first speaker. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds, including filing motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u210	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is unclear how the new "Quality" care plans will pay off financially both the purchasing power of citizens and public finances;]] [[considers that an increase in the care premium can have an effect on purchasing power and that these effects should be reflected before the Court can assess the plans;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the plans are passed on to the Central Planning Bureau on at least the purchasing power effects and budgetary implications,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new health care plans "Quality pays" replace the health care law which was rejected by the First Chamber in December;]] [[considers that these new plans should be treated as carefully as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to submit the plans to the Council of State in a coherent manner before voting on the plans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Leijten and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-118]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Leijten and Mr Klever. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u211	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the Advertising Code Commission made an important statement. She said the U.S. Department was deceiving with the care commercials. I'm asking the Minister to do it differently here. The contrast is not that between quality and patient interest. The problem is: who has the power in care? And is it about money or is it about content? The Minister is only talking about quality. That's the deception, because that doesn't tell her it's based on money. She said in a subtlety: it must be financially attractive for everyone. For the chronically ill, it is not attractive to switch. He's being repelled. He's terrified. The general practitioner who gets a physical check-up because he visited terminal patients too often also thinks to himself: what healthcare system did I end up in? The Minister, however, is going on and on. 22% of people have avoided care because of their own risk. That puts us in second place. We have had a debate on this before. If the Minister really wants something to be done about his own risk and to restore solidarity with people who are chronically ill and older, then she must ensure that those people no longer have to pay their own risk. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government wishes to improve the purchasing power of the elderly and chronically ill by means of a lower-risk policy;]] [[noting that this is now in the hands of health insurers and therefore there is no guarantee that this policy will actually be implemented;]] [[calls on the Government to eliminate the compulsory own risk for the elderly and chronically ill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u212	Mr. Chairman. The Minister has sent a collection box of measures to the House of Representatives. She laid her egg. However, the CDA believes that it has remained a surprise egg. It is still unclear what exactly will come out of the Minister's kit. There are now 21 puzzle pieces on the table that need to be put together. The financial impact of these plans remains unclear. That is why I support the motion by GroenLinks. I also have doubts about the Minister's pace. I ask her clearly: does she agree with the CDA that care is important here and that it should go above speed? There is also uncertainty about the effects of measures in their coherence. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the letter of Friday 6 February 2015, "Quality pays," contains 21 measures;]] [[Considering that the 21 measures in this letter target different actors in the care field, such as the supervisors, the minister, the health insurance companies, the insured persons and the healthcare providers;]] [[Whereas precisely the effects of the proposed measures should be seen in relation to each other in order to assess whether these 21 measures increase the quality of care and reduce costs;]] [[Calls on the Government to assess the impact of the measures as comprehensively as possible and to inform the Court before April 2015;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u213	I have one final comment to make. I hear the Minister talking all the time about mass procurement of chronically ill. Let us emphasise above all that this is complex care, which often benefits from customisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr. Chairman. As we have agreed today that we will deal with the Minister's proposals and her work agenda much more extensively at further moments, I have limited myself to the procedure in this debate. In this respect, the Minister has made two promises to me that will prevent me now from tabling motions. First of all, she has promised that any AMvBs are my wish: as little as possible will be placed in both the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. Since there are no legal agreements about it, assume that they can be stopped and that the judgements of both the Lower House and the Upper House will therefore be taken very seriously. I therefore assume that we will not get any fuss about it later and that it will not just be sent pro forma. I am referring to the commitments made by the Minister on this point. I also asked about the legal basis for the AMvBs. We will look critically at them when they are sent to the Chamber. The minister has said in the media that it is laws that have already been passed. However, there is one for which this does not apply, namely the Quality, Complaints and Disputes Care Act (Wkkgz). It's been in the Upper House since 2013. A further report has just been drawn up. In short, that is quite a controversial law there. This could mean that the AMvB that is being applied there to address suppliers with insufficient quality is a very crucial one that also affects the Article 13 debate quite closely. Anyway, that will have to be discussed in the First Chamber. The Minister has promised that the insured person's position vis-à-vis the insurer will be governed by law. I ask her to stick to the timetable she has for the AMvB as well. I know it might take a little longer. A law must go to the Council of State, but that also applies to AMvBs. With a law, it'll just be a little more extensive. I ask the Minister to apply the 'temporarily' adage to this subject too. We'll discuss the rest at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answer. It was mainly about the main lines. We spoke very well about the procedure. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment to involve Parliament generously, may I put it this way? In the preparation of all the measures to be taken. I would like to table a motion on one point to highlight the important points of view we have in the preparation of the measures. Especially when it comes to stricter quality rules and supervision, we say: 'Agree', that can certainly have its usefulness and value. However, please note that diversity and innovation are being respected. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas diversity and innovation are extremely important in the care landscape;]] [[calls on the Government to promote that measures to strengthen quality and control costs are consistent with this principle and to promote that the measures in the "Quality" letter are rewarding to preserve the space for small healthcare providers, identity-related care and new players,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Slob, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u216	Mr Rutte waived his second term. I call Mrs Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u217	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the previous speakers' appreciation of the Minister's commitment to chair the AMvBs and to take account of the opinion of the whole of the States-General. I too have indicated that, as far as I am concerned, this is about the main points. I must say that I also think it is important to show in the second term that you have heard what was said in the first period. I believe that the Minister has made a number of points more clear, but in the debates that we are still going to have on the measures we will have to exchange a great deal. I'd like to table a motion on the financial underpinning of the plans. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is a need to understand the consequences of the 21 measures contained in the letter "Quality pays,"]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Central Planning Office to carry out a qualitative and, where possible, quantitative analysis of the measures contained in the letter concerning:]] [[the functioning of the healthcare system as a whole;]] [[the budgetary implications;]] [[the expected effects on (the average level of) own risk and the average SWF premium;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the results of this analysis before 1 April next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Slob. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u218	Mr. Chairman. As I said in my first term, this proposal concerns the quality of care. Good care pays for patients, for people who need care and especially for chronically ill. The essence is that as a patient you have to be able to trust that good care is bought in and that you can see that in the policy. That requires a lot of parties. That's what the doctor's gonna ask you to open up. That requires the health care provider to reward it, so that the patient gets understandable information and knows what he's up to. It's not about much and more, but about good, better, fine. It also requires extra pressure on doctors to open up what they are doing and what the results are to get a step further with the patients. I use the word "pressure," but that's what I mean positively. My first question to the Minister is who is going to put this pressure and with what result. Because we should not have it from health insurers alone, as we have unfortunately noticed. The question is what role the Minister will play in this. My second question concerns the strengthening of the position of both insured persons through the IGZ hotline and the caregivers who receive a dispute settlement committee and will soon be able to buy together on quality. This is separate from solving the individual question. In what way will the supervisor use this information as a signal? Then he can keep risk-driven supervision as an extra stick behind the door, so that health insurance companies really go shopping on quality and dealing neatly and well with people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u219	The Minister can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u220	Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 118 Ms Ellemeet asked the government to pass on the plans to the Central Planning Bureau for at least purchasing power effect and budgetary implications. That's a partial pass-through that's also pretty premature. We are taking everything into account in the general picture of the CEP and the Cordelia. I would therefore seriously advise against such a separate calculation. Actually, I can make the motion in part no. 123 by Mrs Dijkstra c.s. This motion calls on the government to re-examine another section. Mrs Ellemeet's motion calls for a transfer of the purchasing power effects and Mrs Dijkstra's motion for an analysis of a number of other matters before 1 April. The Chamber has seen the package and all the data behind it. This whole package must be worked out by the parties to the main agreement. Of course, we never did that before 1 April. In fact, there are some legislative proposals in the Chamber that will be dealt with at the end of this year and will also make an important contribution. So you're really going to judge small parts separately, while other parts still come after that. I would like to consult with the CPB on the appropriate time and on what effect you need to actually do this. These two motions now call for all the consequences of the general outline plan to be achieved within a month and a half, while this is only just out and needs to be worked out. That's really impossible. I can agree with the Chamber that I would like to sit down with the CPB and ask what is possible at what time and how we could discuss it with each other. However, I will have to advise against both of these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u221	Which motions are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u222	I am talking about the motions on the items Nos. 118 and 123.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u223	The Minister says that 1 April is not feasible. It's fine to look at a date. But it's true that the CPB can look at that, isn't that what we do so often to the plans you have? They don't all have to be executed. The Minister says that some things do not become clear until the end of the year or early next year. But it's always about what you mean by it. The Minister has something in mind. The question is whether we can calculate whether it all comes out as she sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u224	There are a lot of choices behind this outline plan. Of course, it's about those choices. Which way are you going? The CPB always makes a premium estimate in spring. The gap between that estimate and what it's going to be only a few months later is really good. Then you see how important it is to have more precise information. The CPB can't have them at all. So I'm really glad it does that estimate, so you have a bit of an image. However, you can see how much information the CPB needs to actually calculate it really well and a little hard. I would like to talk to the CPB to ask what it can calculate for me at what point, how it can look at this and what time it needs for it. However, I think that a number of steps need to be taken in the discussions with the parties to the main agreement in order to be able to present it to the CPB in a somewhat sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u225	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u226	I would just like to ask the Minister when she thinks she can make it clear to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u227	I think that by the summer I have made quite a hit with the plan's elaboration. A lot of actions I have to do take place before the summer. A very important element of the plans is, for example, the risk settlement. You must have more information, including the CPB, to be able to say something meaningful. I'm going to sit down with the CPB around the summer to make sure that we have something from the CPB to discuss for the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u228	I see Mrs Leijten and Mrs Bruins Slot. They may put one question on the motion in question or say that they wish to hold or amend the motion. However, if three people have signed a motion, it is not the case that all three of them are allowed to ask a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u229	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u230	Mrs. Leijten, calm down, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u231	... so from now on we all have to table our own motion to debate this issue? That's bullshit, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u232	Mrs. Leijten, that's the deal. It's always been that way. I would like to ask who, on behalf of the authors of the motion, is responsible for item No. 118, of which Mrs Ellemeet is the first signatory, wishes to put a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u233	I really don't accept this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u234	Mrs Leijten, the author is always the one asking a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u235	Well, that's new.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u236	No, it's always been.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u237	I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u238	I regret, however, that the debate in this way...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u239	Let's just ask a question!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u240	Yeah, about the motion, and then one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u241	So next time, I'm gonna have to file a motion to ask a decent question while we're working together to prevent us from filing 100 motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u242	You may ask a question on behalf of your colleagues. Go ahead, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u243	I assume Mrs Bruins Slot can also ask her question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u244	No, that's my call. Mrs Leijten, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u245	I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to give us a separate pass on to the CPB of the main agreement, if it can be used for the budget, so that we do not get rid of it in the draft or in the general government policy. An opposition party must have a counter-budget charged by the CPB to be credible at all. The Minister is willing to talk to the CPB. Let us therefore agree that it is a separate transfer of the main agreement so that we can weigh it separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u246	It's gonna be in the Cord and all that anyway. I promised Mrs Dijkstra separately that I would sit with the CPB around the table and ask what it can do with some hardness. I shall, of course, send that separately to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u247	Mr President, I have a procedural point. You are in charge of the meeting and it is important that you accept it as a member, but I am surprised by your remark that only one petitioner may ask a question. I think it would be a good idea to take a look at that outside this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u248	That sounds good to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u249	In the motion in part No. 119 requests by Mrs Ellemeet and others to submit the plans to the Council of State in conjunction with the government. I have already responded to this in the debate; I do not recommend it. A lot of elements of these plans don't belong there either, but with the CPB. That is where I will have those elements taken into account in conjunction. In the motion in part No. 120 calls on Mrs Leijten to eliminate the compulsory own risk for the elderly and chronically ill. Its own risk has a function. We talk about this regularly in the Chamber. It would also have a major budgetary effect, and that means a strong increase in premiums. That is why I do not recommend the adoption of this motion. In the motion in part No. 121 calls on the Government to assess the impact of the measures as comprehensively as possible and to inform the Court of Justice before 1 April 2015. I will report these plans to the Chamber in progress and consistency. In other words, I will take this package forward, even though there are parts that are in a different rhythm. April really isn't possible. I have just indicated why I should first discuss the plans well with the parties to the main agreements. That is why I do not recommend the adoption of the motion. In the motion in part No. 122 the Government is invited to promote that the measures to strengthen quality and control costs are in line with this principle and to promote that the measures in the Quality Letter reward the preservation of the space for small healthcare providers, identity-related care and new players. I think this is a positive motion, of which I agree with the objectives. That is why I leave the motion to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I have provided the motions with an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u250	I was just talking about a package of surprises with 21 measures. Therefore, we still need to see where exactly we are going to come out. That is why I, along with Mrs Ellemeet, have tabled this explicit motion in part No. 121................................................................................................................................................................. The Minister thinks April is too early, but what is a reasonable deadline?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u251	You yourself attach a great deal to the support in the field. I do so too, and that is why I am going to work it out with the parties to the main agreements. I really want to see with them how we can come up with a good package. I am in a hurry, but you rightly stressed the importance of care, because I really want to do it carefully myself. I am not making a commitment on a date, but I have already promised to inform the Chamber in conjunction with it about progress. On what date exactly will that be, I really will depend on the discussion with the parties to the main agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u252	The motion was indeed intended as an opening to the Minister to amend the motion. I included an explicit date in the motion because the Minister said on television that she wanted everything to take place on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u253	No, it is not, because there are already legislative proposals in the Chamber at the end of this year. That's what the schematics and the letter say. So that's impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u254	Are you going to do something about your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u255	I'd like to do that, but I'd have to have an indication of the time limit that the minister has set. After all, I can't do anything else in Blaue hinein right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u256	I'm not gonna do that. Mrs Bruins Slot asks me for care, but also for support from all parties. I have indicated how I see about the time table. She'll be able to see Mrs. Bruins Slot in no time. I gave her the route and the time schedule. I would like to start the discussion and then inform the Chamber about the results and, therefore, about the progress of this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u257	Thank you. Then we've come to the end of this. No? Mrs. Bouwmeester.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u258	I didn't have a motion, Mr. Chairman, but I did have two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u259	That's right. Mr Slob had three points. He asked whether the House's views would be taken into account in front of the wall. Of course. We then have a good conversation, which, I hope, we also finish well with each other. Mr Slob is right about the legal basis. The Wkkgz is in the Upper House. Of course, the quality requirements will not find a place in them until they have been accepted. I have such a feeling that these quality requirements will also play a role in the debate on this Wkkgz. As far as the position of the insured vis-à-vis the insurers is concerned, I have already said that I am inclined to accept Mr Slob's proposal to make it a law. I always like speed, so I'll try to do that in order and at a good pace. Carefulness is important. I don't know what kind of legal stuff is attached to it. If they're not attached to it, the Chamber will get it pretty soon. I see its importance and the support it has. Mrs. Bouwmeester wants to know how we're going to put pressure on doctors. I must say that doctors are strongly involved in the main agreement. I believe that they also play a positive role there. Also on the transparency agenda, the doctors were the first to call me and say: "You really want to take big steps with the patients. We'd like to be there. We're already dealing with patients on that quality agenda. We just want to take those steps towards transparency and good declaration." I therefore believe that we have both the first-line and the second-line doctors well involved in that agenda. If it goes wrong with individual doctors, if there are deliberate errors in declarations, we actually have the way to the disciplinary court. I believe that we have talked about this this week or last week in the debate on fraud. The Disputes Committee isn't here yet. If there is, it is important that the supervisor takes it with him in his risk-driven supervision. I find that the nice thing about the National Reporting Point Care: on the one hand, you have a good complaint handling for those who complain, on the other hand, you can actually improve your system by getting the signals you get at that reporting point. I looked there myself. They hung up the data at the hotline. So you can see very well where the peaks and the valleys are. That says something about health care. It gives important information.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-02-11-tweedekamer-8.u260	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate on the Internet.
