ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u1	I have already welcomed the Foreign and Defence Ministers. At the beginning of this debate I would like to mention the tragic death of two Dutch soldiers in Mali: Captain René Zeetsen and First Lieutenant Ernst Mollinger. They have had to pay the highest price for their commitment to peace and stability in this region. Our thoughts are with their family and friends and with the colleagues of the MINUSMA mission. In the debate, Mr Franken has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. President Obama said, following the Nuclear Security Summit in The Hague in March last year, that Europe should become less dependent on Russia for its energy and less dependent on the United States for its defence. I would like to use this statement as a motto for this contribution to this afternoon's debate. This will be a policy debate, for which two ministers are now at the table, who may speak for three, but because we are talking about international security, we need also the rulers of State, V and J and EZ, in terms of energy policy. The reason for this debate is that we are now living in an unstable international security environment. Many citizens are deeply concerned about this. The title of the policy letter, which we are discussing today, refers to: Turbulent times in an unstable environment. The note contains a good description, partly based on the reports published by Clingendael and the Hague Center for Strategic Studies (HCSS) in the framework of the strategic monitor. We see this instability primarily on the eastern flanks of Europe with the Ukraine crisis. The annexation of Crimea has resulted in a clear violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, which is also contrary to the guarantees given to Ukraine under the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances (1994), on the basis of which Ukraine has surrendered its nuclear weapons. In addition, it appeared that Russia gave military support to separatist groups. Destabilization also had consequences outside the immediate region due to the disaster with the MH17. We can also see that economic interests are playing a high role here: rapprochement with the EU or participation in a Eurasian Union, with pressure on the supply of gas. From the south flanks we are shocked daily by shocking images of terrorist activities and warfare between Sunni and Shiite militias. The situation is completely unclear and the causes of the struggle are complex. Religious and ethnic groups play a role, but also changes in the political landscape and unemployment of large groups of young people, for whom there is no prospect. In Syria and Iraq there is strong polarisation and the support of jihadi-salafism is growing. An Islamic State (IS) is established, which attracts jihad fighters from all over the world, including from the Netherlands. Furthermore, former fighters against the American troops in Iraq are now taking part in the fight against the established regimes. There is a bloody war there with great material. We must also realise that there has been a civil war in Syria for years, which has led to at least 200,000 people killed and over 6 million refugees, of whom 3 million have emigrated to Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey and are being taken care of there for the time being. It seems that ISIS has also penetrated Turkey. Are measures also being taken at international level? This is my first question from a whole series, chairman. The enormous flow of refugees in these areas puts heavy pressure on the southern borders of Europe, partly because of the large numbers of people trying to cross the Mediterranean in dangerous boats. The tragic consequences of the many failures of that crossing make a deep impression. We believe it is right that the Dutch Government should therefore contribute to the Frontex operation Triton and would like to know whether the Netherlands will respond positively to a possible request from the Italian authorities to increase its contribution if the rescue capacity in the Mediterranean is insufficient. It is also worrying to hear that Greece is considering opening the border with Turkey to refugees. On the other hand, we were surprised to hear this weekend that the VVD is suddenly in favour of a completely different asylum policy. We'd like to hear what's supposed to happen now. I would mention another destabilising development described in the reports by Clingendael and HCSS. I am referring to the continuing shift in global and political power relations, in which energy policy plays an important role. We see China manifesting itself worldwide, not only to provide itself with an increased need for natural resources, but also through a clear presence in the East and South China Seas. China's defence spending has increased considerably and we are seeing cyber capabilities and activities grow. The relationship with the US appears to be increasingly under pressure. "The risk" is what the Minister rightly writes "on an open confrontation is increasing." In short, the picture sketched is gloomy for the Netherlands. We agree on this point. But then the question arises: what to do? For this purpose, the Cabinet not only refers to the policy choices of the International Security Strategy of mid-2013, but updates it following the changes just outlined now that potential threats have become real threats and new threats have been added. In the clear note, for which I congratulate you, three strategic interests have first been distinguished, which are then worked out in six policy accents. These strategic interests are: the defence of its own and alliance territory; a well-functioning international legal order; economic security. We support the designation of these interests, but we do have a number of questions to ask. The first interest of territorial and allergic security is crystal clear, but can the Dutch Government take sufficient short-term and longer-term measures to ensure this all-encompassing solidarity? Can the Dutch Government meet the demand to respond more quickly to possible threats against NATO territory? Within NATO, greater demands are made for readiness, rapid employability and the availability of military capabilities. Is the Dutch commitment to the EU Battlegroup and NATO Response Force up to date? Are the financial consequences adequately covered? Are new investments needed? By the way, does hybrid warfare, like Eastern Ukraine, fall under Article 5 of the NATO Treaty? This is a relevant question in connection with the possible expansion of conflicts in Eastern Europe. We are happy to welcome the consultation initiated by Merkel and Hollande with Putin and Poroshenko, and we assume that the government fully supports these actions, in particular through the OSCE, and is generously contributing to their financing. After all, the work of the Special Monitoring Mission entails high costs. Human expansion is immense, but it is necessary. Maintaining the international legal order, the second interest mentioned, requires well-functioning international organisations, the Member States of which comply with the rules. Can we talk about this when a permanent member of the UN Security Council fails to comply with the rules governing the movement of the Member States and international organisation's actions are constantly vetoed? In this context, I would also like to ask myself: are the decision-making procedures at the UN and, in particular, at the OSCE still adequate? This latter organisation has been given an important role in monitoring and hopefully in resolving the conflict in eastern Ukraine. But it can only be decided by consensus. Does this mean that the OSCE can or should only function as a platform? It is remarkable, moreover, that this organisation has still not acquired international legal personality. ISIS is a non-state actor. How can IS support states and or groups be addressed? Instability and deterioration of the legal system call for an organised approach. What international organisations currently have the status and approach of ISIS on the agenda and, if so, how and when are these violations of international law addressed? Is there or isn't there a conversation with Assad on the horizon? There are contradictory reports about this. What is the Dutch government's commitment to? I see there's already a lot of consultation going on. Then there is a question about the black spot on the image of the US, which consists of the continued maintenance of the Guantánamo Bay prison camp, on which several UN special rapporteurs have reacted very critically without any response. Recently, in the OSCE context, a request has been made to countries outside the US to take on or take over some detainees. Does that really have to be the end of it? Has such a request been made to the Netherlands? Moreover, it has been asked before whether the Dutch Government, following the Snowden revelations, has expressed any disapproval of the US government, as Steinmeier did in Germany. Has there been a Dutch reaction? With regard to economic security, the third strategic interest, we must look at energy providers other than Russia. The US and Canada will soon become major shale gas exporters. That gas will have to be transported overseas. For our Navy, this will lead to new tasks. Will the Dutch Navy receive sufficient attention in the investment plans now that so many priorities have been set for the Air Force? I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to give an overview of this. Finally, in this context, the question of how the government intends to proceed in relation to the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TIIP). It is being worked on even today, but there are still considerable bumps where the tension between the freedom of state policy on the one hand and the protection of investors on the other is a crucial element. According to the government, what should the ISDS, the Investor-State Dispute Settlement, look like? And another question: what are the chances of relaunching the WTO negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u3	I understand from the CDA's words that it is taken for granted that shale gas should at least cover part of our future energy needs. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u4	You say "of course." Then I didn't have to ask a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u5	I did not hear a question from Mr Franken about the supply of shale gas. All I heard was a question about the protection of the transports. That is why I was wondering whether it was indeed a matter of course for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u6	I can't say yet, but it's a possibility. You have to take opportunities into account, especially when you're going to make certain investments. I'm not saying I embrace shale gas. With the current oil price, it is not so attractive to develop shale gas, but we must not close our eyes to the fact that it can happen elsewhere in the world. Perhaps at some point you should choose the least of two evils and the green character of GroenLinks will not be able to oppose them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u7	I shall come back to that in my own term, because this does not seem to me to be the most desirable solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u8	I await Mr Ganzevoort's opinion with interest, so that we can discuss it further. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few comments on the proposed policy priorities. More European responsibility for our defence sounds good. Obama expressly recommended it to us, and Juncker recently advocated the formation of a European army in Die Welt, which, of course, means a European military force to be able to conduct a common foreign and security policy. But if we start thinking now, and I remain more modest than the President of the Commission of the European Union for the time being, about strengthening the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and the common security and defence policy (CSDP), then we see that we have been talking for years, but hardly any results are being achieved. I assume that Mr Van Kappen will certainly go into the plan to form an EU Battlegroup in the framework of the CSDP. Three weeks ago, it was discussed again in Riga. Unfortunately, I could not attend, but Mr Van Kappen gave an introduction on this subject. The question I would like to ask the cabinet is: what are the concrete results? Can the Dutch Government not even take a step forward in this? In the policy letter, the government shows its good will, but has an action plan been adopted? It is also a good thing that a new and active High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy is now in office. If I see it correctly, it will also develop a new European security strategy. This could provide a framework for institutional re-evaluation, prioritisation within the CSDP and allocation of resources. Will the government support such action positively? In a letter dated 7 November 2014, the Minister gave an overview of the current state of play regarding our participation in a number of specific forms of defence cooperation in Europe. According to the Minister, the Netherlands would play a leading role here. Is that a promise we can still count on? I hope for a well-founded answer. My group is in favour of more money for defence, but would like to link it to more cooperation and division of labour with the allies. I have one final question about Europe. As far as the defence industry is concerned, we should also maintain a clear European course, in which we stimulate our own employment and loosen up the US. After all, the F-35 project already links us to the American market. Finally, a remark of a completely different nature. The Defence budget states that there is investment in a cyber and networking and a chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear response structure. Cyber is also covered in the policy letter. Now cyber is suddenly a fashion word for everything related to information technology. However, I can distinguish between cybersecurity breaks and cyberwar in case there is a political purpose involved. And that's fast and easy to reach. Large-scale attacks on information systems and infections with malicious software can totally paralyze a society. Soon we will depend on up to 25 billion internet-connected devices. Then we get the Internet or things. All these devices are connected to the Internet and will play a role in everyone's daily lives. Security in this area is being considered in the Netherlands. We have a National Cyber Security Center, which belongs to the NCTB, and Defence has recently acquired a Cyber Command. NATO issued a communiqué at the Summit in Wales stating: "Cyberdefence is part of NATO's core task of collective defence. A decision as to when a cyber attack would lead to invocation of Article 5 would be taken by the North Atlantic Council on a case-by-case basis." That may sound reassuring, but standards of behaviour will have to be agreed and capacity built up. I'd like to take a look at the Minister's plans. Drones are also part of the cyber defence. They will soon be replacing manned aircraft to an ever greater extent. The Chief of Naval Operations of the U.S. Navy is even quoted in the NRC of 5 March last with a message that rapid developments in sensor technology exceed stealth technology, and thus the JSF's big sales argument. Stealth may make it harder to pick up F-35 aircraft with radar, but doesn't make them invisible. Then it is true that a kite in a safe seat on the ground is not only for cost reasons to prefer. I am aware that there are other aspects of drone deployment, but it seems that the US Navy is adjusting its purchasing plans and reducing the number of F-35s on the roll to keep the road open for other techniques, including drones. Should we not also consider these considerations? I would like to put an urgent question to our Secretary of Defense. Three D's, Diplomacy, Defence and Development, determine this debate. I'll talk about D's with a capital letter. In the present circumstances, however, we will have to place emphasis on two small D's, namely those of pressure and dialogue, where we believe that dialogue should and should remain the constant one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u9	Madam President. Thank you also on behalf of the PvdA for the dignified way in which you commemorated our two soldiers who died in Mali. The international security situation has many lows in recent years. MH17, IS, Boko Haram, Crimea, Syria and Libya symbolize that. East-West relations have changed dramatically. The government rightly states in the letter to the Chamber that the world has become "complexer and more unpredictable." 70 years after the creation of the United Nations as the collective security organisation and exactly 40 years after the Helsinki Final Act, we have been sober again. We must almost cling to the anchors of the international legal order with its various consultative forums to prevent us from slipping into a new Cold War, into chaos in the Middle East and various parts of Africa and into an uncontrolled arms race. At the same time, international security is threatened by the emergence of all kinds of non-state entities involved in the struggle: I mentioned all the terrorist organisations Boko Haram and the Islamic State. Al-Qaeda, Al-Nusra, Hezbollah, Al-Shabaab in Somalia, the Resistance Army of the Lord, plundering and insecure parts of Africa, and others can be added to this list. It also raises the question of how to deal with these non-state organisations in international relations. After all, we cannot equate them all. In practice, we find the Russian insurgents in Eastern Ukraine, the Taliban and certain Syrian resistance groups of a different order than IS, Al-Qaeda, Hezbollah, Al-Shabaab and Boko Haram. Following on from Mr Franken's questions, can the government indicate criteria for distinguishing between these non-state groups and how to characterize them? When will they be terrorist organizations? When are they rebellious movements that control and even govern a particular area, when are they partners in the search for a criminal dictatorial regime to move to a new legal and democratic regime and when are they an unsurpassable interlocutor in the search for lasting peace? What contribution could and should our defence make to deal with these threats? Now that the Minister of Defence is showing such an active commitment in the field of defence cooperation in Europe, we are pleased to ask here too what kind of cooperation is conceivable here and what form it could take. The situation in Syria is unbearable and contrary to any notion of human dignity, freedom and justice. A few hundred thousand victims and millions of refugees and displaced persons are particularly clear that there is no military solution to this conflict. A coalition of the US, Arabic and Western allies, including the Netherlands, is systematically bombing the theories of IS, but it is clear that this movement and its ideology cannot be bombarded from the air. In Afghanistan, the Netherlands acquired some international name and fame as a frontrunner of the so-called 3D approach: Defense, Diplomacy and Development. There is the impression that states in Syria are more committed to Defense, humanitarian assistance and refugee aid and less to Diplomacy and Development, in the sense of a sustained commitment to contribute to reconstruction and capacity building. It is clear that the West cannot solve the Syrian problem alone. This requires competent multilateral peace diplomacy, with China, Russia and countries and organisations from the Arab region in a leading role. Unlike the current image in our media, the Security Council is not completely paralyzed on the Syrian file. For example, miracle is the mandatory programme for the decommissioning and disposal of chemical weapons based on Security Council Resolution 2218 almost completely completed in 2014 in close cooperation between the UN and the OPCW under the leadership of the Dutch-based UN leader Sigrid Kaag. Some progress has also been made on a number of other fronts. I refer to Security Council Resolution 2139 on the obligation of all parties to respect human rights and international humanitarian law, as well as to give international humanitarian aid a wide scope in conflict areas. In July 2014, the Council, alarmed by the continued and even intensified shelling of civilian-occupied areas, hostages, decapitations and other terrorist acts, stated in Resolution 2165 that the deteriorating humanitarian situation in Syria constitutes a "threat to peace'. It is quite remarkable that in this resolution the Security Council decides that UN humanitarian organisations and their executive partners may, if necessary, enter the country without permission but with notification to the Syrian authorities on certain routes in order to provide humanitarian aid. Thus, in a limited way, the old rule of humanitarian aid to a country in need is undermined which requires the consent of the government of that country. Our group welcomes this because the government of a country in serious need should not have the freedom to withhold international humanitarian aid from its citizens. How does the Dutch Government assess this development, partly in the light of the situation that the Russian Government sent aid convoys to the Russian population in the east of that country a few weeks later without the permission of the Ukrainian Government? Finally, I would like to mention several resolutions in which the Security Council describes IS, ANF and related movements as terrorist organisations and aligns them with Al-Qaeda. Any financial or other support to these organisations must in any case be made impossible. How does the government assess compliance with this resolution and, in particular, cutting off the financial flows from Arab wave states to IS? I also ask the government whether, in its opinion, the measures taken in the Netherlands are sufficient to prevent money being channelled through our banks to or from IS targets. Meanwhile, after Kofi Annan and Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN top man De Mistura continues hercules work as special envoy of Ban Ki-moon for Syria. Unlike in some other conflict situations, it is clear that China, Russia, Iran and other key players in the region have no sympathy whatsoever for the Islamic State and their extremism. Does the government share this assessment? Does the government have any ideas about the more active organisation of a peace coalition for Syria? In our deep conviction, arms supplies to Syrian groups do not contribute to this. Is it not true that the use of a robust UN peacekeeping operation, which is carried out on an international scale and with 'boot on the ground', is at the root of reality? Does the government see the possibility of contributing, through Europe and in cooperation with similar countries, including Turkey, to breaking the international stalemate which continues to lead to unacceptable new numbers of victims every day? After the cuts and the growing emphasis on economic diplomacy, does Dutch diplomacy still have the human power and the capacity to think about this in its own right, or should we leave it to the European level in particular? We took note with great interest of the recent EU Communication on the EU regional strategy for Syria and Iraq and the threat posed by ISIS. In the otherwise good cabinet response of 13 March, the government still assumes that there should be absolutely no discussion with the Assad regime. How does the government then assess the turnaround in American foreign policy in the sense that Minister Kerry has announced that he would also want to enter into further contact with the Assad regime? In 2005, the UN World Summit took a huge step forward with the acceptance by the Heads of State or Government of the new normative principle Responsibility to Protect: national governments have a primary responsibility to protect their citizens from international crime, but if they fail or are not prepared to protect, a second-line responsibility of the international community applies. It is wrong to associate this principle solely with international military action. Responsibility to Protect has a much wider scope, which has been summarized by Ban Ki-moon in the three-stroke prevent, react, rebuild. This new principle constituted the legal basis for the UN intervention in Kenya following the electoral violence in 2007, in Libya in the protection of civilians and civilian populated areas in 2011 and idem in Côte d'Ivoire in 2011. Does the government share the view that this principle of Responsibility to Protect should also apply to the situation in Syria? If so, does it see opportunities to promote this internationally in the given situation with full implementation of the UN Trial, namely to prevent further escalation of the prevent of an adequate response, if necessary by military means based on a UN mandate, reacting and, finally, rebuilt, i.e. the willingness to contribute to reconstruction and capacity building? At the proverbial stone's throw away from Syria, the security drama between Israel and the Palestinian territories is taking place. For a long time we have cherished hope that the peace initiative of the US Foreign Minister Kerry will bear fruit. This Dutch government too has put almost all its cards on this for a long time. A substantive response to the AIV report on this point has in fact not been forthcoming. Unfortunately, we have to note that the peace talks have remained stable. Resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is of great importance to the entire world community. The PvdA is and remains for a two-state solution. We are striving for an independent, viable Palestinian state alongside the State of Israel within secure and internationally recognised borders. This provides the best guarantee for peace, security and prosperity, for living alongside and with each other of both Israelis and Palestinians. Israel, as the strongest party, has a special responsibility to limit the use of force and to take the initiative to advance the peace process, but we also demand an unconditional halt to all rocket fire on Israel by Hamas from the Gaza Strip. The Netherlands and the EU should make better use of their good links to both Israel and the Palestinian Authority to support the peace process. Too often American initiatives are awaited. Too little is a European line chosen. Of course, a constructive European contribution can only be achieved if the EU is broadly united.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u10	I am listening very carefully to Mr Schrijver's speech. He says that we must continue on the path we have taken. There is probably a new government in Israel, with a prime minister who believes that a two-state solution is now out of the question. The President of the United States has said that as long as Netanyahu rules, a two-state solution is off the table. In this new situation, does the Labour Party consider it appropriate to determine its position on other steps that could be taken to resolve the conflict, such as the official recognition of the State of Palestine or the effective participation of Palestine in the International Criminal Court, by putting these steps back on the agenda? Or are we just gonna wait until Netanyahu disappears at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u11	Thank you for your interesting questions. I shall come back to that in some detail later. Some of these steps are simply on the agenda, because they are made as they become parties to the International Criminal Court. However, we are concerned that the two-state solution is being detected. There is a serious increase in the construction of illegal settlements on the West Bank and in East Jerusalem. This has taken place in such a way that even less territory for an independent Palestinian state is likely to remain. There is a danger that the Palestinian State will be further reduced to a number of enclaves surrounded by Israeli territory. In its opinion to our Chamber, the AIV also states: "If no movement is made in the Middle East peace process in the short term, the achievement of a two-state solution may prove to be a crossing station." Does the government share this concern and does it remain of the opinion that the International Court of Justice's opinion on the Israeli wall should be respected by all parties in the area? What possibilities does the government still see to persuade the parties to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u12	My colleague, Mr Kox, was just trying, and then Mr Schrijver said that he would come back to that in detail. But I have now listened to the continuation of his speech and I do not hear anything yet. I therefore repeat Mr Kox's question: does Mr Schrijver think that the Dutch cabinet should now take up the envisaged two-state solution with the accelerated recognition of the State of Palestine? Or is he just sketching the trial again?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u13	We believe that this should be part of the peace process. We are in favour of the two-state solution and therefore also of the recognition of a Palestinian state.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u14	Then I'll make the question even more specific. I will come back to it in detail later. Do you think that the Netherlands, like Sweden for example, should make all these statements now? Minister Koenders has always said to wait for a strategically significant point. One could say: after the elections in Israel, that point seems to have come. Do you share that opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u15	I share that view and I will explain why. Over the past period, too, there has been much to do about the recognition or non-recognition of a Palestinian state. Sweden has recognised the existence of Palestine as a state as 135th state. In the AVN, Palestine may join as an observer state, as a non-member observer state. In some specialised organisations, Palestine has already been admitted as a full member. All this indicates the existence of Palestine as an independent state. There is much to say that Palestine, however it is recognised, already exists as a state, and apparently two thirds of the world community does. Moreover, in international law, the existence of a state has for some time no longer depended on recognition by third States. In the present time, the so-called declaratory theory is particularly important. Whether or not a state exists depends above all on the following four criteria, as expressed in the Montevideo Convention: is there a state area, is there a state people, is there a more or less effective state authority and can the state defend its own international relations? Does the government share the view that Palestine largely meets these four criteria and is therefore already de facto a state? If the Government's reply is affirmative, can it indicate when it considers an effective recognition to be appropriate? Recognition, Mr Kox, in this case delayed recognition, is merely a determination of existing facts. The Palestinian Authority has also ratified a large number of important multilateral conventions over the past year, including the Convention on the Law of the Sea, Diplomatic Conventions, the Anti-corruption Convention, various human rights treaties......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... My group welcomes the fact that Palestine is thus joining the international legal order and is therefore also subject to the relevant international monitoring procedures. Can we hear from the government how it assesses this ratification of a large number of multilateral treaties by Palestine, in particular the Statute for the International Criminal Court? From the fires in the Middle East, I move on to the Ukraine crisis. The devastating conflicts in eastern Ukraine have already claimed 6,000 deaths in one year and several tens of thousands injured. The tensions between Western countries and Russia have also increased so high that they are beginning to appear dangerously similar to the situation at the time of the Cold War. Fortunately, several consultation forums have been maintained, including those of the OSCE, the EU and the Eastern Partnership and several ad hoc groups, including the Normandy Group and the Trilateral Contact Group. The latter consists of Ukraine, the Russian-speaking insurgents and the OSCE, which tried to reach peace agreements with Russia and Belarus on several occasions in Minsk in 2014. In practice, however, they proved to have little effect in the conflict areas. Next came the remarkable and commendable peace initiative of Chancellor Merkel and the French President Hollande as part of the Normandy Group. In Minsk, on 12 February this year, following a marathon negotiation, a package of measures for the implementation of the Minsk agreements was put in place to create, in conjunction, the basis for lasting peace in Ukraine. This includes a ceasefire, a withdrawal of heavy weapons, OSCE monitoring and verification and, strikingly, constitutional reform through this Treaty in Ukraine by the end of 2015 at the latest aimed at decentralisation and the special status of certain areas. This constitutional reform and the legislation to be based on it provide for immunity and amnesty, fortunately, not for those responsible for the MH17 disaster in language self-decision, for state aid to these regions and for cross-border cooperation with neighbouring regions in Russia. My group was very encouraged that only a few days after this agreement between Merkel, Hollande, Putin and Poroshenko, on 17 February, the entire Security Council unanimously supported this package of measures, including the ceasefire. Initially, the struggle seemed to continue fiercely, but fortunately, in recent weeks, we have seen signs of hope that the first parts of the package of measures will be respected. What can Europe do to ensure that there is no derailment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u16	I fully share your speech so far, except when you said that the agreement between the four Heads of Government seems to be paying off. Last night I was unsuspectingly staring at Nieuwsuur and saw that around the corner of Marioepol the battles were completely rekindling. You are immediately suspected that the separatists also want to occupy Marioepol so that the entire line along the Black Sea from Crimea is secured from Russian perspective. I am very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u17	That is why the international monitoring role of the OSCE, for example, as well as the continued involvement of important countries in the Normandy talks, including Russia, is so important. My question was: what role does the Netherlands see for itself? Is there also a role in the field of defence, for example? If so, which one? Mr. Chairman. Minister Koenders portrayed his politics towards Russia as "the fist and the hand." Sanctions are the fist and make it clear that we find Russian politics against Ukraine unacceptable. Can the government give an estimate of how this policy of the fist has served the various objectives so far? What has been achieved? We also call on the government to indicate how it has so far been active in shaping its policy. Does the EU, the West, still have sufficient communication channels open with the Russians to engage in mutually meaningful consultations? More than we could have thought possible a few years ago, the OSCE has a key role to play, as is also stated in the Minsk agreements. For a long time the organization looked like her and with her somewhat undecided range of tasks and functions she seemed almost like a relic from the period of the Cold War. Now its role as an institutionalized consultative body, permanently available for an open dialogue between East and West, is again essential. It is a good thing that within one organisation we can consult and work together in an integrated way on peace and security, economic cooperation and human rights, which are the three baskets of Helsinki. It was also encouraging to learn during the OSCE's recent Parliamentary Assembly how hands-on and bridges building the Serbian Foreign Minister as OSCE President, the special Swiss female ambassador for the Ukraine crisis and the Turkish Head of the Special Monitoring Mission in Eastern Ukraine operate in the Ukraine crisis, as far as possible also in cooperation with the High Commissioner on National Minorities established in The Hague. The mission in eastern Ukraine is doing a great job according to circumstances, but its possibilities with a limited number of unarmed observers in a very vast area should not be overestimated. The question arises as to whether the Ukraine crisis does not exceed the strength of the OSCE, especially if the mission in the field is once again faced with enormous resistance or sabotage. I'd like the government's vision on this. What opportunities does the government see for the OSCE observers to be better equipped for their tasks? Can the work of the OSCE, which is also a regional organisation under Chapter VIII of the UN Charter, not be supplemented and strengthened by a UN peacekeeping operation, as proposed by President Poroshenko? What is the view of the Netherlands on this? What could be our contribution? Finally. Never washed a good crisis to strengthen the OSCE's ability to act...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u18	I put an alternative to Mr Schrijver. He is proposing a UN peacekeeping mission to support the OSCE because its strength is being put to the test. I was at the Venice Commission last Saturday to discuss the role that this committee and the Council of Europe can play in Ukraine. Much of Minsk II concerns reform in the state of Ukraine, constitutional reform, decentralisation, a new electoral law, and a law of purification other than that which the government now intends to pursue. Such major legislative processes cannot be carried out by the OSCE because of the nature of the OSCE. The Council of Europe actually has all the elements: the Venice Commission, the Committee of Ministers, the monitoring, a special observer in the Ukrainian parliament of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. Wouldn't it be obvious that this is a suggestion to say that the OSCE has done its job and that the Council of Europe should be brought in because it is already working on this new legislation? If we wait too long, as if the Constitution had not been amended on 1 October, the whole of Minsk II will fall apart again, as I have heard on Saturday. Would that be something the PvdA Group would like to argue for? It is a means that is available and we do not have to come up with anything new. A UN peacekeeping mission would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u19	I would like to thank Mr Kox for this interesting additional information. We would certainly like to support that, but we do not see it as an alternative to the OSCE. It's en-and. It's an integrated approach. Mr Kox mentioned issues such as building good governance, the rule of law and helping with better and more effective legislation. These contributions could well come from the Council of Europe. Unlike what he suggested, the OSCE is far from complete with its task of monitoring. The OSCE is not specialised in keeping warring parties apart and is unarmed in the area purely for observation. For a full-fledged peace operation, you actually need a classic blue helmet operation. That is the integrated approach I advocated with Mr Kox. I said never washed a good crisis. How could we strengthen the capacity of the OSCE to act in a more general sense and improve decision-making? Mr Franken has already spoken about this. How could we try to prevent political divisions within the organisation? Our group considers it irresponsible that the OSCE does not enjoy its own international legal personality. This means that participants in OSCE missions and staff of the organisation for their international protection depend on national legislation in the countries where they operate. Furthermore, the OSCE cannot itself conclude treaties. Nor can the organisation itself defend its rights and interests in judicial proceedings. For a long time it has been the United States that has thwarted the recognition of the international legal personality of this security organisation in Europe, under the pretext that they wanted a flexible organisation. In 2007 there was almost a compromise, partly under Dutch leadership, leading to the acceptance of an international legal personality and the settlement of privileges and immunities, but at the last moment that failed. Now it is the Russians who want more, namely a charter for the organisation and not just a regulation of legal-technical matters. Perhaps there is something to be said for that, although my group believes that the effectiveness of the organisation and the security of the staff can no longer be delayed by the recognition of the international legal personality and regulation of the privileges and immunities of the staff. We would like to hear a reaction from the government. Does it see opportunities to take these issues forward? The 40th anniversary of the Helsinki Act offers an excellent opportunity for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u20	I like to think along in this direction, because it is an extremely important point, but play the devil's lawyer for a moment. Could it be that the current state of the OSCE, sometimes somewhat under the formal radar, offers a number of possibilities that will become more difficult if a much larger and stronger mandate is created? I am not asking for this because we are opposed to the proposal, but to think about the pros and cons of the different status.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u21	That's a very interesting question. In the question I hear the American view that it is best to have as flexible an organisation as possible. If, God forbid, there is a serious incident in Eastern Ukraine tomorrow with OSCE observers, if they are taken hostage or perhaps worse, then they cannot claim international protection. They will then be handed over to the directors of the area and of the surrounding countries. I find it irresponsible to send members of such extremely dangerous missions into the field in this way. Besides, you don't have to take care of everything in detail. There are many examples of founding treaties of international organisations which may only have three or four pages and which have built-in flexibility. Above all, I want to achieve a slight institutionalisation. I am counting on having Mr Ganzevoort on my side. I am very much in favour of this integrated approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u22	On the main lines, Mr Schrijver certainly finds me on his side. But the question is what we're losing. You gain a lot of protection and possibly with it, but it may be that you end up in the same paralysis as some other organisations. Now, precisely because it sometimes moves between organisations, the OSCE may be able to achieve something that is no longer possible if you give it too much of an international institutionalized form. Do we not run that risk if we institutionalize too much?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u23	Theoretically, Mr Ganzevoort may have a point, but I do not think it is the case in practice. Mr Franken has already referred to the decision-making process by consensus. That's the customary rule. On the contrary, I would hope that such a slight institutionalisation in the form of a new OSCE charter will lead to majority decision-making, if necessary a qualified majority as is the case in many formalised international organisations. My speech has shown that we believe that peace and security, today's subject, are not only about wars between and within states, but certainly also about respect for human rights, building and maintaining the rule of law, good governance and sustainable development, a subject that I regret I will not be able to deal with anymore. Part of this broad approach to security is the shared responsibility of national states, various international organisations, non-governmental and social movements, the private sector and also individual citizens. Only with a sustained, joint commitment of a wide range of instruments, political, economic, diplomatic and military, can our ideal of peaceful and safe living for everyone, wherever in the world. Does the government share the view that this calls for the restoration of both our defence and our international development efforts and our diplomacy? After all, this is also a matter of self-interest. We look forward with great interest to the Government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u24	Before the cabinet responds to this general, fair, question, I would ask Mr Schrijver for clarification. He mentions not only an increase in defence expenditure, but also in the development budget. Does he want to go back to a higher percentage in the Netherlands? My second question follows on from that. Is the PvdA prepared to change direction across the board, not only to increase the defence budget and development expenditure, but also to open more diplomatic posts after a number of years of closure?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u25	In this Chamber we recently supported the Kuiper motion in the area of improved defence efforts. I would remind you that we also supported the Kox motion on the return to the 0.7% standard for official development aid as soon as the financial and economic conditions allow. Like Mr Van Boxtel, I am an optimist, so I see that lies ahead. Hopefully, with the support of its party, the Netherlands will be able to return to that international target of 0.7%. I am pleased that some of the cuts in the diplomatic posts network have been reduced and that more could be invested in peace diplomacy. It is my fervent wish and that of my group that we should be able to do something about it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u26	Mr. Chairman. I believe that few of us have anticipated the recent disruptive upheavals and geopolitical shocks that have so radically changed the security landscape in Europe. If we take a look at the future, then the prediction is short and good: even more shocks, disruption and uncertainty. Moreover, the most important studies which seek to look at the future predict that instability at the borders of Europe is not a temporary phenomenon. In addition to increasing tensions in Eastern Europe, we are also witnessing the total disintegration of the Middle East, increasing instability in North Africa, the emergence of apocalyptic terrorist groups such as ISIS and increasing uncontrolled refugee flows. Our neighborhoods are on fire, the fire is far from gone and there is a real danger that the fire will take hold. In the rest of the world, too, instability is increasing. The global tensions increase the risk of unintended and uncontrolled escalation between the major powers, while at the same time the global multilateral consultation systems developed in the twentieth century are operating more and more difficult. The dominance of the West is declining rapidly and the so-called BRICS countries are not a coherent whole. They often act in occasional coalitions, which are not primarily aimed at maintaining the international legal order, but in which the size and composition of the coalition is determined by the importance that must be safeguarded. So it is not the coalition that determines the mission, but it is the mission that determines the coalition. Next to the G8 and the G20 we now have to deal with the rise of the GX. It is no longer natural for the Member States of the EU and NATO to carry out operations within the European or Atlantic security structure. This trend is a clear signal that the current security architecture in Europe is not satisfactory: too slow, too bureaucratic, too complex and too rigid. In addition, in view of the increasing tensions in the Pacific region, Washington wants to shift its strategic focus to this area. This so-called "pivot to Asia" is also not a temporary phenomenon. After all, the US assumes that in the longer term China will not be Russia, but will be its most important strategic opponent on the world stage. Washington will therefore continue to put pressure on Europe to take more responsibility for managing the security situation on the European continent and the neighbouring region. Most Europeans are slowly, albeit reluctantly, convinced that Europe needs to do more, but the uncomfortable truth is that Europe is less and less capable. In fact, decades of cuts in defence budgets in most European countries have led to Europe's lack of a number of nuclear capabilities in the field of defence. Europe has so far not even been able to achieve the Headline Goal established at Helsinki to bring a joint force of 60 000 men to life. Even the even more modest objective of forming a number of EU Battlegroups has never come to fruition. The battlegroups were never deployed because the countries that had to supply the troops could not agree on the deployment and funding of the stakes. Europe is facing a huge challenge in the field of security and defence in a world that is becoming more unsafe and the threats are becoming ever closer to home.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u27	I would like to ask a question about the EU-Battle Groups, because this raises a key question throughout the whole of Europe's debate, namely how we deal with our sovereignty and the transfer of sovereignty in acute emergencies if, for example, we want more power at European defence level. Could Mr Van Kappen say something about that? That's where this is touching. Now 27 parliaments have to discuss who is being used where or not, and that has so far led to nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u28	Thank you for this question. I was going to come back to it later in my speech, but since I think that is an unsporting answer, I will answer the question right now. I am convinced that if we stick very closely to the principle of sovereignty as we have applied it so far, we risk losing our collective sovereignty as a continent. Sovereignty is by definition a relative concept. For EU Battlegroups, there have always been two major stumbling blocks. It is a multinational unit that must be able to respond within five to fifteen days. All the countries that supply troops must go through their own procedures to deploy them. So you'll never make it out of his days of life... those five to fifteen days. At the same time, it is often the case that the costs lie where they fall. So there's always moth about who's gonna pay for it all. The Dutch delegation recently presented a proposal for this in Riga. We have said that we really need to get rid of the permanent composition of the EU Battle Groups. One time you have an EU-Battlegroup that is maritime-oriented while something happens on land. The other time you have an EU-Battlegroup that's land-oriented, and then there's something out at sea. You actually have to go to a modular system, where as Europe you make a tub with air assets, air force capacity, a stuff with maritime capabilities and a stuff with army capabilities. There's got to be redundancy in that. So there must be several squadrons in this stuff, from different countries. Then you have choice and flexibility. If the crisis develops, you can merge those modules into a unit tailored to the crisis. Moreover, if one country says 'don't you dare, because I can't get it through my parliament', then I'm sure there's another country that has a squadron too. You will have both political and military flexibility. As far as payment is concerned, we have the Althea mechanism. The costs to be shared are set out in the Annex. We are calling for three meetings from Athens to be looked at very carefully and for the annex to the Althea mechanism to be extended. Then the costs can be spread out a little more. We must also try to get political preparation to begin at the same time as military preparation. We have therefore also called for a political preparatory group. Countries that deliver the modules will therefore also have to regularly have their parliamentarians look at it, have to talk about it and have the whole system followed. Then you get a much faster idea of which countries want to participate and which countries don't. That is very briefly the proposal we put forward in Riga. I will continue with my speech. The VVD Group is convinced that no European country can meet the challenges of the future alone. Objections that we would lose our sovereignty by working more closely in Europe in the field of foreign policy and defence policy are not shared by my group. The collective defence effort at European level is now more necessary than ever because the collective sovereignty of our continent is at stake. What else needs to be done to bring us to that understanding? We must dare to look at what is to be seen and then dare to acknowledge what we see, however unpleasant the picture may be. We see an urgent need for a review of the European security strategy. This is the basis on which the defence policy of the European countries can then be aligned. Only in this way can we put an end to the current patchwork of resources. The crucial question is whether the EU wants to be a credible actor in the security field or not. In the past, soft power was perhaps the great strength of Europe, but in the unsafe world in which we now live soft power without hard power is no longer credible. The ruling of the former President of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt "speak softly but carry a big stick" applies more than ever. Our question to the Foreign Minister is therefore whether he shares this sense of urgency with us. If so, how and when is he going to urge the High Representative, Mrs Mogherini, to speed up the conception of a European security strategy, which provides a set of effective, credible but also efficient defence capabilities from which Europe can draw? However, we must be pragmatic and realistic. A fully integrated European military force is still a long way away; that is dreamy. NATO is and will remain the most important organisation for the foreseeable future to ensure the security of the European continent. However, there is a lot of space between everything or nothing. There is a whole spectrum of possibilities for effective European cooperation between these two extremes. Let us not forget that a stronger Europe also means a stronger NATO. Although NATO remains the cornerstone of our security policy, fundamental questions have recently arisen about both NATO's political and military capacity to ensure the security of the European continent in the current situation. There is a fear that a hybrid attack by Russia, for example on one of the Baltic States, will remain carefully below the threshold of Article 5, i.e. the Crimean scenario. Hybrid or masked warfare uses the phenomenon that the distinction between war and peace has faded. An important feature of this modus operandi is that there is close cooperation with non-state groups such as militias and resistance groups, but that this cooperation is categorically and consistently denied. This way of operating makes it difficult to determine whether a masked attack on one of the Baltic States, for example, will not only be recognized by all NATO Member States, but also recognised as an attack within the meaning of Article 5: an attack on one, is an attack on all. After all, it is difficult to prove the Russian action irrefutable and even more difficult to assess the underlying intentions. The concept of hybrid or masked warfare has surprised us strangely enough. After all, the concept was well known. This concept has been described in several authoritative studies and has been warned of this way of conflict resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u29	I am very committed to listening to Mr Van Kappen's story, but I still have a question on this point. You say that there are countries that may be involved in hybrid warfare and remain just below the radar of Article 5; we cannot prove that they are behind it. That raises the following question: what legitimizes then that you are going to act anyway? In your story, there is a suggestion that we should be able to do more as Europe or as NATO, but that is the weakness in it that you take a title without the burden of proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u30	You know exactly the dilemma of hybrid warfare. We do not yet have a concept of how to deal with this within NATO. It is not just the Russians who have developed this concept. Also in non-state conflicts we know with actors like IS, you see that the shadow area between war and peace is being used. What is it, anyway? That is one of the dilemmas we face. So far, we haven't really developed a good answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u31	It is good that Mr Van Kappen points out these new developments. May I ask him straight to the man how he sees the events of a year ago in Kiev? There an elected government and an elected president were deposed during a rebellion, although European governments had said in advance that this should not happen; an orderly transfer of power had to take place there. The Russians now say that the pot blames the kettle for seeing it black: you blame us for doing things that are not good in Crimea, but since when do Western governments support a coup in a country that is within our periphery? I understand that question. They say that the West is fighting in a strange way that we are not used to. Do you understand my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u32	I fully understand your question. This story is regularly heard from Moscow and from people who sympathize with it. It is therefore a difficult problem and not at all so crystal clear. The rebellion in Kiev was a popular uprising, but a popular uprising against an elected government. You can say that that government was elected under dubious circumstances with a major election fraud, but that way you keep going back and forth. It's a "murky pool" you're in. I personally stick to the commitments we made at the end of the Cold War, which agreed that we would recognise Europe's sovereign borders. The Russians also acknowledged it. Furthermore, Ukraine, the third nuclear power in the world, voluntarily had nuclear weapons handed over under the guarantee of Russia, the United States and the United Kingdom, in the Budapest Agreement, that these countries would guarantee Ukrainian sovereignty. In today's world, a lot of things are fading. There used to be a very clear distinction between war and peace. There was a declaration of war and an enemy with flags on his suit and he eventually signed a peace treaty. That's all a little over. With our conflicts, we are increasingly in the shadows between war and peace: what exactly is it? In particular, the masked warfare, which was worked out in 2013 by General Gerasimov, focuses on this. How do you deal with the shadow area between war and peace? It is undeniable that in the discourse about what happened in Kiev there are points that are not so beautiful; that is certainly so. I understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u33	Can I connect to that? I share Mr Van Kappen's view that, after the fall of the wall, we agreed on territorial integrity. We're gonna have to hold onto it, or we're not gonna have much left. At the same time, it is said from Moscow's perspective that agreements have also been made that we would not all go that way with the EU and with NATO. We can say that this is about the territorial sovereignty of the Member States, but it is said from Russia that we are now at their borders and Russia is not ours. Of course there is also a new way of dealing with each other. I am concerned that we are going to continue in this area and come up with new things that will ultimately make Europe more unsafe. If we do not develop a new way of dealing with each other, then I predict that the cold war will return. At least that's my fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u34	I would like to respond to this very briefly. It is not the case that the European Union or NATO were deliberately forced to the east. NATO and the EU cannot prevent the countries in transition from joining NATO or the EU because Mr Putin does not approve of it. Then you give up strategically completely. Any country that has jumped through all the hoops must be able to join NATO or the EU. I dispute that it has been a deliberate imposition from NATO or the EU to the east, but I know that it is experienced in Russia in this way. Another point is that the Russians are concerned about China, which, as an economically emerging world power in the east, is slowly devouring itself in the former Soviet space. The upper layer in the Central Asian countries, if you may call it that, learns English. The common people speak Russian, but the middle class learns Chinese. That's what they're worried about. Now they see in the west that the other great power, Europe, is in their eyes eating into the former Soviet space in the west. To top it all off, from a Russian perspective, Europe is also working on TTIP to make an alliance with the third major trading bloc in the world, America. The economic environment gives a feeling of enormous powerlessness, and they also see that their own economy does not produce anything at all. Yes, weapons; but otherwise it is a failing state in the economic field. All this, mixed with a piece of revisionism and a piece of traditional encircling fear that the Russians have always had a little bit, brings about this situation. I agree with you that we must remain in dialogue with them at all costs, but we should not be naive. We must be aware of what they are doing, and that is in particular the masked warfare to which we do not yet have a good answer. In the rest of my speech there is a bit of a repetition of what I have just said. The concept of hybrid or masked warfare has surprised us strangely enough. After all, the concept was well known. This concept has been described in several authoritative studies and has been warned of this way of conflict resolution. Even the VVD's modest 2008 study on security and defence has warned against this. In Russia, General Valery Gerasimov worked out this doctrine in detail in 2013. We are now faced with the result. Geopolitical changes and new hybrid forms of conflict resolution require not only a review of the NATO strategy, but also a revision of the rules of the game. An appropriate response has not yet been found by NATO. It is therefore high time that the Member States of NATO used their common sense to find the answer. It is a difficult task to design a counter-strategy if we want to respect our own laws and fundamental values, but it is possible. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence is therefore to urge this within the alliance and to make a concrete contribution as the Netherlands itself by launching a study on this subject in the short term. I would like an answer from both ministers. Apart from the challenge of dealing with masked warfare, NATO generally struggles with the execution of so-called Non-Article 5 operations in the twilight zone between war and peace. At the NATO summit in Wales, the Readiness Action Plan (RAP) was adopted in response to the current deteriorating security situation. Part of this is the creation of the Very High Readiness Joint Taskforce, or popularly said: the flash power. The Netherlands participates in this flash power together with Germany and Norway. It is striking that the government bases the use of the Dutch contribution on Article 97 of the Constitution (defense and protection of the interests of the Kingdom and its allies) and therefore Article 100 of the Constitution does not apply. All this in order to achieve the 48-hour response time in situations where (yet) it is not clear whether Article 5 can be declared applicable. In my group's view that is right, but the question to the Minister of Defence is whether the other countries contributing to the flash power are also able to make this happen. What about Germany, for example, where the Bundestag should not only be informed and consulted, but decides on a German contribution or participation in the flashpower?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u35	There is also Norway, which is not a member of the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u36	That's a member of NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u37	Yes, but there is a call for more impact and integration in defence at EU level. Wouldn't it be wiser to look for such a flash force within the EU itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u38	Yeah, what we're doing now is a little double-up. On the one hand, we are trying to get these EU Battlegroups off the ground. They have a very modest size, of 1,500 soldiers or something. We just talked about that. At the same time, you can see that NATO has the same problems with the NATO Rapid Reaction Force if there is no Article 5 situation. If it's article 5, it's simple, but if it's not article 5, you're actually bumping into the same problems with the NRF. They have tried to create a flash force within the NRF that can respond within 48 hours. The Netherlands, Germany and Norway are the first to take the lead in trying to do so. The Netherlands has as a measure to be able to respond within 48 hours, which is based on Article 97. Norway doesn't have that problem. We have made an overview of parliamentary codecision in Europe. We made a whole schedule out of that. Then you can see that in some countries there is very strong co-decision by parliament, as in Germany, where the parliament decides. In other countries, such as England and Belgium, Parliament is not at all involved. Norway is one of the countries where it is about the same as we do. There is a way around that, as we have found with Article 97. In parallel with each other, you will have a NATO flashpower, part of the NRF, as well as the efforts to get EU Battlegroups off the ground within Europe. The reason for this is that, in some situations and scenarios, it is better to do the job as a Europe without calling on our American allies immediately. The Americans are getting tired of having to jump in every time. In some scenarios, it is more effective, efficient and politically wise to leave the Americans out of it. That is what the EU Battlegroups are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u39	I understand this very well. I do not think we have a different opinion on this. I am not saying anything to the detriment of the Norwegians either, but it is interesting that we are able to achieve a flash force within NATO. This one has never been effective, but well, he's here. We also have EU Battlegroups. Mr Van Kappen rightly says, and I was pleased to say so, that we need to think a little more from collective sovereignty in order to get them up and running, if possible, more quickly, if that is really necessary. Then I think it's a little double-up to say that we do that within NATO with the Norwegians.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u40	Yes, I understand that, but NATO and the EU are different organisations. That flash power is within the NRF concept and within the NATO structure. The problem with the EU Battlegroups is, if we ever get them off the ground, and I hope that the modular story helps, that you still have a very limited military structure in the EU. That's how we wanted it. The problem is that you can only use that EU Battlegroup in the lowest part of the violence spectrum. If you put this place where the violence suddenly escalates, you don't have a strategic reserve, no other club that can pull it out of the shit, so you become part of the problem. One conclusion is that if we get those EU Battlegroups off the ground, you can only use them in scenarios where the prediction is that the level of violence is low. If you go over that low part of the violence spectrum, you can't do it with an EU-Battle Group, because we don't have a strategic reserve and no other club in Europe that can get them out of trouble if things go wrong. Mr. Chairman. My second question to the Minister of Defence is whether the article 97 described can also be applied in certain scenarios in our participation in the EU Battlegroups. What does all this mean for the Netherlands? It is clear that the current chaotic and rapidly deteriorating international security situation threatens our vital interests, as described in our national security strategy. After all, our collective territorial, economic and physical security is threatened, as is our political and social stability. The Foreign Minister has now issued an additional policy letter to the International Security Strategy of June 2013 entitled "Turbulent times in an unstable environment'. However, the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether it is not high time, in view of the blurring of the border between war and peace and between external and internal security, to combine our international and our national security strategies into a coherent strategy. In fact, the Minister of V and J should have been here too. Mr Franken also made a comment on this. After all, the Minister of V and J is the guardian of our National Security Strategy? I also wonder whether it is not time to conduct discussions between the three security ministers on a more structural basis in these turbulent times than is currently the case. Perhaps it is an idea to create a genuine National Security Council, chaired by the Prime Minister. I would like an answer to this question from the two security ministers who are here. Political, military, economic and financial power shifts from the West to the Indian and Pacific countries. However, the outcome of this process is not self-evident and surrounded by many uncertainties. It is clear that, in order to safeguard our vital interests, we must also extend beyond the familiar circle of traditional allies, in order to find and bind new strategic partners in these regions. At least that is the opinion of my group. Does the Foreign Minister agree with us? If so, which countries has he identified as strategic partners and to what extent has this played a role in the reorganisation of our highly thinned post network? By the way, I have to say that the VVD Group is concerned that we have not gone too far with the cuts in the postal network. We therefore welcome the additional EUR 5 million that the government has made available to strengthen the postal network where necessary. What will this money be spent on? Is that enough? I would like to hear an answer from the Foreign Minister to these questions. I would like to say a few words about development cooperation (OS) in the context of security. In addition to the humanitarian dimension, OS also has a clear security dimension, in the sense of stabilisation of fragile and failing states. However, there is a certain tension between the humanitarian dimension and the security dimension at OS. Are we focusing our efforts on the poorest people who need our help most, or are we focusing our efforts on those areas that are of geopolitical importance for our security? Or do we do both a little bit? In the absence of the Minister for Development Cooperation, I would like an answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to these questions. Last but not least, I come to our defence efforts. As has already been mentioned, Defence is not only confronted with a blurring of the distinction between war and peace, but also with the fact that through asymmetric warfare the distinction between internal and external security has virtually disappeared. After all, the answer to an action or operation in a foreign country does not need to be in the operating area, but may also come in the form of a terrorist attack in the Netherlands itself. Defence therefore needed to free up capacity to help maintain internal security. I don't go through the whole list of examples in this company. The role of Defence in guaranteeing internal security is both an additional challenge and an additional burden on the heavily shrunk defence apparatus. In the field of external security, Defense is faced with the disappearance of the traditional defined battle space. The current battle space is fluid and multidimensional; a clear front line no longer exists. The end state, the desired final situation, is often unclear and there is an increase in the fog of war. Battles are increasingly taking place in a twilight zone between war and peace and in a cloud of uncertainty. The traditional recognizable enemy is increasingly difficult to identify. There is now often diffuse and difficult to identify opponents: militias, rebels, resistance groups, etc. This is a policy debate and I therefore oppose the urge to flood the Minister of Defence with ideas on how to redesign the armed forces in order to deal with the threats of the future outlined earlier. I'm sure the minister and her staff won't need our help with that. I am therefore satisfied with the observation that Defence is faced with a broad spectrum of conflicts, ranging from the fight against crime, through unconventional forms of warfare, to large-scale conventional warfare. Therefore, both before and after 2010, a "multifaceted military force" was chosen, which thus has a wide range of capabilities. On the basis of the threat analysis, this is also the right choice. However, such a force can only be maintained with sound funding. The current budget is far below the financial levels calculated in the Explorations; it needs real money. The continued underfunding of Defense has already seriously affected the capacity to continue. We can still perform many different types of operations, but we can only sustain these operations for a very short time. After decades of cuts in Defence, the Netherlands spends about 1.1% of GDP on the military. This is not only far below the NATO 2% GNP standard, but we are also at the bottom of the list of European countries in this area. The average defence expenditure per country in Europe is 1.6% of GDP. In fact, this picture is still far too positive, because in the Netherlands a sum of EUR 1.2 billion in pensions and waiting fees is included in the Defence budget. On top of that, there is the fact that Defence is also being used for all kinds of generic discounts. That's gonna cost the defense another 200 million euros a year. Why are we doing this? Isn't this the way to present a flattering picture of our real effort in the field of defense? Is it not more transparent to present the Defence budget without involving pensions and waiting money? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of Defense to this question. In addition, the Department of Defence is subject to VAT. For Defence, with a single exception, the high VAT rate of 21% applies for the purchase of equipment. This does not contribute to transparency either. After all, Defence pays millions of euros in VAT back to the state treasury every year. In this context, we wonder whether the amounts in the budget for the purchase of large equipment, such as the F-35, the NH90 and the Boxer, are gross or net amounts. How much VAT do we pay on these projects? What part of the budget can be used specifically to maintain and improve the operational power of the armed forces? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of Defense to these questions. I understand that we must abide by the 1968 Sales Tax Act, which is based on European directives. Expenditure on defence is, however, made in the general interest. Is it not more equitable to apply the low VAT rate of 6% for the purchase of large equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u41	I understand these questions very well, given the search for structuralally more money for the Defense Department, for which there is a broad majority in both houses. However, you are now mentioning a number of things that can be done in each department. At Education, teachers' pension funds are also included in the budget. Back in the day, the police's pension funds were in the Home Office, now they're in the Department of Security and Justice. Do you want anything else for the Defense Department than for the other ministries? Or should we look at this across the board in order to understand what is actually available?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u42	I'm talking about defense right now. I would like us to have a better understanding of what is actually available to spend on the defence budget. In fact, this should apply to all public authorities. Then you have a transparent understanding of what is actually being spent to improve and maintain education or defence. I realize, however, that this is not possible, albeit grumpy. That brings me to the follow-up to my speech: I understand, albeit grumpy, that this does not seem possible for all kinds of bureaucratic reasons, but there are still possibilities to compensate VAT within the budget. There are examples of that, aren't there? I am thinking, for example, of Rijkswaterstaat. I'd like an answer from the Secretary of Defense to these questions. All in all, the Netherlands does not spend 1.1% of GDP on defence, but only 0.8%. At the recent NATO summit in Wales, it was also more or less agreed that NATO Member States would strive to comply with the 2% standard in the next ten years. I say it with a little care and care, because it is not quite clear to my group how hard these agreements actually are. Is it a commitment, a target or a pledge now? What exactly did we commit to? I'd like an answer from the Secretary of Defense to this question. A common excuse for our poor defence effort is that we need to look not only at the input, but above all at the output. It is true that the Dutch armed forces perform a lot with little resources, but this should not be used as an excuse to close their eyes to the fact that the cuts have seriously undermined and weakened the armed forces. Let us not forget that the military has been reduced from 100,000 soldiers to 40,000 in recent decades. The number of frigates has been reduced from 15 to 6. The number of fighter planes has been reduced from over 200 to 65. After the replacement of the F-16, we only have 37 fighter planes left. The number of infantry battalions, including marines, has fallen from 17 to 9. The number of tanks from 900 to 0. Number of armoured vehicles from 3000 to 700. Anyway, I'm gonna stop with this depressing list. My point is clear, I think. Another widely heard excuse is that we are only a small country and therefore a modest military force fits in with it. "Small land" then seems to refer to the area of our territory and not to the size of our economy or GDP. The Netherlands is one of the twenty richest countries in the world. If the area of the territory were to be the criterion for a country's defence effort, a country such as Israel would be entitled to a cloaked canoe and a service bike. Israel, on the other hand, has one of the strongest armed forces in the world. The key political question is how much of our prosperity we have left to defend our vital interests, which is measured in percentage of GDP. As a percentage of GDP, we are currently spending less on the Defense Department than in the time of the broken rifle. The EUR 100 million that is now being cut back on defence is a positive signal, but it is not more than that. We can hardly add to the exhausted warehouse stocks, and if this remains so, in the years to come there will still be substantial cuts in defence. We also have huge replacement projects ahead of us. At present, however, the average investment ratio is below the required standard of 20%. The Minister of Defence has indicated in previous debates in the Lower House that the 20% standard will be met again in 2018. Is the Minister really convinced of that? The VVD Group hopes that the Minister is right, but has serious doubts about the feasibility of this intention. Maybe the Minister can convince us of her right away. We have another question. Can the Secretary of Defense indicate what the investment ratio is at the moment for each armies? And can it indicate by armies when the 20% standard will be met? Back to the main lines. A stable and valued Defence budget is needed to continue to invest and innovate, in order to safeguard our vital interests. We need a multi-annual plan for a period of a number of years which will gradually establish a structural and substantial increase in the defence budget. The medium-term objective should be the average of defence expenditure of the European NATO countries. So that's 1.6% of GDP. If we want to talk about a renewed security strategy for Europe, then we will also have to be credible ourselves by making a contribution that is in relation to our capacity. It is important that the funding provided for in the plan is not affected during the period of the plan and that, as in the past, the planning is not undermined every time because it is decided in the interim to continue cutting back on defence. Defense must not depend on daily rates. There is no plan for such a yo-yo policy. After all, it is as if the goalposts are being moved every time during the race. We are curious to see what the Secretary of Defense thinks about this. I'm rounding up. Ministers present are confronted with the problem that their policy area is part of what is called "high politics." That is the area in politics that deals with the survival of the state. However, if there is no existential threat, politicians in democracies have a strong tendency to focus on low politics, i.e. the part of politics that deals with the well-being of the population. That is where the voices are, and that is where the political power lies. It is an understandable argument from an electoral point of view, but it is also a dangerous one. After all, reducing military capacity goes fast, but rebuilding military capacity takes a long time. That is why my group has called in previous debates for the so-called noregret principle to be applied. Unfortunately, this has not happened sufficiently. The first task of the government and politicians is to ensure the survival of the state. That is a central task of the government and we will therefore have to reserve some of our prosperity for it. Actually, that's not negotiable. However, such a position requires political courage, as it does not make most voters hot or cold. Our question to the ministers present is therefore whether they have the political courage to defend and promote this right but not very popular position both in the Council of Ministers and in the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u43	Now we're almost on political slippery ground. I understand what you're saying, but you're asking the rulers. They have entered into a coalition agreement with rules of the game. In fact, you should ask all the other parties in the coalition if they are willing together to give the rulers more space. That seems to me to be the first address. Then you will always have other groups in the opposition who may or may not encourage it. For I can think of the answer of the rulers, namely: if it is up to us, please more. But yes, you also know how it is: at that table in the Trêveszaal you will not get right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u44	Of course, you're a little right. I am also asking this question a little bit because I wonder how the ministers will react to it. I ask them to fight for this in the Council of Ministers. I also ask if they are prepared to pass that on to the public outside. I realise that different political parties have different views on this matter. But in my opinion, it is the primary responsibility of politicians, certainly the government, to ensure the survival of the state. In fact, you have to say to the people: this is not negotiable; some of our prosperity will have to be separated for that and you can talk to me about the rest. But that requires political courage, Mr Van Boxtel. I ask the ministers whether they are prepared to do it in the Council of Ministers, preferably hand in hand, and whether they are also willing to carry it out externally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u45	I would be happy to join Mr Van Boxtel in the high-level politics of Van Kappen. However, I would like to ask him whether he would also like to include in his speech the question of whether there could be a more efficient use of resources through increased European cooperation and a better division of tasks between various allies, before perhaps asking for some billions more. I think his sense of reality is sufficiently up to know that's not there right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u46	I thank Mr Schrijver for that question. I have actually said something about it in my speech, namely that it is high time we developed a genuine European security strategy, which sets out how we can achieve a credible and effective set of capabilities that Europe can use. If you want to talk about this, you will have to make a similar effort in the defence field to other European countries. That is the 1.6% of GDP that countries spend on defence on average. Otherwise, I don't think you have the right to speak. Another point is that there is already a huge amount of cooperation. With the Royal Army, I believe, no part of it is working under Dutch command anymore. Everything is integrated into the German Schnelle Kräfte and I know everything. The Navy is already fully associated with the Belgian Navy and has an intensive collaboration with the English. The Dutch Marine Corps is fully integrated with English within the framework of UK/NL Amphibious Force. I can go on like this for a while. There's just before the QRA, you know, those aircraft that are on standby to commit 24-hour interceptions in our airspace, and we're signing a law with the Belgians that's going to do this together for the entire territory of the Benelux. Much is already being done and much more is possible. But that does not relieve us of the obligation to make a contribution of our own that is proportionate to our capacity, if you want to participate in this whole European thing. At the heart of the matter is that we must not create a European military force that is not going to succeed, but that we can do a great deal to ensure that the armed forces are much better coordinated, and that we create within Europe a set of capacities that are credible and that we can actually have; also in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mr Van Kappen's considerations are very compelling. You can conclude that the safety of the Dutch state is at stake. I have put it more succinctly; he says it much more beautifully with a much more extensive knowledge about the background, and I have heard it in Mr Schrijver's speech. When I put the arguments together, it is very much necessary for action to be taken. Is it not a little too careful to say that I would ask the ministers to go to the Trêves room and ask for more money? The representative of the PvdA Group has already said that you know that this will not work. Well, then, of course, we're not getting anywhere. It's two-and-a-half. Or the Dutch state is really in danger; so something must be done. Or we keep talking, but we don't do anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u48	I am convinced that there must be money in the defence sector, and not just me, because I am speaking on behalf of my group. So we're convinced there's gonna be a lot more money to go to the DOD. Why? For everything I've said so far. Let me say again: we must have the courage to look at what is to be seen. Often we do not; we find it unpleasant and look away. Those days are over. My group is therefore convinced that more money is needed in the defence sector. The question is how much that is, you must negotiate with other political parties that form the government or who are in the Chamber. This must of course be balanced against other priorities in our state system. I told you, that's the difference between high and low politics. For low politicians, the rollator, care, education, you generally get the hands on each other. I understand all that, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u49	The rollator's out of the package, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u50	Oh, yeah, it's out of the package. I had to buy my own for my mother-in-law the other day.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u51	I had promised never to express my concern in this role, but I had to put this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u52	Could you get it through the chairman, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u53	I totally understand that part about the rollator. After all, I just bought one for my mother-in-law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u54	I don't need it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u55	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u56	That wasn't my intention at all. I am not going to change your speech if you say that we have found that we have reached about the bottom for defence. However, I would like to comment on your rather general call for a lot more defence alone. In the conclusion of your colleague, Mr Schrijver, I heard him say that a little more could be done on development cooperation. I hope that the coalition, in the Trêveszaal, will at least take the message with us in such a way that we will have a credible follow-up for the coming period, in which everyone is involved. The risk is that everyone is going to shop selectively again, that Mr Van Kappen is talking only about defence again, that the PvdA only wants development cooperation again and that a third wants to expand the embassy posts again. I prefer to do it on the basis of what you need in terms of content and not just more money. Especially, what does this new world require? What are the new types of warfare? Where do you want to be and where do you not want to be? Where can you work more efficiently with others so that you might create financial space to take a firmer position elsewhere in that, as far as I am concerned, EU security policy is growing stronger?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u57	I actually agree with Mr Van Boxtel. I'm trying to tell everyone that soft power without hard power isn't power. So we're all going to have to decide, because neither I nor the VVD decide that only, that there's more money to go to the Defense Department. I don't like that 2%, I really don't. I think it is most important that we arrive at a stable defence budget. In Denmark, the government and the opposition have made an agreement that for a period of five years the money they have left for defence will be determined and that they will not be able to obtain it during that period. This will finally allow planning rather than a football game, where the goalposts are constantly moved. I think that's the most important thing. As a medium-term objective, my group would like to see the 1.6% GNP retained for this purpose. That is the percentage that is the average pattern of defence expenditure of the European countries within NATO. Only then will you be able to participate fully. I was almost at the end of my speech, Mr President. I had asked whether both ministers would also like to make a commitment to our security policy in the Council of Ministers. The fact that there is now a clear and long-lasting existential threat makes this message even more urgent. I'm just gonna say this one more time: what else needs to be done to wake us up? The ancient Romans said it already "qui desiderat pacem, bellum pràeparat," or: those who long for peace prepared themselves for war. Unfortunately, no peace is possible without effective deterrents from any aggressors. It's never been any different. As a concluding remark, I should like to express my regret at the two Apache pilots who have paid the ultimate price of the military profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u58	Of course, and often with pleasure, I have listened to the extremely sharp strategic analyses made by Mr Van Kappen and to the clear VVD position he has put forward here. That's how we know him. I have a question about something I do not think I heard in his speech: the element of the consequences of the unsafe situation on the large refugee flows. Today and this week we cannot quite ignore the fact that his party has said something about this this weekend, which I am very curious to see whether this will be carried in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u59	That's an interesting one. The problem of the uncontrolled flow of refugees is enormous. Anyone who denies it looks away. If we haven't even seen the beginning of this huge amount of refugees, if we haven't even seen the start, it's going to get even worse in Europe, without proper agreements on this, it's risking political and social instability in the country. There will certainly be a counter-reaction. The problem raised by the VVD in the Lower House is a real problem. If I had the solution in my back pocket, I'd love to share her with everyone, but I don't have her. All I know is that if you wanted this, there's three things that matter. 1. You will first have to reach agreements with Europe. 2. You will have to talk to the UN as a Europe, to the UNHCR. This is my personal view, not my party's, because I have not been able to coordinate it with the group. 3. I've become more convinced that you should also sit down with the Arab League. You can say this is a chanceless conversation, yet I think we should have that conversation. We must somehow regulate this uncontrolled flow of refugees. If we don't, it's gonna happen to us, and it's always bad. I really think we should take this problem seriously. I really think that we should make this a top priority in Europe. This was raised by several European countries at the last meeting in Riga. The Italians and Spaniards said: it is not a problem of southern Europe at all, because most refugees go to Sweden and Germany. So it's a Swedish and German problem. I think it's all our problem. If we close our eyes to that, that is not a solution. In addition to Europe, the UN and the Arab League, you will also need to strengthen Frontex. You will have to check very carefully whether the rules we have applied so far are still in place in this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u60	If I hear Mr Van Kappen correctly, I do not hear the embrace of the high walls around fortress Europe, but rather an integrated approach that also focuses on prevention, on common European policies and on more humanitarian policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u61	I think what Mr Ganzevoort says is about right. However, I do not believe in looking away and shouting that it is all nonsense. It's not bullshit, because it's a big problem that we all have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u62	I very much appreciate the way in which Mr Van Kappen has answered Mr Ganzevoort's question. My conclusion is that it is not a party position that we heard last week, but just an idea from the House of Representatives. I believe that there is still a great deal to be discussed, even within any party, in order to see how we are going to address this whole issue further. I will come back to the plan put forward by the VVD Group of the House of Representatives last week. This was incomplete and has the atmosphere of an emergency plan. Indeed, the underlying problem is much bigger, much more serious and therefore much more difficult to solve than by suggesting that reception should now take place in the region and not in Europe. That's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u63	Of course, I do not want to lose all my colleagues in the House of Representatives. I think it is entirely right that they have raised this problem and that they have had the courage to do it this way. It gives rise to the necessary discussion, but I think it is right that they did it. Then how is this to be solved? Fortunately, I am in the First Chamber and not in the Second Chamber; we can look at it when they have fought out there and then we can say some sensible things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u64	At the request of the Secretary of Defense, a few minutes will now be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u65	Mr. Chairman. I would first like to thank you for the respectful way in which you remembered the Dutch victims in Mali. My compliments. The International Security Strategy. I'll start with two short quotes from this piece. The first is: "Peace and security are not self-evident." That's right, that's right. What we in the West and here in the Netherlands mean by peace and security and how we experience it is certainly not natural and certainly not irreversible. It is clear that we must not let anything or anyone take away our acquired freedoms, peace, stability, Western identity. This means that we must at all times remain vigilant, always be alert, always keep our eyes open for everything and anyone who wants to bring us back in time, because I come to the second quote from the security strategy... "The world has become more complex and unpredictable." That too is correct, at least in part. It could be said that the world has become more complex. Let me mention something: economic crises, partly thanks to a failing euro. Let me mention one more thing: Islamic State, jihadism, attacks, war. Yes, jihadism and attacks in Syria, in Iraq, but certainly in the West. Take the attacks in Brussels. Take the attacks in Paris. Even if it may surprise certain parties or individuals, the perpetrators of the attacks in Brussels and Paris were all returned jihad-goers, jihad-goers who travelled to Iraq, to Syria, where war was waged, where they committed the most terrible crimes and then returned to Europe with all the consequences. This way IS is getting closer and closer. In this respect, is the world, and in particular the dangers of today's world, so unpredictable? Not quite, because we know what IS is aiming for, we know what IS wants. That's conquering the world. IS wants to make the whole world a great Islamic state. Unfortunately, Europe too is one of them. IS intends, and perhaps by now, to send jihadists disguised as refugees to Europe. And then what? Then what's the plan? What happens once they're inside? What's the point? Violence, war and conquest, conquest through the sword. And now a quote, applicable to IS. So it's not my words. "... then kill the enjoyers" "or the non-Muslims, the unbelievers, "where you find them and seize them and hinder them..." Even though it may surprise certain parties or individuals, IS obviously did not come up with this on its own. It is the sword verse from the Qur'an: Sura 9, verse 5. The fact that such a book has a sword verse at all must at least make people think. Once again, in this context, I ask the question: is the world, are the dangers of today in particular to our world so unpredictable? Not entirely. IS, and so Islam, wants to overthrow our Western civilization. That's nothing new, by the way. What is also nothing new is that certain parties are attacking it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u66	I'm not hitting. I ask a question, at least if Mr Kops appreciates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u67	That depends on the question, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u68	In a good dialogue, every question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u69	Whether Mr Kox will be given the floor is up to me, Mr Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u70	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u71	Mr Kops brings out another quote from the Qur'an. If you've read that book, you can sort of predict the rest of history, that's his idea. He's talking about victims being made. Does Mr Kops have any idea where ISIS is currently causing the most casualties?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u72	If it's a quiz, I want to know what the prices are first. Mr Kox probably knows the answer, so let him tell us. What are you trying to say? What are you trying to tell me?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u73	Through the chairman, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u74	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u75	If Mr. Kops suggests they're coming here and they're going to make casualties here, what sure...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u76	It's already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u77	But what kills most people because of IS?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u78	Probably in Iraq and Syria. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u79	Does Mr. Kops have any idea what kind of religion these people adhere to?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u80	Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u81	Shall we say, then, that ISIS is the main problem in the first instance for people who adhere to Islam and who are Muslims and who are killed there by thousands, by tens of thousands? Shall we at least be respectful of those victims? They are currently the ones who should have our protection. Mr Kops is ignoring that. He merely points out that it could still be a problem for us. Does the PVV group have any respect for all those people who are now dying by IS in Iraq and Syria? Or is Mr Kops conveniently ignoring that because they are Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u82	I distance myself from these words. I find it reprehensible that Mr Kox is now making a political statement about the backs of all the victims, indeed in Iraq and Syria, but also in Brussels and Paris. I regret every victim that falls, but the victims we are talking about today fall in the name of Islam, in the name of Allah. What happened in Paris again? We're talking about returning jidhadgoers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u83	Now Mr Kops is going back to Paris. I am concerned that the people who are victims of that terrorist movement are Muslims. Mr Kops cites a quote from the Qur'an to say: yes, that's the way it is with those kind of guests. However, I say that all those supporters of Islam who are currently experiencing the violence of IS in Iraq and Syria should not be so offended by the statement: it is in your book, that is how things go. Mr Kops must respect all those people who pay massively for the terrorist violence of IS. If we could agree on one thing, it is that terrorist violence is unacceptable and must be combated. It is not appropriate to make the bridge that these people, because it is in the Qur'an, have something to do with themselves. The victims of ISIS are mainly Muslims. Mr Kops should respect that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u84	Apparently, Mr Kops has at least one point of agreement with the vision of IS, namely that only a fundamentalist interpretation of Islam is possible. That is what He has been granted; there are more people who think so. It is historically and theologically quite absurd, but one can find everything. It is now about the demand for the strategy. That terrorism is a major problem and that violent states are a major problem, I think we agree with that and we do indeed have to deal with it. Now there is something very interesting about it in the policy letter, namely: organisations like IS and Al-Qaeda benefit from polarisation and the stimulation of an ideological battle between Muslims and the West. My question is: what does Mr Kops do other than fuel an ideological battle between Muslims and the West?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u85	I certainly respect that. However, Mr Kox ignores the real problem. That's right, there's a lot of casualties. ISIS is killing a lot of people. That's right, but how does that happen? This is done by Muslims, with the Koran in their hands, acting in the name of Allah, in the name of Islam. And that is a very big problem. It may be very childishly said, but if there's a problem, and you want to solve it, you have to look at the cause of the problem first. I think it is very naive of Mr Kox not to mention specifically the cause of the problem. That is Islam. What does IS stand for other than for Islamic State?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u86	I'm not doing that at all. First of all, I want to say this. There are indeed people who claim that there are multiple interpretations of Islam possible. That's not true. Islam is Islam and it is an insult to say that there is a moderate Islam. Those are not my words; it is Erdogan who said that. In addition, I am not having a theological discussion here, but a social discussion. I see that Islam is a major problem throughout the world and also in our society. What I'm doing, what the PVV is doing, is calling problems fair and square. That's it. Apparently, other parties can learn from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u87	I'd like to make the problem of Islam haters fair and square, but that's not what this is about. It was about the strategic question, the social question: what does Mr Kops do other than polarize and fuel an ideological battle between Muslims and the West? In doing so, he plays organisations like IS in the cards, just as it is stated in the policy letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u88	It may well be in the policy letter, but the answer is: no, I don't. I name problems here; it's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u89	I keep trying anyway, because I think Our Lord has given everyone a little sense, so there must be some appealing to that. If a terrorist movement is active in Africa called the Lord's Army and invokes the Bible, does that mean that all Catholics, all Christians, are in the same boat? Or do you think that in Christianity there is a moderate, radical and fundamentalist form, but not in Islam? Again, I go back to the question I asked: why do you condemn the people who are victims of terrorism...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u90	I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u91	... by saying: they simply adhere to a belief that is only possible in one version? When it comes to other religions, you can see that nuance. Or do you also think that the Lord's Army stands for Christianity and that with it all Christians are in the same boat? You can think about it again. If you call this up, it sounds like something, but if you think about it... it doesn't make any sense, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u92	Firstly, I am not talking about Muslims, but about Islam. Again, I regret every victim that falls. Maybe it should make Mr. Kox think about it. Indeed, many Muslims are also victims of Islamic violence. That's right. He should take care of those people. He should also acknowledge for those people that Islam is a major problem. That it's an ideology of hatred and terror. He should at least acknowledge that for those victims, too. May I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u94	So before all the interruptions, I said that IS and Islam want to overthrow our Western civilization. In this context, the International Security Strategy is unfortunately not very encouraging. Complexity, uncertainty, unpredictability run like a thread through the piece. The strategy is far from concrete and, unfortunately, does not provide much guidance. It is also regrettable that the document does not mention the cause of many conflicts and unstable regions in the world. Actually, I was just talking about it. This is of course a cause, whether one dares to face it or not; Mr Kox seems not to be so often the Islamic ideology. Islamic violence today is such a big problem for our peace and security, whether they like it or not. It is sad that this is not covered in the security strategy. Instead, that strategy states that there is a clear relationship between scarcity of land, water, food and raw materials and the emergence of conflicts. Unilateral economic dependence on raw materials and internal struggle for access to these resources make countries vulnerable to political instability. Political instability can also be caused by economic inequality, lack of economic opportunities and organised crime, which undermines state authority. Okay. Directly afterwards, the strategy states: conflict areas and weak states are a breeding ground for terrorism and extremism. I'd like to turn this around. Terrorism and extremism, more precisely 'Islamic terrorism and extremism', i.e. Islam, are precisely so often the cause of conflicts and instability in the world. It is precisely this Islamic terrorism, i.e. Islam, whose terror is an essential element, that is such a great threat. But no, the Foreign Minister, at the time Mr Timmermans, said that Islamic fundamentalism, in the sense of Islamism, or political Islam, should not pose a threat to the West. I have thought a long time about this statement, but I still find it incomprehensible. I think it's naive, too. I'm sorry, but I think it's as naive as someone still claims today that the earth would be flat. Or should I see it differently? Or do the ministers who are here see that differently? I'd like to get a reaction to this. One of the six policy priorities in the International Security Strategy is: focus on unstable regions close to Europe. The document states that Europe itself must take more responsibility and, above all, invest more in stability in its own environment, especially in the semi-circle of the EU, such as North Africa, the Sahel, the Horn of Africa, the Caucasus and the Middle East. I quote: by contributing to democratisation and thereby stabilising our southern neighbouring region, we reduce the risk of illegal migration and reduce the terrorist threat. I would like to give an explanation to the Ministers on this point, because how do they intend to achieve this in practice? The so-called Arab Spring was also intended to bring peace, democracy and stability. In practice, very little has come of this. In fact, that so-called Arab Spring has actually turned out to be an icy Arab winter. How do the Ministers intend to change this in concrete terms? The next policy focus in the International Security Strategy is prevention. Prevention is better than cure, so it says. That's right. It's a fine proverb, but often reality is different. Reality is often not grasped in a simplistic proverb. That's what I'm talking about. I quote from the strategy once again. The key to preventing radicalisation and terrorism lies largely abroad. The Netherlands will continue to contribute to the building up of funds and knowledge for counter-terrorism in high-risk countries. The Netherlands wants to promote initiatives to help prevent violent radicalisation. The Dutch focus is on North Africa and the Sahel, the Horn of Africa and the Middle East. In this context, my first question to the Ministers is how I should see this in concrete terms. My second question is how seriously I should take this. How do we wish to combat radicalisation in distant countries, i.e. in North Africa, the Sahel, the Caucasus and so on, while the Netherlands is apparently not even able to combat radicalisation in its own country? I'd like to get a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u95	Mr Kops has just had a lot of reasoning about cause and such, but I would like to leave it for a moment. However, does he agree with me that the fragility of fragile states, the lack of economic conditions and poverty are a breeding ground for violence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u96	I can certainly imagine that, but Mr Ganzevoort could also ask himself why this is happening and what is ultimately behind it. That is always Islam in those conflict areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u97	Mr Kops has a very limited picture of how this world works. In a number of countries Islam plays a role in culture and in a number of countries it does not. But that's not the point. Even if that were the case, the question is whether poverty, economic vulnerability and fragility, lack of human rights and a weak rule of law are risk factors. He said that this is indeed the case. But if that is the case, does Mr Kops agree with me that the prevention of this is to the benefit of strong diplomacy and an expansion of development cooperation in order to enable a strong development of the economy in those countries? This will make it possible for the citizens of these countries to be given more space and this breeding ground will be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u98	It would be fantastic if things were to improve in those countries as well. Absolutely! Mr Ganzevoort is obviously very concerned about this. Of course, that is fine, but I am primarily concerned with the Netherlands and the safety of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u99	But if Mr Kops is concerned about the safety of the Netherlands, why is he so concerned about what happens in all kinds of other countries other than that it can apparently have a spillover effect in this direction? And if that is the case, does he want to take responsibility for focusing more on development cooperation and diplomacy to help solve the risks he apparently sees? Or is it just the talk for the stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u100	What I do not want in any case, probably unlike Mr Ganzevoort, is that problems are being imported. I am primarily concerned with the safety of the Netherlands. Problems such as jihadism and Islamic violence must be kept out of the door in the first place. Disarming and arms control are also policy priorities. That sounds sensible, of course. However, I find it a bit strange, because the Netherlands supplies weapons to foreign countries, and in particular you already recommend it to Islamic countries. In this context, I quote from the International Security Strategy. "It is in the interests of both the international legal order and the Dutch security interest to ensure that when military goods or technologies are exported they do not contribute to regional or internal conflicts... The Netherlands also considers that a proper balance should be made between the freest possible trade on the one hand and the possible abuse of these weapons on the other." This is where the shoe wrings. After all, it is mainly in Islamic countries where these weapons fall into the wrong hands, including those from our country. Modern weapons technology falls into the hands of people who, unfortunately, still act out of an ideology of hatred and terror that is certainly directed towards and against the West. I therefore ask the Ministers how to ensure, as the strategy puts it, that the arms exported are not abused. How do we want to prevent the weapons we have carried out from being used against us too? In any case, my group leaves no doubt about it: above all, do not supply arms to Islamic countries. I come to the conclusion of my speech. As I said, peace and security are not self-evident, so we must be careful of our achievements, of our peace and security and of our Western identity. The protection of what we consider important in the West begins with recognition of the dangers to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u101	I would like to ask Mr Kops a very different question. Everyone will agree with their closing words. He talks about safeguarding our Western values and our democracy. I am not going to repeat the debate that colleagues Kox and Ganzevoort have had around Islam, but I do not understand why the PVV is turning against everything that Europe means as an institution. I really don't understand any of that. If Europe has now brought one thing, it has been peace and security for 70 years, at least in the western part of this continent. I would like a response from Mr Kops when we talk about security policy. He's full of that, but he's against everything that's in front of Europe. I am talking not only about the euro, but also about the fact that he demands a note in this Chamber for every legislative proposal on Europe, while Europe is the best ticket for security on this continent.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u102	I doubt that. It is about the safety of the Netherlands. One of the major problems is that the borders are not closed or cannot be closed. The question is why they cannot be closed when, for example, jihadists want to come back from Iraq and Syria. This is thanks to Europe, thanks to the EU. So why Europe? Europe is an obstacle in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u103	I was afraid of it. I am glad that the supporters of Mr Kops have once again heard clearly that the PVV Netherlands prefers to see as an island that can be locked up, where we are going to drown ourselves in an autarctic situation, so we are going to return to the land of the windmills and the clogs and hide us all behind the dikes. That's the moral of this story.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u104	It is well described, but it is, of course, incorrect. Mr Van Boxtel can say it all nicely, but I am not speaking for him here; I am speaking for the citizens and for the PVV voters. They know damn well what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u105	Mr. Chairman. After Mr Kops' somewhat simplistic world view, it might be good to go back to the policy letter, which contains very sensible things about international security. We live in a world that has become considerably more unsafe in a number of ways, in which we not only experience threats but also have to and want to take responsibility. The downfall of the MH17 has made the insecurity felt and the death of two of our soldiers shows that that responsibility can also bring a high price. So today we cannot talk lightly about the complex questions about our international security. We must not only guard against light talk; we must also guard against simple one-liners and alarmist talk, who may be doing well in an election debate and perhaps even hitting the PVV voters well, but which do not make the world safer. The polarizing statements about the Islamic part of this world and also of our own people are part of that evil language. This does not increase security, but increases the contradictions and the risk of radicalisation. Also, the ruling of the Prime Minister or the leader of the VVD, sometimes the role is somewhat unclear that jihadists can be better killed, is one in the series simple, one-sided, suggestive and harmful. Or, I already asked Mr Van Kappen, in my view the unholy plan of the VVD across the street to stop all refugees at the gate of Europe, as if there were no Refugee Treaty, as if it had taken away the cause, as if not most refugees had long been taken care of in their own region and as if stopping refugees would change the threat of terror. That also goes with it. I'd say stupid and dangerous, perhaps meant to stir up the bad marriage of a coalition. But to be honest, the issue is too important for me. The obligatory call for more money for defense is one of those. Sure, we need to talk about the deployment of our armed forces, and we need to talk about the role that we want to play with them on the world stage. In this context, the cost of cooperation within Europe must also be taken into account. But investing in violence is not the solution to the crisis in the world. That is why, as far as we are concerned, it is easy and opportunistic to use the current insecurity to only plead for more money for defence. We need to have that conversation much more fundamental. The previous contribution by Mr Van Kappen has given good impetus to this. It is not my ambition today to repeat the analysis contained in the policy letter, which in turn is the processing of a lot of solid and structural research. Much more important for today's debate is the question of what this analysis means for the political-strategic position of the Netherlands and the direction in which the government follows. Then, in addition to appreciation, the analysis raises a number of important conversational questions. I begin with the observation that the international threat of violence has become more complex and elusive today. It has already been mentioned: less violence between states and more risk of transnational terrorist groups such as IS and its disruptive effects on vulnerable and fragile states. When it comes to interstate threats, as with Russia, hybrid rather than direct. A classic threat of war with east-west connotations has replaced non-transparent support for separatists, quasi-legitimate self-determination, annexation and propaganda. This changed threat of violence means, on the one hand, a return to power politics and thinking in spheres of influence that we thought we would be done with after the Cold War. On the other hand, it also means a decline in the role of the nation state and the discussion on how sovereignty is organised. It was already under considerable pressure in our globalising world, because the major geopolitical and economic issues are at a different level than that of the single nation state, such as the Netherlands. Only in larger European contexts can we deal with the threats. My first question to the government is therefore whether it will also turn this strategic insight that is reflected in this whole policy letter into concrete actions towards greater unity in European defence and security policy. What perspective does she have in mind? How does the government see the possibility of taking further steps towards a much more effective and efficient European military force? I am aware that there are all kinds of obstacles and restrictions there and that it is not easy, but the question is to what extent and in what way the Minister of Defence is working towards that perspective. How does she deal with the inhibiting forces, including in our own country, who prefer to focus on isolationism and hide behind the dikes? Does the government dare to be more explicit about a clear choice of joint responsibility and greater complementarity? My second question concerns the response to transnational terrorism. We also find in the policy letter admirable insights on this, for example that more is needed than military fighting against IS. For example, it says that organisations such as ISIS and Al-Qaeda benefit from polarisation and the emergence of an ideological battle between Muslims and the West. What does that mean, according to the government, for the way in which the debate on Islam is conducted in the Netherlands? Does the government agree with my group that there should be every room for religious criticism and freedom of expression, but that we seem to be slipping more and more towards polarisation and that unbridled Islam hatred is becoming salonfähiger? What responsibility does the government see for itself to reduce this polarisation, including in our own society? How does the government intend to prevent an increasingly Muslim-friendly society from becoming the breeding ground for radicalisation? How does the government prevent itself from being solely aware of the risks of radicalisation and how can it commit itself to greater cooperation with moderate and tolerant forces? My third question concerns in particular the massive violence in Syria, Iraq, Libya and Nigeria and its impact on neighbouring countries and the enormous flow of refugees as a result. Millions of people are on the run, survive in inhuman conditions and end up in the hands of smugglers, because of the thin hope of a safe life. The government focuses on support and reception in its own region, we hear more often and we also read in this policy letter. But then my question to the government is how many refugees can cope with their own regions. What are the consequences of this massive flow of refugees for vulnerable countries such as Lebanon and Jordan? What risks does the government see for disruption and destabilization of these countries? Is it justified, in this context, to be so firmly committed to Fortress Europe, to lock down the external borders and to wait for thousands to drown again in the Mediterranean Sea or to die in the face of further blazing violence? Is this time not precisely asking for a much more generous and effective asylum policy, precisely because of security, both there and here in our own country? In this context, however, I would also like to ask the government to explain its 3D approach in more detail. We read fine words about this in the policy letter, but concrete policies and investments are not so visible. Does the government share the view that the analysis of the policy letter should lead to an intensification of efforts to prevent, support fragile states, development aid and diplomacy? What plans does the government have to implement this intensification? How does this translate into budgets for diplomacy and development aid? What is the state of the government's plans to at least return to the OECD standard of 0.7% GDP for development cooperation, as this Chamber requested in December 2012 through the adoption of the Kox c.s. motion.? That brings me to another field of questions, because in the field of international security everything is moving together. The policy letter also rightly writes about security risks in the fields of raw materials, food, water and energy. Scarce, unjust distribution and power-political influence on trade in these goods cause increasing instability. This raises the question of whether the government is radical enough to opt for other solutions. On the energy issue, the policy letter states that we must look out for Russia's excessive dependence and that we must promote exports from the Middle East and North Africa. But my group does not follow that line of reasoning very well. Of course, we must reduce the dependence on Russian gas. But then Saudi oil wouldn't be the answer, would it? The policy letter also recognises that climate change is a source of insecurity. But why does the government not draw the much more fundamental conclusion that we need to switch much faster and more large-scale to renewable energy sources, also for geopolitical reasons? Why does the policy letter say that countries in North Africa should change their energy policy, but not that we should? What is the impact of the security debate on this government's energy policy, and what can we see in concrete terms? Similar questions arise in the field of food and international trade. I am now focusing on the negotiations on TTIP. The policy letter writes: "In this light, a successful conclusion to the negotiations on Transatlantic Trade & Investments Partnership is of great importance. TTIP can boost the established WTO negotiations and lay the foundations for new world-wide trade rules and standards." Can the government respond to the major doubts about the expected positive impact on the European economy and on the high risks to many vulnerable economies? How does the government view the recent report of the industry organisation Partos on policy coherence, which shows, among other things, that trade agreements can lead to the destruction of local businesses in vulnerable economies? Why does the government seem to be so naive about the consequences of Investor-State Dispute Settlement (ISDS) when it actually gives multinationals free rein to national governments? I'd like a little more explanation. Finally, I have a question about the more immaterial side of the story. On paper we see a lot of attention for the position of women and sexual, religious and cultural minorities. Specific issues include the protection of women from sexual violence in conflict situations and the promotion of the role of women in political and reconciliation processes. This important role is becoming increasingly important. It is striking that the regimes that present the greatest security risks today have the most problematic relationship with the rights of women and minorities. The way in which in Russia the position of homosexuals is increasingly under pressure and the association of IS with women and sexual and religious minorities call for more than fine words. But what does that mean in concrete terms? What is the government's commitment in this area and what positive effects has it achieved? How does it work with NGOs, which can often reach vulnerable groups more effectively? How can she increase her commitment and turn the Netherlands into a guide country in 2015? In my group's view, the starting point for our International Security Strategy should be that we have only one world, and that is why we are linked to skin and hair with that whole world. Our fate is linked with every fiber of our existence with the fate of others: with refugees in the Mediterranean Sea, with women in Boko Haram area, with people oppressed by their faith and ethnicity in the area where ISIS rules, with gays and lesbians in Russia, but also with young people blinded by their desire for an ideal world traveling towards a violent caliphate, including separatists in Eastern Ukraine and also with rulers in the Kremlin. There is simply only one world and with that we have it to grab. That is why our security strategy cannot consist of hiding behind the dikes, not building walls around Fortress Europe or resolving conflicts with violence. Even if something like this is inevitable, it can never be at the heart of our security strategy. Real security is not without peace and freedom. They cannot exist without justice and lasting association with the earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u106	Madam President. Security is not a matter of course, as the government wrote to us in the summer of 2013 in its then International Security Strategy with the beautiful title Safe World, safe Netherlands. A year and a half later, she is sending us a policy letter updating the International Security Strategy. This time the title is more disturbing: Turbulent times in an unstable environment. That concern is understandable when we look at the world's unrest. Today, as the First Chamber, we have the opportunity to talk to the government about our security strategy. My group very much appreciates that. Because safety is not self-evident, there are no self-evident analyses and self-evident answers. It is therefore appropriate to exchange views on this issue today and to continue this exchange of views in the future. In the summer of 2013, the government stated that there is a direct relationship between the changing international environment and Dutch security. In this context, the government identified three strategic interests in its International Security Strategy: the defence of the territory and of the alliance territory, a well-functioning international legal order and economic security. Although the overall framework of strategic interests has not changed, anyone who puts the security strategy of summer 2013 alongside its adaptation in the winter of 2014 will quickly see the differences in accentuation of developments. In 2013 Russia was mentioned as a country with which to cooperate in order to strengthen strategic stability and to achieve improved transparency and further reduction of nuclear arsenals, Russia returned as a strategic opponent in the last update of 2014. Where the Arab Spring was still discussed in 2013, the 2014 version deals with the advance of what is called the Islamic State and the threat that the conflict in Syria and Iraq has its impact on our lives here. How is it that we apparently did not foresee these developments in the summer of 2013? Have we been dealing with sudden developments or have we just not looked closely enough? Europe and the international community have been surprised by the current crisis, writes the government at the end of 2014. I have an open question to the government: how could that happen, how could it happen that the world is so surprised by things that happen? Is it not obvious, then, that our system of international diplomacy does not function as it should? In the 2013 government vision, we read good news. The number of conflicts worldwide had been halved over the past two decades, democracy had been established in several countries and the prosperity of the world's population had doubled compared to 20 years ago. How different is the picture presented one and a half years later: destabilization on the southern flanks of Europe, profound developments on the eastern borders of the European Union and NATO, a greater ring of instability around Europe through disruptive interference by Russia in neighbouring Ukraine, an increase in conflicts and unrest in the Middle East, North Africa and parts of Sub-Sahara and West Africa, especially in Syria, Iraq and Libya. Respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty is no longer a matter of fact, writes the government in its update. The Netherlands was sucked into this crisis through the downed flight MH17 in July last year. What seemed like a foreign conflict came close at once, so we read in the update. As I have said, I have the impression that we all fail to understand what is going on in the world and how late the conflicts can lead to confrontations. I also have the impression that we may try too much from our own perspective and too little from the perspective of others to understand the world. What can we do about it? If we are unable to analyse what is going on, it is difficult to prepare for what is going on. During the last General Reviews with the Government, I devoted a considerable part of my input to international developments because I think they were worrying enough. In Ukraine, last spring, a population uprising against a corrupt president led to an unconstitutional coup d'état. Russia then told the people of the East that almost the entire government in Kiev was neo-Nazis, while the European Union and the United States were closing their eyes to that right-wing extremistism, which was indeed present. Russia and the European Union offered almost bankrupt and bizarrely corrupt Ukraine a resounding economic alliance, but on the condition of everything or nothing. America suggested NATO membership for the country, where the Russian Black Sea fleet has its home. Russia then annexed Crimea and stirred up the unrest in the east. Over and over again, it rained sanctions. EU and America continued to support the government in Kiev, even when its army began bombing cities in the east of the country. Russia sent illegal aid to insurgents. The Americans brought military advisors to Kiev. The Netherlands decided to join in with counterproductive sanctions and more money for Defence in my opinion. We thought and felt that this was unwise. Last year, we proposed that our country should step up its efforts to develop the rule of law in Ukraine and to maintain the ceasefire of Minsk I, which was then established.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u107	Penalties are usually imposed in response to unlawful acts of the target state. In this context, I would like to ask you how you assess the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation. Do you think that's an unlawful step from Russia?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u108	That is a flagrant violation of international law, yes. But when I said that in Moscow to the President of Parliament, Naryshkin, he said: I refuse to acknowledge that, but even if I did, how are you going to tell me that Crimea is going back to Ukraine? That's a problem. I am convinced that the vast majority of the population of Crimea is at peace with this new situation. I don't know if that's gonna take long. It costs Russia a divinity to raise Crimea a little bit. That could be different in a while. But it is a dilemma that we are dealing with. I have always been clear that annexing Crimea is a flagrant violation of international law. The Russian arguments that the referendum showed that the vast majority were in favour and that Crimea used to belong to Russia are true, but it does not mean that we agreed after the fall of the Wall that we should respect the territorial integrity of countries. The big question is, I say to Mr Schrijver, what needs to be done now that that has happened. Crimea is of course not the first step and Donbas will not be the last step. We also have Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Nagorno-Karabakh and Transnistria. We've gotten all those black holes in the underbelly of the former Soviet Union. It is all matters that we condemn, but by condemning them, the old situation does not recover. In my opinion, it would be a task of the international community, Russia first and the former Soviet republics, but also the rest of the world, to see what we are about to do. The exercise of sanctions only makes sense if they are effective. You shouldn't say: they deserve sanctions or they don't. No, sanctions must be effective. If they are not effective or counterproductive, they are in the way of a solution. That is why I am opposed to these sanctions and not because the Russians have done something that is not that bad. They have done something that is absolutely not easy and they realise that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u109	I cannot fail to ask the follow-up question. Suppose you're very critical and say those sanctions haven't helped or haven't helped enough so far. There's nothing else. Then the aftertaste would be that Russia, whether or not in hidden cooperation with militias and separatists, simply continues to fill those black holes unbridled. We look at it and say, "God, that's something." But we do nothing about sanctioning and enforcement. What would your strategy be for the Russians to show that we think this is illegal and that it cannot and should not be? We're not gonna apply sanctions and just stay in conversation? I'm just gonna say this to you for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u110	Staying in conversation with the Russians isn't easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u111	Well, it was fun at the Olympics. But I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u112	I am also seriously listening to what Mr Van Boxtel says. I think we should return to the situation of 21 February 2014 as much as possible. At that time we had reached an agreement in which Russia had agreed something with the then-government of Ukraine, the opposition of Ukraine, also the extra-parliamentary opposition of Ukraine and the European Union, at least Poland, France and Germany. You can't reverse anything in history. The Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union is still under discussion. In the meantime, the Russians have a lot to say about this. They have tabled many amendments to that association agreement, which has also been postponed. President Yanukovych had agreed earlier on the introduction of the association agreement than has now been adopted. We need to find a way to achieve something there so that Russia can save its face. This is often important in international politics. As a result, Russia will no longer interfere with what is happening in Eastern Ukraine. We must not forget that what is happening there is not the most profitable thing for Russia. It costs a lot of money and it mainly costs international image. That is where the solution has to be found. I spoke to Russian authorities about this. I spoke with President Poroshenko on behalf of the Council of Europe the other day. He also tells you that the solution must be about there. The question is, who's gonna do it? In this situation, the OSCE could have a role to play. At the moment when the whole world said that Ukraine did not end up with a truce, it did. Sometimes international diplomacy can also ensure that something goes in the right direction. Solving the problem remains hugely difficult, but politicians can't say: it's hugely difficult so we don't do it. The attitude "let the rest of the world go ahead but as long as we are safe in the Netherlands" is, of course, bullshit. That's not what I'm here for. If the sanctions had been productive, they would have been, but I don't see that happening. I think we should look for something else right now. Let there be no misunderstanding: what Russia has done to Crimea is a flagrant violation of international law. It has caused the problems to a large extent. I think I have said enough about the conflict between Ukraine and Russia. The international security strategy states that no long-term conflict has had such a regional and even global impact as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. According to the government, the absence of a comprehensive peace agreement would have an impact on internal relations in many political countries. The government wrote that in 2013. In the meantime, we have had the Gaza war, in which more than 2,500 people, mainly citizens, have lost their lives. The Gaza Strip is once again in ruins. We are also dealing with a re-elected Israeli Prime Minister, who says that the two-state solution is gone. Instead of taking back on what the government has said so far about the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, I agree with the questions that others have also asked the government. Is there now sufficient change so that the Netherlands has to adjust its position? Again, we must do what is productive and not what we think is good or bad. There is not much that can be achieved in this situation. Now there is a chance that a two-state solution will be achieved through a resumption of the peace talks. The other option is for the international community to do what Mr Schrijver says, namely to confirm that this is the situation. Maybe that'll help. I'm afraid to give any guarantees. I do not know anyone in Palestine or Israel who dares to give a guarantee. Certainly, if we can believe President Obama on this point, there is nothing to be expected from the Israeli Government in the next four years without external pressure. How does the government feel about President Obama's very clear statement that, as long as Netanyahu rules Israel, a two-state solution is not feasible? I also ask the government whether, in addition to recognising the State of Palestine, it also supports Palestine in its efforts to participate in international treaties. Last year in the General Reviews, I said that the Middle East had become one great war zone. I also said at the time that I realized that the atrocities of terrorists in Iraq and Syria were crying out for a response. In Syria, these atrocities were already going on, with 200,000 dead and many more wounded, with cities bombed to ruin and with millions of refugees. The year before, I was in the largest refugee camp at the time on the border with Jordan. The horror stories I heard there in 2013 were not inferior to the stories you could hear from people who had been dealing with the IS movement in 2014. Comments have been made on refugees and reception in the region. Refugees from Syria are being received in the region. In Lebanon, Turkey and Jordan, many people find and receive shelter at the moment. I agree with Mr Van Kappen: looking away from the problem of refugees would be bad, but ignoring the fact that countries which are undoubtedly worse off than we are taking on a much and much larger part of the refugee problem would also be very bad. I asked the government last autumn, and I ask that again, whether it is strange that after years of being inactive in Syria and Iraq, we want to show so much force and that we have been bombing for six months now. In the General Reviews, I reminded the Prime Minister that he had said: we are going to bomb for six months first. I thought that was a cold and cynical remark: we are going to bomb for six months and then see how far we are. We've been bombing for six months. I have the impression that the bombing of Iraq has contributed little to the change in relations in Iraq. I have the impression that the intervention from Iran, even Iran, is making more sense. I just don't know what the result will be. I ask the government how much they estimate the risk that, should we change power relations in Iraq and Syria, we will then have a Shiite penal expedition towards the Sunnis. The government also acknowledges in its updated note that one of the main reasons that ISIS could grow so suddenly is in ten years of oppression of the Sunni population by the Shiite majority. If we can reduce IS later, but then get a criminal expedition led by Iran towards the Sunnis, what have we got? It is another form of violence, but its intensity does not differ from what IS pours out on the people. I'll put that question to the government, too. We are bombing now, and there may be a change in the balance of power, but are we really much further? What does the government think of the President of the United States' remark that the intervention of the early 2000s in Iraq is considered to be part of what is to be said? The babysitter has been the danger we're in now? I do not feel like saying 'we have always said that' now, because I do not know all that, but if we are to see that now, we must think very carefully about how we want to proceed with Iraq and Syria. Otherwise we will say again in ten years' time that our way of intervening in these countries has brought about new crises again. In addition to the problems in Syria and Iraq, we also see disintegration in Libya. There's a downward spiral going on, it's in the government's update. We are now even seeing a radiating effect in Tunisia, which was the most hopeful country at the time of the Arab Spring. Should we have made other choices now that we look back at what happened in Libya? We have also intervened there and brought about regime change, but I do not know whether we have really gotten much better. That too cannot be reversed; we are concerned about it. I ask the government how it thinks, in the context of its international security strategy, that the Netherlands and perhaps the EU could contribute to stabilising the situation in Libya, which may be the biggest problem for North Africa in the short term. I'm coming up on TTIP, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership. Last year, the government said that the European Union as a trading bloc could be a significant factor at global level, especially if the free trade agreement with the US can be concluded. But isn't the establishment of that treaty likely to be such that multinational companies and their lobbyists in that zone are often going to make the decisions? To gain more power in the world is one thing, but whether this expansion of power also benefits the interests of our citizens rather than the interests of large companies is another matter. How does the government see this happening in the light of protecting our economic security, one of the government's strategic goals? How does the government view the German Minister for Economic Affairs' remark that he is concerned about the way TTIP is developing? Are the Germans suddenly overly concerned? Or is there also reason for the Dutch government to say that this way of continuing TTIP can become an extremely big problem? In its letter of last winter, the government called for the common security and defence policy to be strengthened, as many colleagues have argued in favour of it. I have my doubts about that, and that will certainly not be a surprise. What is the government's view of Germany's plea not only to strengthen cooperation in the defence industry and in the European arms industry, but also, as witnessed by the Berlin appeal, to create a European army, something which Jean-Claude Juncker has already endorsed? Did the then government of the Netherlands at the time of the Treaty of Lisbon not say that those who spoke about the advent of a European army saw ghosts? At the moment, if you want to qualify it that way, those ghosts are advocated by quite a few prominent politicians. I think this would be a step in the wrong direction. Instead of integrating even more quickly, because if you get a European army, we should stabilise and wait with European integration until the people of Europe can experience it. European integration without the population is the most stupid thing we can do. This will lead to destabilisation in the long term. I have not made any comments on development cooperation. I know that these ministers are capable enough to replace Mr Ploumen, but I would rather discuss this with her in a discussion. My final comment concerns nuclear disarmament. The update that the government has written to us says that under the current circumstances there is little room to talk about nuclear disarmament. I understand that, but I think it's very dangerous. It is precisely in a time of increasing tension that we should make every effort to work on nuclear disarmament. President Putin's muscle talk about having his missiles ready in the Crimean crisis should get us thinking. Are there any opportunities to work on nuclear disarmament at this time in particular? At the end of its 2014 note, the government writes that today's choices will have to be sustainable as well. Can I totally agree with that? May I hope that this discussion will help us think carefully before we make decisions? We should not look away, I say with colleague Van Kappen. However, we should not be alarmist either by saying that the world is now in the greatest possible difficulty. We need to make realistic analyses to come up with new arrangements and ultimately achieve what was also the title of a 2003 note: a safe world and a safe Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u113	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for having this debate. Sometimes I get the feeling how useful it is to conduct policy debates in the First Chamber. A lot belongs on the other side. But international and national security is a theme that lends itself to being discussed here at regular intervals. The world hasn't gotten any clearer. When I was growing up we had just finished World War II and there was only one enemy left: the Eastern bloc, the USSR. And yes, the communists were behind all evil, including the Vietnam War. That was the general view. We knew from China that Mao was the great leader and that there was a dark regime out there, far away, but it didn't actually pose any threat on a global scale. We had a rather simplistic world view. We were rebuilding. We were engaged in economic progress and progress in all kinds of other areas. In 2015, we have to fear not only states and undemocratic regimes, but mostly radical groups and individuals who have lost their way, who operate in all kinds of places on our globe, including our continent. In some cases, think of IS, they even proclamate a new state, right through existing state structures. China has been transformed into a world power from an underdeveloped area in an instant. Countries in Africa are experiencing turbulent developments. Several of them were thrown back into a cold reality after a hopeful Arab Spring. It may be de facto safer than a few decades ago and we no longer have major world wars, but fewer wars between states does not mean that the world has become safer. The lack of clarity has increased. The information we get from all over the world has increased explosively and exponentially. We get 24 hours a day and 7 days a week to know everything about everywhere. That doesn't always make you feel calm. For D66 it remains interesting to note that the unification of Europe has in any case made us on our continent, apart from the civil wars in former Yugoslavia, have been spared from major wars for more than 70 years. This is indeed a blessing for everyone who lives within the EU. Peace on your continent. I'd say it costs a lot, but then you've got something. The note and letter from the cabinet are also the latest in terms of analysis and taken by the bank in terms of policy intentions of good quality. However, you should review the proposed approaches almost daily due to constantly changing circumstances and fact complexes. It really calls for situational leadership. Take, for example, Netanyahu's election victory in Israel; other colleagues have also spoken about this and his statement that a two-state solution is not going to come. Add to this the late congratulations of Obama to Netanyahu and the remark that the USA is going to review its Israel policy; perhaps not in its security approach, but in the wider agenda. What does that mean for bringing the two-state solution closer? Add to this the progress made in the talks between the United States and Iran on nuclear policy and on the joint fight against IS. How complex can you get it and how does the Dutch cabinet view it? As far as Minister Koenders is concerned, has "the strategic moment" come for the EU and the Netherlands to actively promote a two-state solution to Israel and, therefore, to promote recognition of Palestine? I'd like a response. Would the Foreign Minister also comment on the role of Saudi Arabia in particular? After all, Iran and the United States are finding each other more and more. Mr Kox just rightly outlined that it strengthens a more Shiite axis at the expense of the Sunni, who through ISIS is expressing his atrocities, with or without the support of sources from Saudi Arabia. I am very interested in the question of how we deal with this issue. The whole Middle East remains a great powder keg for world peace. I would like to hear from the leaders to what extent they are satisfied with the progress made on a renewed European security policy. Is Mrs Mogherini, in their view, in a firm and decisive position and are we on track? As far as the D66 Group is concerned, it cannot be done quickly enough, because the old policy is based on a 2003 note. The recalibrate promised shouldn't take very long. We have several reasons for this. The EU is being addressed by Russia. President Putin was constantly harassed. This applies to the handling of the MH17, in which the Netherlands is very specifically involved and of course Malaysia and Australia. This applies to Russian policy to support separatist groups in Ukraine and thus to remain just below the radar of Article 5 of NATO. We have not achieved much with our economic sanctions policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u114	I would like to ask a question about that last sentence. On what does Mr Van Boxtel base that? If we hadn't done it, it might have been a lot worse. Now we have done it and we suspect that it has contributed something. Now Mr Van Boxtel simply says that we have barely achieved anything with it. Can he specify that? Is he for or against the sanctions?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u115	Unlike Mr Kox, I do not distance myself from the policy of sanctions, but in fact I note that it has not brought us much closer to a solution. You must remain critical of the instruments, the palette of instruments you have. You have to keep checking if they're effective. Of course it's okay to freeze assets to get them under pressure, but last night I saw that the fights at Marioepol have flared up again. Perhaps the separatists are behind that or are trying to secure the Ukrainians Marioepol. The economic sanctions do not seem to prevent Ukraine's continuing erosion. I want to exchange that in dialogue with the government. To what extent are the EU Battlegroups operationally deployed? In my opinion, they have never been deployed, and that has nothing to do with the complex sovereignty discussions that this entails. The cabinet must really involve this phenomenon of European sovereignty in relation to local and national sovereignty in this debate. The EU still lacks an effective common policy for refugees and asylum seekers. As long as this is the case, you should not be surprised that we are getting emergency plans like those of yesterday's MP Malik Azmani of the VVD to allow asylum reception only at the external borders of Europe. I'm not going to have a moral debate here, but a plan like that suddenly comes on the table. How does the cabinet actually judge this little plan? Can we do that, do we have to do it or do we have to do it on another track? We must not confuse the citizens of the Netherlands with all kinds of suggestions which then prove unfeasible. I'm curious to hear your substantive response to a plan like this. I therefore support Mr Van Kappen, who does not want to put the seriousness of the issue under the carpet. I don't want to. The EU also lacks a coherent policy of prevention and repression of jihad-goers, which is urgently needed. What does the cabinet think of this and what initiatives does the government take to achieve a more coordinated European policy, including the simplistic division of tyrants and terrorists? As far as D66 is concerned, we are in a hurry to have a new common European security policy and we would like to hear what steps the leaders present here are taking to achieve results. It is all the more pressing if we are to achieve a more effective and efficient defence policy. In D66's view, we want further integration into a Western European defence force, possibly as an independent part of NATO. This is all the more pressing, because the US is increasingly focusing on Asia and more specifically on China as a major other world player. The Americans would like Europe to be able to hold on to its own pants a little more, Mr Van Kappen also referred to it in relation to the conflict at our Eastern European borders. I would like a response from the two rulers on this point. Of course, there are more practical reasons, such as more common procurement policy for equipment and ammunition. I am convinced that despite the need to spend more money on security and defence policy, there are still many reasons for looking at increased efficiency. Is this process of further integration now progressing as desired and at the desired pace? The D66 Group would like to express its condolences from this place with the two victims of the crash in Mali and wish the family and friends all the strength in carrying and processing this great loss. We also thank the President for her words on this. We realize that Dutch people in many places in the world contribute a strong stone in the interests of international peace, security, human rights and the protection and/or development of trade interests. We are doing this, among other things, with a defence organisation which has had to make huge cuts and which we believe is more than achieved. What the D66 Group is particularly intriguing is to what extent the cabinet believes that the existing international bodies can still do their job with sufficient authority; the Security Council, NATO, the G20, the G8, the EU, the Asean and the BRIC. Many of these institutions have worked well for a period of time, but the changing security issues, the rapidly changing geopolitical relationships in the world and the fragmentation of interest groups are increasingly making you feel that the fixed institutions are being less and less able to do their work, and therefore their positions of authority are subject to erosion. It seems to be lacking in a common goal; self-interest or partial interests dominate far too much. I know it is very easy to see this, but it is very difficult to come up with good new answers. I invite the rulers to reflect in this debate how they see that path. Where should we start to put these institutions in a stronger position or start looking for new answers? Next year, the Netherlands will be back to chairing the EU. What is the government's commitment to further shaping the common foreign and security policy? Does it choose to serve as President or does the cabinet intend to steer a little more towards that common security and defence policy? As one of the founding fathers of the European Union, D66 has every right to seek further acceleration and renewal of the European security and defence policy. I would like to be specifically briefed on two issues. Firstly, energy policy, which Mr Ganzevoort and others also considered. Energy is a delicate infrastructure subject, with all kinds of security questions coming around the corner. I remain very curious as to how this security policy will be shaped in the coming period with a view to participation in Europe, by Foreign Affairs and Defence, but also with the involvement of Economic Affairs. The second point is cyberspace or cyberwar. This involves a careful balance between privacy protection and innovation with modern technology. I'd like to hear what the cabinet's commitment to this file is. It will not be surprising that there is a great interest in this subject in the Senate, given the ongoing and ongoing discussions with other rulers about cybercrime, intelligence and metadata, looking at Mr De Vries. We have just received new answers from the Minister of the Interior to all kinds of questions we have asked about the security of our ICT networks. Every time I get an answer, it immediately raises the question whether it is a good answer or whether we should continue to worry. That respects several rulers within this cabinet. In this context, I think that Mr Van Kappen's suggestion of a more integrated approach to security issues is very appropriate, in several departments. Perhaps the indignation about the damage to art treasures can connect us even more than we think. I didn't hear any other speakers on this, but I found it strong that the French President Hollande visited the Louvre last week, together with the President of UNESCO, to look at the art from Mesopotamia, as a "cri d'alerte et de solidarité," after the destruction by ISIS in the Mosul museum and the burning of the library. What visible steps is our cabinet taking to show the great indignation about this? Why am I bringing this up? Everything of value is defenseless, that once densed Lucebert beautifully. This also hangs in lighting in Rotterdam, visible to everyone. Everything of value is defenseless, that applies to the lives of soldiers, aid workers, journalists and cartoonists, to any person who makes use of the right to freedom of expression, but that also applies to the victims of the various civilisations. Is the cabinet prepared to give more weight to cultural preservation in security policy? How could we do that? I also ask the cabinet to take an active part in combating the illegal trafficking of smaller art treasures from North Africa and the Middle East. What role can we play in this? I believe that the destruction of cultural heritage in many of the citizens beyond the complexity of these international issues is very much to the imagination and that this could be a title to put that value at the centre of how we, as people, can get closer together. I have often spoken about it with the Foreign Minister, and foreign and security policy is beginning much more at this time in its own neighbourhood, including in the Netherlands, where increasingly different people from different backgrounds want and have to make a new common future. The prime lubricant is culture: art, literature, music. What ideas and views do the cabinet have and what concrete initiatives have they led to? I would also like to use this debate to express my satisfaction with the fact that we have a full ambassador post again in Suriname. It will be said that this does not belong directly to security policy, but there were also discussions about cuts in all kinds of posts. I am glad that we have restored this in Suriname, if only because of the inseparable family, cultural and historical links that will continue to exist between many inhabitants of the Netherlands and Suriname, apart from the incumbent president. For that reason, I still do not understand why this cabinet has financially decoupled itself from the annual commemoration of the past of slavery, Keti Koti. In 2001 we realized a national monument for the commemoration of the history of slavery and less than fifteen years after that, this cabinet believes that it was enough and that we can proceed to the order of the day. To make a bizarre comparison, imagine that after fifteen years we would have done the same with the annual commemoration on 4 May on Dam Square. I thought you said the country would be in turmoil. I would like to hear a response from the Foreign Minister on this matter for me personally. Is he prepared to promote within the cabinet that the annual commemoration will continue to be financially supported by the government and not just to leave this to the chance benevolence of the city of Amsterdam? A people who succumb to short-term cent counters loses its cultural and historical dignity, I would say. In all the security debates it must be about the fist, but also about the outstretched hand presented by Mr Koenders himself. It is also often about recognition of these soft values. If these are not included in the security debate, both at home and in the way you deal with them abroad, then I think we are overlooking a very important part of international security policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-03-24-eerstekamer-6.u116	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments in anticipation of the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
