ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance, the spokesmen and, of course, those who follow this debate in any way. First, I give the floor to Mr Krol of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u2	Madam President. It is also unusual to be the first to speak. After the decision-making in August, the 2016 Tax Plan, the fourth letter of amendment and this novelle, we are once again taking stock today. Yes, 50PLUS recognises the positive effects of reducing the burden on many citizens, the economy and employment. That is profit, but the balance sheet is downright embarrassing when we look at the purchasing power effects for older people and benefit recipients. A law that is made less unjust is not yet a just law. The cabinet says that for 2016 the purchasing power for older people and beneficiaries has been raised. Up to speed? It is worth noting that pensioners have an average supplementary pension of around €650 gross per month. What is left in 2016 of purchasing power gains for an AOW member with a modest supplementary pension and for a single beneficiary? Well, zero point zero percent, so nothing. In that same year, a mode working will increase by no less than 2% to 4%. Only one qualification fits here: unjust. Also, the balance sheet for 2017 and the following years, including the purchasing power repair in this novel, is bewilderingly bad for pensioners. On balance, they will receive a structural burden increase of 250 million for choice, while workers will receive structural billions in burden relief. Unrighteous. 50PLUS does not yet see the beginning of a justification in the response as to why there should be structural relief for workers, while pensioners and beneficiaries have to do it with half-hearted incidental purchasing power repair. Why do they have to wait until the decision-making in August next year to maybe get some extras? Why this policy distinction between workers on the one hand and pensioners and beneficiaries on the other? Why not treat it the same way? Apparently, this cabinet believes that pensioners and beneficiaries are second-class citizens. I would like a thorough reflection of the Secretary of State on this point. Also a reflection on purchasing power development after 2016. It is extremely disappointing that the reply does not provide a clear answer to the question of whether the government believes that the tax package as it stands is a structural right to a balanced purchasing power development. I mean balanced for workers, people who cannot work and people who have worked. Can the Secretary of State at least give that answer today clear-cut and motivated? In the Millions note, the Minister of Finance confirms: "The pursuit of a balanced income ratio is one of the three pillars of the government agreement of this cabinet." Elsewhere in the Millions Note, the Minister says he stands for that. How do we reconcile the unbalanced income effects of the Tax Plan for the elderly and benefit recipients with this central principle of government policy? I'd like a response. Finally, Mr President. The comments of the cabinet in the accompanying letter to the novelle raise many questions about the extension of the municipal tax area by 4 billion. The two key questions of 50PLUS are: is the 4 billion of income tax evenly distributed between workers, people who cannot work and people who have worked? Can the Secretary of State confirm that the starting point for policy is that the purchasing power neutrality of this operation is structurally regulated for all population groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u3	We have spent more than 1 billion on purchasing power repair for the elderly. I congratulate the Cabinet on that. If it weren't for that repair, the elderly would be better off. It is remarkable that Mr Krol is critical of this Tax Plan. There have been many years when pensioners have improved their purchasing power more than workers. Does Mr Krol consider that we should have placed a greater burden on the elderly at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u4	We are looking at the Tax Plan as it now stands. I have to say that it is a law that is unfair to pensioners and beneficiaries. Mr Groot is right that it has become less unjust, but it is and remains unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u5	That wasn't my question. In the past, pensioners have made much more progress than workers for many years. Does Mr Krol consider that unfair too?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u6	In that period 50PLUS was not present in this house. Over the last eight years, older people have suffered a terrible decline. That is what I stand for and I oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u7	Mr. Chairman. Over the past few months, the cabinet, the CDA and D66 have played poker over the back of the taxpayer with taxpayers' money to bet. Who better to set up a poker face was the question. The tax plan would create 35,000 jobs. This wasn't enough for D66 and so D66 voted against the Tax Plan. Now, after months of negotiations in backrooms and many dinners, the Tax Plan still provides 35,000 jobs, but suddenly that's enough to support it. The CPB writes that the changes made by D66 to the Tax Plan give zero point zero percent jobs. I'm trying to see the negotiation talks for me. We bet on more jobs, it sounds on the side of D66. You're not getting anything. You're bluffing the Secretary of State. We pass for this round, call Mr Pechtold and Mr Van Weyenberg in choir. The Secretary of State is happy and thinks: that was easy. Earlier, he did the same trick at the CDA. Mr Omtzigt demanded three things: changes in box 3 had to be removed from the Tax Plan. The sole earner had to be met. The elderly needed help. Box 3 is still firmly in the package. The sole earner continues to pay significantly more tax than the two earners and the elderly have little to gain from this Tax Plan. The increase in the burden of AOW beneficiaries is still EUR 250 million. Congratulations to the Secretary of State. Without really changing the plans, he got both the CDA and D66 behind the Tax Plan. According to the models, the Tax Plan provides 35,000 jobs. That's good news. It is only extremely sad that it does not change the unemployment rate of more than 600,000 people. So you're actually spending EUR 5 billion and you know that in 2017 unemployment will fall by no more than 0.1%. Doesn't the Secretary of State think that's a pretty bad result? With regard to the SP, we can create a lot of jobs with the 5 billion, by stopping the cuts in care and, among other things, by meeting TSN's employees, by not increasing the burden by 20 billion in times of crisis, by not increasing people's VAT rates and by converting the landlord's tax into an investment obligation. Only converting the landlord's tax into an investment obligation can create 80,000 jobs. Also the hardworking Dutchman who lost his job in recent years because of the disastrous cabinet policy should have benefited, or the chronically ill, who has to pay more and more for care, or the retired Dutchman who lost almost 3% of his disposable income in four years. They all fall well behind those who have a job. Some of them are in the cold and cannot expect a recovery in purchasing power at all. They're moving up 0.2%, the Secretary of State says. 0.2%, while three quarters of beneficiaries are unable to make ends meet. Does the Secretary of State think this Tax Plan will bring that figure down? And all this while a people with an income of €60,000 next year will have to pay €1,000 less tax. They are improving €1,000. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u8	Mr. Chairman. A lot for little. A lot of time for little effect. A lot of money for little effect: 5 billion relief with a minimal effect. It has already been, and with the novella that is now before us, the amendment of the law, it is not getting any better. The employment effect is zero point zero. Completed, understood. So it's tiny. What about greening? There is indeed a fine amount for energy saving for households. That's fine, but they're still crumbs. This contrasts somewhat with the comments I have heard on this subject, including those of my fellow Members from D66. "Now the money is being distributed with hardly any job effect, but who dares to hand out money when people ask for it?" In a high tone, Mr. Pechtold during the General Political Reviews. So, Mr. Pechtold, I guess. It is prepared to do so. Mr Koolmees at the General Financial Reviews: "I have only one qualification for this: fearful politics; despite all the fine words do not dare to do what is necessary." Okay. Mr Van Weyenberg in the debate on the Tax Plan: "This Tax Plan is about as green as the color you get when you mix the blue and orange of the VVD with the red of the Labour Party: a little brown. The greening ambition is negligible. That is a disappointment to my group, because the climate and the environment, like unemployment, are major challenges where we need to take action today." Those were all words from my heart, but things turned out differently. Eventually it has become the most pathetic variant. Of the ambitions in the field of employment and greening, very little is left, almost nothing. That's too bad. I could imagine that if you had a negotiating position, if you had a foot in the door, you'd play that position a little more firmly, but it didn't. I say to the Secretary of State that I must admit that his fourth letter of amendment to the Tax Plan was more substantial than the novella that is now before us. I must also note that the novelle gives very small crumbs. It's a bit of the mirrors and beads, but of course we accept it. My party will therefore vote in favour of the novelle. This, of course, does not make the Tax Plan what we had imagined of it. Not by far. This means that the novelle can be supported by us, after all, which is an amendment to the Tax Plan, but that the Tax Plan did not have our support or will not receive our support. It has been possible that 195 countries agreed on an ambitious climate agreement in two weeks. I have to say that the cabinet has not been able to achieve more than crumbs for greening by giving away 5 billion, with all the processes that have been around it. That's very disappointing. In addition, I would like to leave it for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u9	Mr. Chairman. We have spent many hours on the Tax Plan. As the Secretary of State said in one of his many answers: tax cuts prove to be more complicated than burdens, which we unfortunately had to do earlier. It has taken a long time, extra time, but for my group it remains at the top of the line that after all these years we will finally be able to reduce the burden, which is essential to us and that we also see that labour pays. After all, we are concerned that people who work will get more and that work will be cheaper, so that employers will be able to hire people more easily. That is the essential thing for us. I'm glad this is just happening. Of course, this has led to confusion among people, so I ask what the Secretary of State is going to do about communication. That seems essential to me, because the payroll tax, if the House of Representatives agrees and the First Chamber agrees next week, will change in April. How is the communication about that going to take place? For the rest, the VVD Group is satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u10	I wonder how pleased the VVD is with this novelle. Has the tax plan gotten better or worse?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u11	We think it is an improvement that the exemption in box 3 goes up slightly. The reduction in the rate in the second disc, which reduces it a little bit, is a pity, but on balance we are dominated by the fact that the tax is finally going down and the reduction in labour is going up. We do not have 76 seats on our own, so we are simply glad that we have managed to get out with other parties and the Secretary of State. Now the Dutch are finally going to pay less tax, and that is what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u12	The question is whether Mrs Neppérus is happy with this novelle. Or does she say that it had to be done, but that she would rather have the Tax Plan in its original state? After all, all workers are falling back in purchasing power. I don't know if she noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u13	I saw everything. Some are getting a little worse, but box 3 still needs to be processed in the data. I am glad that the tax is finally going down, especially for the workers. That's what this country is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u14	Mr. Chairman. I hear Mr Van Weyenberg say two weeks ago: the CDA is through the pump. There he was. And now D66 itself is going through the pump. What a weak bite! We had a chance to send the cabinet home. The entire opposition, with the exception of the CDA, voted against the Tax Plan. It is unique that such a large minority expressed its disapproval of cabinet policy. With the 5 billion mea culpa package, the cabinet is trying to clean away the disastrous policy of the last three years, but the Chamber was right not to fall for it. Now it's gonna happen, thanks to our super-doger: D66. Give them a few nickels for isolation and childcare and €36 less savings tax and they're out. It is unfortunate that taxes on labour should be increased by 266 million and by 400 million in 2017. But why? Didn't D66 want more jobs and lower taxes on labour? D66 destroys with these novel jobs. Speaking of jobs, that's a subject that D66 has been talking about lately. How many jobs are created with this novelle? Zero point zero. We already knew that the 5 billion package would ever create 35,000 jobs in the long term, but what does that mean for the 600,000 unemployed? In the short term, more than less unemployment is expected, I read. So D66 got happy with a dead sparrow. 5 billion for some 35,000 jobs, that's €143,000 per job. Those aren't milking rinks, they're not Asscher rinks, but they're gold-edged Pechtold rinks. But what does this novelle do? He makes for less purchasing power, we read. Purchasing power is down 0.1%, I say to D66. Very working The Netherlands is getting worse, thanks to D66. As if that is not bad enough, the novelle also turns out not to be feasible, which means that the post-taxes will be on our backs in no time. The elderly who have just cancelled their allowance because of the abolition of the elderly allowance may now be eligible for it again, only not as of 1 January, but in the post-tax sometime in 2017. That's not how you treat taxpayers. The question is therefore justified why D66 said yes to this plan. There will be no additional jobs, less purchasing power for workers, and there may be, perhaps a little bit more greening. If you vote in favour of this Tax Plan, you should not complain about the breakdown of long-term care and disability care, as I say to the CDA. Therefore, you should not complain about the high excise duties and the disastrous consequences for border regions, about the high rents, about the 60,000 asylum seekers we are allowed to receive this year, about the negative purchasing power for older people, about the breadwinners, who pay five times more taxes than two-earers, about the stripped-out pension system and about the 600,000 unemployed. 'Cause that's what you get for free! Support for this Tax Plan is an unconditional support for the Cabinet and its demolition policy. As you know, the government lost the support of the PVV a long time ago. Therefore, the PVV does not support the Tax Plan, although the Cabinet writes a thousand novelles. It is time for another course in the Netherlands, a course in which the interests of the Netherlands and the Dutch are represented. The helm has to change, rather today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u15	I was able to follow the input well, but at the end I got a bit lost. Then Mr Van Dijck tied everything to everything: the Tax Plan, asylum seekers, retirement. The whole world's problem came along. I could, but then I would expect the PVV to vote everything away until the cabinet is decommissioned. If you are going to link everything to everything, so are motions, amendments and legislative proposals. Is that the new line of the PVV or does it continue to assess each proposal on its own merits?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u16	The SGP is a good example. She doesn't support the Tax Plan. The SGP did support the cabinet on all kinds of other dossiers, files that we would not support. In other words, we believe that the cabinet should go home as soon as possible and that it should be cleaned up. We've got to change course. We have to go 180° the other way. The interests of the Netherlands and the interests of the Dutch are being squandered. That is why we say: if you vote in favour of the Tax Plan, you will also vote in favour of higher excise duties and long-term care. Then you make sure that the cabinet can pass, as the SGP has been doing for three years to get the cabinet through.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u17	I would like to thank Mr Van Dijck very much for the answer to an unasked question. The question I did ask was whether the PVV is going to tell everything about everything from now on. Will the PVV follow a course in which it is against every bill anyway because of the mere fact that it wants the cabinet removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u18	If the PVV has the choice to send the cabinet home, it always chooses to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u19	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet sent a letter and a novelle last week with the adjustments to the Tax Plan. There is now a proposal that the D66 Group can support. It is a proposal that will make work pay more, including for parents who both want to work. It is a proposal that ultimately creates 50,000 to 55,000 additional jobs, including through the reform of the local tax area, which also offers the opportunity to reduce income tax by 4 billion. It is also a proposal that leads to less pollution: tax measures will result in an additional investment in the sustainability of construction and a concrete moment will be chosen during this cabinet period when coal power stations will close down. My group has always called for the attention of the cabinet on these points. We've been hard on that. The changes to the Tax Plan do not negate all the criticism of the D66 Group. In recent years... I see several spokesmen coming to the microphone, but I would like to finish my sentence. Difficult measures have been taken in recent years. Due to late maintenance, we were forced to implement long-delayed reforms during the crisis. There was one lesson to learn: fix the roof when the sun shines. By putting the Netherlands in order at a time when the economy offers air for this, you build up a buffer for times of crisis. The scope for burden relief next year should be accompanied by a large-scale tax review.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u20	That was a long sentence, but he's out now. I would be the first to give the floor to Mr Bashir for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u21	We are used to the fact that Mr Van Weyenberg is often here at the front, at the interrupting microphone, interrupting colleagues and engaging in the debate. He's a little quiet today. Apparently, there's not that much party to celebrate. I would like to know which purchasing power improvements are now being made. When I pick up the table and look at the mutations, all I see is lovers. I do not see any improvement in purchasing power due to the novella that is now before us. I see nothing but loves or zeroes, not a single plus.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u22	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u23	That is because they are a number of measures. I refer in particular to the investment in sustainable construction. That's a greening measure that you don't see in the purchasing power figures. On balance, however, I think that the purchasing power is in balance and I see that we are taking measures that will come to a large extent in 2017, such as an additional 200 million for childcare compared to the original cabinet plan. I think that's a win.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u24	The facts speak differently. We are now talking about a novelle for the 2016 Tax Plan. In 2016 we see only a decline in the purchasing power of different people through the novelle. According to the Central Planning Bureau, the number of jobs added by the intervention of D66 is zero point. And unemployment will rise next year because of the Tax Plan. Then you can't insist that D66 did the right thing by proposing these changes?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u25	A whole number of these changes will take place in 2017. That's what I just said. I find the purchasing power in balance. And here's what I'm gonna say about these jobs. Just look at the total package, including the local tax area. Mr Bashir also knows the fine CPB notes about this. In the long term, this overall package will lead to between 15,000 and 20,000 jobs on top of the cabinet's plans. I think that's a win. I'm happy about that. And yes, you always make appointments with the Cabinet. That then leads to compromises. I can strongly recommend that Mr Bashir, because then you can achieve things: things for working parents, things for greening and finally the reform with the local tax area, which we are about to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u26	I'm hooking up with that last one. The suggestion is being woken up as if we are now suddenly getting more jobs. 35,000 for 5 billion: that's still standing. Mr Van Weyenberg is now calling out: we have a profit point, because it goes to 55,000 jobs, because municipal taxes give room for manoeuvre. In fact, you would reduce income tax, increase municipal taxes, and that reduction in income tax could be for the benefit of the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u27	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u28	My question is: isn't that a complete pacifier? We are only talking about an extension of that tax in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u29	All these job effects are long-term. With such a reform, you have to start at some point. If you start it now, the municipal elections can go over it and then you can start it. In that case, income tax can indeed be reduced by 4 billion. All studies show that this can generate between 15,000 and 20,000 jobs. I'm happy about that. I am happy for local democracy and I am glad that it can reduce income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u30	But what is the big difference with the discussion we have had recently with the Minister of the Interior about reducing municipal taxes or actually broadening them to increase municipal opportunities? Isn't that all policy that's been put in place? There's nothing new about that. So D66 is happy with nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u31	Mr Klein might have had to pay more attention to the political considerations. A motion from D66 and the SGP was then put to the vote to launch this reform. Unfortunately, that motion was not supported at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u32	In the field of greening, I do not go much further than 100 million for energy saving for households. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me? I can tell a whole story here about coal power stations, but I think that a motion had already been adopted in the House of Representatives, apart from the Tax Plan and also before, and the implementation of it was already under discussion. It also has no relationship with the Tax Plan. Does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that it does not add up to the 100 million for private households in the field of greening?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u33	I do not agree with Mr Grashoff because, by pressing for this, also by Mr Grashoff and Mr D66, there has been a first step in the fourth letter of amendment, with the tariffs for gas and electricity. Indeed, we are now seeing 100 million for sustainable construction. A motion from D66 on coal power stations was tabled to the Tax Plan. The cabinet was extremely aware of the importance that my group attached to it. In the meantime, we have also been able to agree that the cabinet will present all this cabinet period with a concrete moment when these coal power stations will close early. I think that's a win. I am sure Mr Grashoff will agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u34	I think that about coal power stations is extremely profitable, but I do not see the relationship with the Tax Plan. I don't think that relationship is there at all. One of the things I am wondering is whether Mr Van Weyenberg is giving a proper perspective on what has been brought in. You have to do this to the citizens, the voters in the Netherlands in a fair way. If you're gonna settle for a little, you gotta be honest with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u35	And your question is whether Mr Van Weyenberg has met with little satisfaction?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u36	I'll take a look at Mr. Grashoff. Together with Mr Bashir, we have all tabled greening amendments during the examination of the Tax Plan. That didn't work. But by continuing to insist on doing more, we have seen a first step in the letter of amendment. We have always said to the cabinet that the closure of coal power stations is very important to us. We have tabled that motion in the course of the examination of the Tax Plan for a reason. That motion has been passed and the implementation of the motion has been strengthened in the agreement we made with the cabinet. This is how you take concrete steps forward by doing business. That's how I like to run politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u37	I do not think we need to discuss zero jobs in this cabinet period with Mr Van Weyenberg. That's just established. I do not hear Mr Van Weyenberg deny that either. So that's not the discussion either. The discussion, if you're talking about more jobs through this package, is the municipal tax area. We tabled that motion together with D66. That's one of the things we've been building together. But what exactly has been agreed on support? I read that it was agreed to submit a preliminary draft bill. But has it also been agreed that the coalition, which did not support the motion at the time, will support the proposal to increase that municipal tax area because the VVD and the PvdA voted against that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u38	Mr Dijkgraaf started with a sentence on which I would like to say a few words. All job growth in the model is in the medium and longer term. We have ensured that in the short term, next year, the child care allowance will be increased, and Mr Dijkgraaf is not such a fan of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that's a win. The agreements, the letter of amendment and the novelle reduce the tax burden on working parents. That is different from the proposal in the amendment put forward by Mr Dijkgraaf with a number of colleagues. Then about the local tax area. The cabinet is coming up with that proposal. It'll be worn. I always like to leave it to the cabinet to coordinate with the coalition groups. I'm not in charge of that. However, I am confident that this is a supported line, otherwise the cabinet would not have made that appointment with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u39	The first is not true, because the government's 5 billion package increases the number of jobs in the short term, because of the spending effect of the 5 billion that the economy is being pumped into. The CPB notes that employment is rising and so is supply. On balance, unemployment does not go up or down. Because of the D66 measures, nothing is happening at all: no jobs and no extra unemployment, so nothing at all. With regard to the municipal tax area, my question is whether more has been agreed than the submission of the preliminary draft bill, i.e. a rough outline of how you could do it. I believe it has been agreed that it should be submitted. That is different from the agreement to take that measure by submitting and supporting a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u40	I am not going to speak in favour of the coalition groups adopting their positions. The appointment we made, you read back in the letter. In the short term, Mr Dijkgraaf is always doing very cleverly by always saying it a little in advance, I see in the plans we have made that working parents who both want to work there next year, but certainly also the following year, are making extra progress. In Mr Dijkgraaf's plans they were taxed much more heavily. It will not surprise Mr Dijkgraaf that I think these plans are much better than his.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u41	You can hardly imagine it, but I spent 40 hours debating with Mr Van Weyenberg...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u42	I liked that as much as you did, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u43	For 40 hours I only heard it echo after jobs, jobs, jobs. Now we have got a novelle and they have gone through the pump, but I see no jobs and only a higher load in the second and third discs, on labour. Thanks to your novelle and effort, we are now getting fewer jobs. Is that the result of 40 hours of negotiation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u44	The result of 40 hours of negotiation by the PVV Group is that she wanted to send the cabinet away before and after the debate. In this sense, nothing has changed in Mr Van Dijck's position, but that is of course his right. I note that we are now really taking a step towards making working for, for example, working parents pay more. I think that's pure profit. I also see that we are going to start a reform. And yes, there isn't one day. This reform leads to lower income tax and thus additional jobs on top of the cabinet plan. I think that's a win. There will also be more greening, which I know Mr Van Dijck looks at differently. I think this is a step forward. Is this all I've ever wanted? No, of course not, but it's called compromise to ensure that the burden relief can continue. My group is therefore satisfied with this result.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u45	I am concerned that I find the result of Mr Van Weyenberg's novella to be so lean for 40 hours. The commitment to a local tax policy is soft as butter. He doesn't even know if he has a majority for that; that's something for the future. Basically, therefore, in 2017 there will be an additional 100 million for childcare. If he had said that to the Secretary of State three weeks ago, we could have voted and he could have voted in favour. However, he has played hard to get and is still empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u46	I note that on a number of points I shall be passing through them in a moment to make a profit: profits on green, on jobs and finally a reform that we have wanted for a long time. We do not want this reform alone, as I say again, even to Mr Dijkgraaf. You can also do it in the way of the PVV, which is to say that you are against everything. I prefer to reach cases, which will allow tax relief to take place next year in a way that we think is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u47	Mr Bashir, you have already been in this round.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u48	I would like to comment on another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u49	Then on a completely different point and very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u50	I would like to comment on municipal taxes, because they are also part of the agreement. I note that Mr Van Weyenberg is very much counting on an increase in municipal taxes, whereas there is no majority for that at all. The coalition voted against it in the General Reviews. The CDA doesn't want to vote for it. The SP is probably not in favour of increasing municipal taxes either. I can't imagine the PVV being in favour of it. So both in this Chamber and across the street there will be no majority for that...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u51	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u52	How does Mr Van Weyenberg know that municipal taxes will go up thanks to D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u53	I think I am saying for the sixth time now that this will reduce income tax. This is a bit of Mr Bashir's undergraduate interruption. Income tax goes down by 4 billion. On balance, this is burden-neutral, but it does make work pay more. I think that's pure profit. And no, we didn't arrange that from today to tomorrow. Of course not, Mr Bashir, but that applies to any adjustment, such as the mortgage interest rate deduction and the AOW age. At least we are taking an important first step now. We're glad we're going to take that step now. We are then going to debate it extensively in this Chamber. I think it is pure profit that we will get such a preliminary draft of the bill to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u54	I note that Mr Van Weyenberg is not going to answer my question about the fact that there is no majority in favour of the legislative proposal. Indeed, we are now getting jobs, namely jobs for civil servants. Officials now have to work to write a bill that has no chance of being adopted in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u55	We will have the debate on this, but apparently I have more confidence in the actions of my aldermen than Mr Bashir has in the actions of his aldermen. He says he's against it. I would regret that. Let us rely on our local administrators to shape them in a very good way in order to reduce taxes on work. This seems to me to be a gain for local democracy and for employment. I have confidence in the aldermen, including Mr Bashir's. Mr. Chairman. We have called for a large-scale reform of the system. At Prinsjesdag we presented our own tax plan with indeed 75,000 additional jobs, more targeted deployment of the 5 billion, more greening and a reform of the local tax area. When I look at the sum of the fourth letter of amendment, the novelle and the accompanying letter, I see improvement on all these points. In the long term, the package will create 50,000 to 55,000 jobs with the local tax area. I see that the shift within the 5 billion package is such that working, especially for parents who both work, is going to pay more. I note that there will be an additional 200 million for the childcare allowance and a further 224 million for the employment discount. In addition, I see that the package contains a lot more greening than the original cabinet plans. In addition, not only was a motion from D66 tabled here to phase out coal power stations early, but the cabinet also undertook to choose a variant for this cabinet period and thus to choose a time at which these coal power stations will close early. There will also be a draft legislative proposal for the local tax area, which will also give scope to strengthen not only local democracy but also to reduce income tax. Then there is the already increased exemption next year in box 3, which is also a nice step. In addition, I look forward to next year's work at Prinsjesdag from the cabinet of the adopted motion of the SP, GroenLinks and D66, which states that the cabinet must do everything possible to submit a legislative proposal to the Chamber for the taxation of actual returns as early as next year. I am pleased that it has finally been possible to reach agreement with the cabinet on this. Of course we would have liked to move on. That is why we have tabled various amendments and motions during this debate, which has indeed lasted more than 40 hours, sometimes alone, but also very often with others in this Chamber. If that kind of amendments and motions do not make it all, you will eventually have to compromise. D66 was always willing to do so, even during the treatment in the Lower House. Unfortunately, at that time it was not possible to reach that agreement, so today it was possible to do so. With this there is now a view of a majority for the Tax Plan in both Chambers. This means a substantial reduction in the burden for next year. That is good news for the people, good news for employment and good news for the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u56	If anything had come out of the negotiations around greening, which transcends what was already there, that would be its concreteisation. We now read in the cabinet letter and the explanation to the novella that there should be a plan for the phasing-out of coal power stations and coal-free energy supply in the long term. Can Mr Van Weyenberg tell me what period that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u57	Of course, that's what these variants are developed for. The most important sentence, of course, is not read out by Mr That is not only the motion tabled by Mr Van Veldhoven and myself during the examination of the Tax Plan. Fortunately, that was also with the support of the Green Left Group. I did not expect anything else, I say to Mr Grashoff. We're all in this together. During this cabinet period, the cabinet comes up with a concrete variant and a concrete date for the early closure of these coal power stations. Once again, I think that is a real tightening up of that motion that has already been adopted. I welcome that and I am sure that Mr Grashoff will also be able to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u58	Mr Grashoff in the second instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u59	I asked at what time Mr Van Weyenberg felt that this should be done. He doesn't answer that. Give him another chance to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u60	I started my answer to Mr Grashoff's question, if that was not clear, with the sentence that those variants will be there because you have to do your homework well. As soon as possible, we have always said. These variants are being worked out and the cabinet is going to inform the Chamber of when these coal power stations will close early. This is done on the basis of all homework. That's all very well in the letter of the Chamber. That is what we are going to debate here, and I think we share the desire to close these coal plants as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u61	Thank you. Mr Klein, please also briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u62	Mr Van Weyenberg ended his speech with a lot of lamentation about the procedure during the 40 hours in which he did everything and unfortunately nothing succeeded. The D66 Group then voted against the Tax Plan. We have the novelle now. I understand that the D66 Group will vote in favour of this. Does this mean that D66 will now vote retroactively for the entire Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u63	We said in the course of the debate that we would very much like to do business if this leads to more jobs, more greening, less pollution and lower labour costs and that real reform. That is what we have been working on. We felt that this was not enough even after the letter of amendment. "Too thin" is what we called it. We have always argued against the cabinet that we like to do business. By the way, we were already a long way on the way with the cabinet for the final conclusion in the House of Representatives. What was on the table at the time could not count on the support of the CDA Group. At the moment, there is an agreement that is close to our own priorities, so I am very satisfied. Yeah, we'll back it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u64	So that means, in concrete terms, that the vote against the Tax Plan at the time, and in particular the arguments put forward by the D66 Group for the reduction of public debt, is no longer valid and has been annulled retroactively?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u65	No, we have always said that it is justified to use those 5 billion tax reliefs if you get enough in return. This was about greening, about a number of breakthroughs around local taxation and more progress for working parents. If you realize that and the cabinet meets you on those points, you vote in favour. That's how it works for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u66	Mr. Chairman. I think it's time for a positive input from the opposition. I'll start by complimenting the Secretary of State. After many debates and discussions, he managed to manage to get a majority behind his....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that's worth a compliment. That was the good news. What do you have to say about this? There's a novelle. I'd like to summarize it with the phrase "you'll be there for it." We spent many hours debating each other. We've been through a very long journey together. It started in June, when we were in the Treasury Department in a room. The Christian Union, D66, GroenLinks and we were there. Then Mr Pechtold of D66 said: 'Too little room for creating new jobs'. That's where the meeting went. Then the Secretary of State started looking for support. In the General Political Reviews, Mr Pechtold said to Mr Zijlstra: 'Where have these jobs gone?' Then there were 35,000 jobs that are now there. "I don't see anything. Money is spent, but the result is minimal." In the course of the Financial Reviews, I think my esteemed colleague, Mr Koolmees, tried to outdo Mr Pechtold. That is almost impossible, but he said: "The 2016 budget is a missed opportunity. A missed job opportunity. A missed chance of growth. And a missed chance for stability. While the cabinet sounded so hopeful last year. When offering the briefcase, the minister was talking about a tax reform! Ambition! Jobs! I almost started believing in it. But now that we've been a year, there's nothing. No tax reform. No ambition. And no jobs! Mr President, I have only one qualification for this: fearful politics. Despite all the fine words, do not dare do what is necessary." Mr Grashoff quoted the latter, but as we do in our tradition, we always put it in context. In the Tax Plan, Mr Van Weyenberg said: "I think there are far too few jobs. We ran away because there was no ambition to deliver those 100,000 jobs. I assume that the coalition parties are only willing to do business if that leads to more jobs. D66's plans lead to 40,000 additional jobs." Mr President, many words, zero deeds, a novelle, zero jobs. Yes, says Mr Van Weyenberg, we have just had that debate in the tax area. That could create jobs. The SGP has been for this for 20 years, so it's wonderful that D66 brought it in for us, but I think it's very uncertain. I'll ask the Secretary of State to do that. What's the certainty of that? What exactly did the Cabinet agree to? I think it is a preliminary draft bill, but not a support for the plan itself. Isn't that right? So the question is: is that plan going to happen now? No, I think there's going to be a preliminary draft bill. In short, the question to the Secretary of State is: does the coalition support this plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u67	Mr Dijkgraaf is particularly involved in this issue of decentralising taxation and strengthening tax opportunities in municipalities. So is my group. When we read the letter from the cabinet, six conditions are mentioned, if I have counted correctly. It must not lead to a different distribution of income, it must not lead to a burden increase, it must not be at the expense of certain groups. I have two questions which I am also interested in as co-initiator in this area. Is it now real to assume that there can be a preliminary draft law that meets all these conditions? If it were to do so, would there be an assessment on the part of Mr Dijkgraaf as to whether there is still any job effect? Then it almost seems like an accounting trick to move tax burden from A to B, while everything else would remain exactly the same. Then I think it's very strong that that job growth would be in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u68	Nor are we unconditioned for such a plan. In my opinion, that is no one, because what we obviously should not have is that, on balance, it increases the burden on the citizen, while reducing the burden on labour but increasing the local burden. So that would actually be the most important condition for me, that it should not lead to a burden increase and, if possible, to job growth. Whether that is possible within that condition remains to be seen. That's very insecure. They are strict conditions that are imposed on them. My main objection is that you can ask for a plan, but that doesn't mean that plan is going to be one. 'Cause then you've really achieved something. Now I think you only have a chance at a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u69	I fully agree with Mr Dijkgraaf. So it's just a chance for a plan. But if I understand correctly, I hear between the rules that Mr Dijkgraaf also has doubts as to whether that plan actually has a chance of success, if you put so much framework conditions into it that it becomes almost impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u70	Yeah, sure. We would like that plan to come about. But for us it is also important what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u71	Mr Dijkgraaf continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u72	The SGP voted against the Tax Plan out of conviction. One earners were screwed again. They already paid the top prize compared to two earners and added another €2,000. This amounts to €8,000 to €11,000 more tax. We find that indigestible. The motion Schalk c.s. remains unimplemented for the time being, although it has been accepted into the Upper Chamber. This novelle doesn't change anything about that. We voted against the Tax Plan and we see no reason to vote in favour of it. It does not create jobs, it reduces purchasing power and the gap remains. For the time being, at least, I would like to conclude, because fortunately, more and more parties see that you have to deal fairly with the 1 million single-earners. Not for nothing did the motion at that point just get a majority in the First Chamber. I would say that we may have lost the battle with regard to the amendment we tabled, but we certainly have not lost the war yet. The motion Schalk c.s. and I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the cabinet will proceed towards 2017. As of tomorrow we will at least pick up the hatchet again to fight for a fairer tax plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u73	Mr Dijkgraaf and I have been working together to address the gap between single-earners and two-earners. Now there is a novella which does something about the employment discount and which is especially suited to the two earners. Can Mr Dijkgraaf confirm to me that the novelle further widens the gap between one earner and two earners?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u74	Yeah, that's kind of the case. It's not going in the right direction. It's going in the wrong direction. That is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u75	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating this Secretary of State. I think he's going much quieter than it looked a few weeks ago. I would characterize this novel as "the fairy tale of jobs." My party was not the party that insisted on more, more and more jobs with this Tax Plan. We have always indicated that you are doing more with a tax plan than just creating jobs. You can also use it to see if the resources you have are being spent fairly. But especially those who were hammering on those jobs have now gone down the road with a novelle which shows that in the longer term there are not so many additional jobs at all and that in the short term unemployment can increase. I think that is quite an observation; let me put it this way. Then it is also up to those who will vote in favour of this novella to explain why they have chosen to do so. As far as we are concerned, the novella would have been the best chance of making it a fairer tax plan, for example by reducing the gap between single-earners and two-earners and by allowing chronically ill and disabled people to share in the 5 billion package. Are there nothing but bad business? No. The closure of coal-fired power stations, the old-age reduction that remains, the increase in the tax-free capacity in box 3 are all things to which my group itself is in favour. I have not even mentioned that, for example, the postcode rose amendment has also been adopted, the only one in the Tax Plan that may also come into effect as soon as possible. But when I take stock, I think this is a novel in which we do not meet our ideals, ideals that we do not have for ourselves, but for those who take care of another person every day or who always have to deal with a disability that does not allow them to work fully. We have fought for these ideals, but they have not come any closer with this novelle. In fact, they may have gotten a little further away. I have two more factual questions. First of all... The Secretary of State himself said, almost as a kind of threat, that a vote against the Tax Plan would lead to a massive mega-tax, because all the provisional declarations had already been made. This novelle is going to lead to a proper post-taxation, isn't it? Can the Secretary of State indicate how big it is going to be and how many people will be affected by this novelle because they will be facing a post-tax next year? Second. What does it mean if the Tax Administration itself says in the execution test that the signal is on red? This while there is so much emphasis on this that the execution test had to be completely executable. With this novelle a change is made. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? How did this take into account the choice to submit this novel? I don't need a second term anymore. Summarizing: this novelle contains good elements, but does not bring our ideals closer and especially the ideals of the people who work so hard and are so deeply concerned, but have to do with limitations. This means that we will not vote in favour of this novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u76	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the Secretary of State. He has worked extremely hard, made a huge effort to bring this Tax Plan to a successful conclusion, at least as it seems now. I would also like to thank the department and all the officials who had to get back on their feet this last weekend to answer all the questions. The Labour Party supports this novelle. For us, we have always insisted that the Tax Plan should lead to more jobs and that, above all, the low incomes and middle incomes after years of decline should now get hundreds of euros more to spend. That's still standing up with this novelle. I have one more question and one more comment. It is a nice new tradition that all new tax measures are now subject to implementation tests, but it seems that this will result in fewer and fewer changes being made. Mr Omtzigt has already mentioned this. Does this not undermine the substantive debate and the right to the amendment of the House of Representatives? The Secretary of State says something about it in his written report. He announces that he will come up with deadlines on which next year the systems of the Tax Administration can still be adapted. Is there any rack in those systems and can those data be pushed back a little bit? This would benefit Parliamentary consideration. The agreement between football and politics is that the result counts. As far as we are concerned, this result is more jobs, more purchasing power and also more greening. That's nice, but the game was long and especially the many extensions were sometimes ugly to see. At the very end it turned out that to get a majority in the Senate there were measures needed that could no longer be incorporated into the systems of the Tax Administration. I think it is rather ironic that the house across the street, the house that has to watch over careful and implementable legislation, has caused the Tax Administration to be burdened with additional implementation costs and that citizens and employers will have to deal with other payroll tax tables in April. I really hope and hope that next year will be a little more flexible. I do not wish the Secretary of State to have another delirium from the many cups of coffee. I hope, especially for all Dutch people, that next year they will not have to wait until just before Christmas for tax rates for the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u77	I'm gonna warn the Secretary of State, 'cause he'll be able to think about it. I think the Secretary of State misinformed the Chamber because he doesn't drink coffee at all. I think the Secretary of State is just drinking tea, but I'll come back to that later. What exactly was agreed with D66 on municipal taxes? Is the Labour Party going to support a proposal which fits within the defined framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u78	In any case, what Mr Bashir said is wrong. We did indeed vote against his motion in the summer. It was about the tax area, but we voted against more motions. There was then a compromise on the Tax Plan. We held on to that compromise and therefore voted against all the motions that violated it. Just before, there was a discussion about a municipal tax area. There was also an offer to talk to D66 about that. The whole coalition had opened up to that debate. I now assume that there will be a bill from the cabinet. The cabinet wants the law to be borne by us, so we are going to take that preliminary draft very seriously. We're gonna see how good that bill is. It is not the case that we are opposed in advance, because that is what Mr Bashir suggests. We are going to have a serious debate on this. I think it contains the same thing as Mr Dijkgraaf. It depends on the conditions and the design how far we can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u79	That sounds very open. The door is open, we say in politics, and that means you can still go anywhere. You don't say no in advance, but you don't say yes. There is no guarantee that the plan will actually go ahead. It depends on what the coalition thinks about this in this case the PvdA Group at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u80	It is as Mr Dijkgraaf himself says. It's hard for me to support a bill that's not even there yet. The cabinet is the first move and we see the bill coming. We shall then make up our minds about it, just as Mr Dijkgraaf does.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u81	Mr. Chairman. What wasn't possible at first was done in the back rooms. The compromise with D66, this novelle, is a pure pacifier. The existing buttons are played here and there. What comes with the people on the right, goes off to the left again. The only bright spot in the novelle is the increase in tax-free power in box 3. People who do not spend their money, but put aside as an apple for thirst, should not be fined for this. The increase in tax-free capital is a first step. I would like this to be a trend and a yearly increase in tax-free capital, so that small savers are spared and that effective returns are taxed. There is a further proposal on this subject. It is a missed chance that no reform will take place. The whole updated Tax Plan, the novelle, is just an optical party. For 2016 there is even a tax increase in the second and third discs compared to the original plan. 2017 seems to be getting better, but who lives then, who cares. We had 5 billion that we could use for real reforms, but now we only seem to get a few expensive jobs: 35,000 jobs for EUR 5 billion, over €140,000 per job. This can be achieved more effectively, can't it? For example, by creating jobs directly in the care or in the municipality and solving the needs there. These jobs really do not have to cost €140,000 each. In fact, this novelle does not create any jobs at all, at most among the companies that are going to take energy-saving measures. I don't see those jobs coming back anywhere. The only thing that remains to be pointed out is a mirage in 2019 in the shift from the municipal tax increase to the income tax reduction. The money needed for a proper review is now being thrown away as a scatter. Unfortunately, the novelle doesn't change that. The letter prior to the novella announced what we will see in 2019: the extension of the municipal tax area. For this, I can see opportunities in my own right. I welcome more freedom of choice for municipalities, which are close to the people. The Secretary of State writes that he lays down conditions, such as that municipalities do not pursue income policies, that charges are not unilaterally passed on to specific groups, that the system is feasible and that the overall burden burden remains the same. That's a lot of conditions. Can the Secretary of State lift a tip of the veil by indicating how he intends to secure these conditions? Are the groups he is talking about only the groups that he also takes into account in purchasing power, or are they also other groups, such as homeowners, for example? In any case, I was pleased with the news that the Secretary of State regards the precario on utilities as a tax to be abolished. This would be good news. This tax increases people's energy and water bills every year, firstly because of the rise in tariffs and secondly because more and more municipalities are going to charge this precario. Next year this will amount to an increase of a few tens per energy or water bill. The passing on of this precario to the customers does not only affect the customers in the municipalities that levy the precario. This also affects customers in other municipalities, as utility network companies are not allowed to charge different rates per municipality. As a result, everyone has to deal with this increase in the energy and water bill, even though he does not live in a municipality that raises the precario. There is therefore an urgent need to abolish this undesirable and unfair tax, as this problem is getting bigger and more difficult to abolish. However, the Secretary of State writes in his answer to the questions about the possible abolition of precario on utilities. Why? Is he prepared to say that it will surely be abolished? This is the wish of the Chamber, as has also been shown by the motion by Mr Veldman of the VVD, signed by me, which has been widely adopted. In conclusion, the novelle brings almost nothing new. In my opinion, he's not changing the tax plan and he's full of missed opportunities. Rightly, D66 was against the Tax Plan, for good reasons. Without real reforms, it would have been better to reduce public debt and opt for a real greening. Tax cuts are nice. Not as a gift, but to make our tax system fairer. Now it's just Santa Claus coming by for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u82	I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt, as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u83	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the extra time. Maybe we've even ended up at the penalty. However, I had actually planned from Enschede not to talk too much about football today. In the end, there was intended to be a good deal of relief here. Contrary to what a number of colleagues have just said, it is not the case that the government is giving money back to the government. This government's got a lot of money in it. If it needs less money, it is possible to impose less tax and to collect less tax from its citizens. In the tax plan before us, I should like to say this to Mr SP........................................................................................................................................................................... I am surprised that this positive effect is really not mentioned anywhere, which is not mentioned as a way of providing people with their own existence before they have to go to government. The Secretary of State must walk back and forth between the Second and First Chambers more often, also physically today, than he had planned in advance. However, it seems to be coming to the conclusion that this reduction in charges can finally continue. Before I get back to the content of this novel, I want to zoom in on the process a little bit. A novelle is already a rather special part of state law. The First Chamber is actually asking for something that it doesn't actually have. It is a kind of amendment, which should not be called an amendment. In this case, the novelle was already there before there was a debate in the First Chamber. That's a slightly newer form of state law, which I've actually never seen here. I would ask the Secretary of State to reflect somewhat on what changes in state law have taken place here. Has this happened, for example, at the request of the House of Representatives? Is the First Chamber now a special chamber of the Second Chamber? What's the state's position? This is important, even for the next time such processes occur. Back to the contents of the novelle. We are pleased that the D66 colleagues too are now in favour of the Tax Plan. I do not understand 100% of what measure that is taking, but well. Let's just see which things change. First of all, I agree with Mrs Schouten's question on post-tax. There may be a mini-levy. As a result of the double establishment of wage-tax tables, the wage-taxation rate used for the pay slip from April onwards is different from January onwards. This means that everyone will see a change in their pay slip with a few euros from April onwards. These are not major changes and that, if we understand yesterday's letter correctly, we will be quietly nailed down from month to month what we have supposedly paid too little in the first few months. For most people, that should be zero. I must admit that this is an excellent form of employment. After all, all wage administrators will have to install new software in April and they will also have to answer many questions. I ask the Secretary of State, who too quickly takes away blue envelopes, how many people cannot do so in time, which means that some extra blue envelopes will have to be put into the postal system by this small change, which is just a little too late in itself. Why wasn't the salary administrators just asked to do this immediately? The change is quite minimal, i.e. a percentage change in the second and third disks of 0,2%. This measure is easy to program. That could have just happened. Everyone would've been working late for two days, and then it would've been done. I have little substance to add to what my colleagues have said. On the basis of the novelle, the employment effects are zero point and the purchasing power effects are minus 0.1 average, with the largest outlier being 0.2. This is not enormous, given the major changes in the comprehensive package. The CDA welcomes the increase in the elderly discount in 2017. We wonder what happens to the childcare allowance. In recent years we have often seen that the childcare allowance remains in place. The childcare allowance has already been put up quite a bit in 2016. We look forward to a timely way of shaping it. Moreover, we consider the increase in the elderly discount to be rather special. Mr Krol and I had tabled a motion to do so from 2017. That motion was voted down, including by the VVD, the PvdA and D66, to name three random parties, but that increase is now simply included in the novelle. We are in any case positive about this. Less reduction of the employment discount, up to €35,000, is quite positive, but it falls away from the increase of the second and third discs. Those two cases work exactly against each other, so there is very little left for any effect. In the previous plenary debate on the Tax Plan, the CDA proposed that the elderly allowance in box 3 should not be abolished. In the light of the amendment to item No. 90 we note that in any case you should directly increase the tax-free capital to €25,000 for people over 65, because they now have a tax-free capital with a small supplementary pension of around €40,000, which goes to €20,000 and then to €25,000. The difference in tax is not very large, but the difference is huge if you are entitled to rent allowance. If you pay one euro box 3 charge, you lose all the rent surcharge. That can be €3,000 per year for people, so that has a huge effect. The Secretary of State did what we asked for in the last Tax Plan. He informed all the people in this group in good time with a letter. Hail for that, but let that letter be wrong afterwards. We have asked that question has not been answered clearly in order to send out a second letter. We insist on this: make sure that people are informed. Some people may prefer to spend €100 extra on fireworks, because they have rent surcharges, but people are allowed to do so. That's their right. If you tell them afterwards that they are losing the entire rent payment, the Secretary of State will receive an additional report from the Ombudsman and he is already saving it. So don't do that and inform the people. This is a very specific request. If there's another way to do it, do it another way. But at least do it, preferably within a week before Christmas. After all, people still have to do an act before 1 January. It was, of course, impossible to do this four weeks ago, but it is now feasible. We have not quite understood that yet, but we await the answers to the questions. The tax relief of 4 billion will be compensated through the municipalities. In ordinary Dutch: this means that the municipalities have to charge an extra €1,000 tax for each family with two children. Regardless of whether this is done via the ICI or through a resident tax, it is an increase of €1,000 in the municipal tax proposed here by D66. It is interesting that a plan is being drawn up for this. However, there was no majority in the Lower House. I do not really see the commitment of the Labour Party that it is going to examine this openly as a great commitment, because I hope it will do so with all the things that other colleagues are proposing. Of course, the novelle is going to lead to jobs. If each municipality introduces its own tax system, each municipality will hire at least one or two civil servants from the municipal tax authorities. The government has promised that the motion to phase out coal power stations will be implemented. I think that is a fair commitment from the government. In principle, I assume that all motions adopted will be carried out, even if we voted against, but I find it interesting that this should be noted as a commitment. Finally. Can the Secretary of State indicate how the CDA's adopted motion on compensation for the shift in energy taxation between electricity and natural gas will be implemented for natural gas-intensive companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u84	I have a quick question. There's going to be a 4 billion shift. As far as I know, there are over 7 million households. So that would be a little less than €1,000 per household of municipal taxes. What is the CDA's position on extending the tax area for municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u85	As my colleagues have said, there has been a motion on this. Contrary to what Mr Groot just said, namely that he voted away everything that did not fit in the package, we judged each motion on its own merits and voted against that motion in the Tax Plan. Mr Groot also spoke about the calculation. I was talking about a family with two children. That's four people. If I have to raise 4 billion out of 16 million people, I have to collect 250 euros per person. That's $1,000 per household. Mr Groot is right that you can burden a single-person household as heavily as a household with four people. You can play with that. You can also, as I say in all honesty, significantly increase the tax on local entrepreneurs. However, I am not sure how increasing the local tax burden on entrepreneurs will lead to an increase in the number of jobs. That's why I put it on the households. It's a tentative calculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u86	Mr. Chairman. I also think it is nice that there is a majority in both Chambers for the Tax Plan. That speaks for our democracy, I think. It also means that the Dutch, who has not only been cheering in the crisis, can benefit from the first recovery. It also means that there will be at least 35,000 jobs. Any renewed interest in reform can always count on cheers from me. It is also important that we also see at the bottom of the labour market that working pays off. Work is going to pay more and there are more incentives for people to take care of themselves and to become economically independent. For a moment I thought that we had ended up in a sort of 'democratic Pareto', in which there is no place to support it without another seat disappearing. Well, we figured that out, didn't we? That's good. The support has now been found in one direction, but it does suit me to express my sincere appreciation for the other directions that had also been possible. There are all kinds of spokesmen in the Chamber who have made very serious, sincere, sometimes repeated attempts to provide support, albeit under their conditions, with very serious questions, very serious political considerations and very serious proposals. It concerns GroenLinks, the SGP, the Christian Union and the SP. I am very grateful to all of them for that. I will not go into the debates between them. I have also heard some critical notes between the very appreciative mutual words, but I think they have been exchanged among the spokesmen. Several questions have been asked. I'll go through that as best I can. The only question in which the author said that the question had to be answered in detail was that of Mr Krol. I'll save that question for the end. I'll get back to you on that. I take his detail seriously by taking a little more time at the end. Mrs Neppérus asked how the communication goes about the increase of the second and third disc in this novelle. The primary communication is, of course, with the software providers, who have to do the payroll tax tables. This means that they must have all the information on 1 April. The Department and the Tax Administration have almost daily contact with some of these parties. So it's tuned with them and then the whole operation has to be set up before 1 April. Mr Dijkgraaf asked me: what is "security"? There is no such thing as security, but the plans referred to by Mr Dijkgraaf, for a larger municipal tax area, were already in the cabinet's initiatives. I cannot make any firm statements about support. If I have wanted to do so, I have learned in recent months to make firm statements on the basis of this. However, I would like to agree: first the content, then the views. That is what I am saying to someone who probably also has ears for a sensible proposal. We'll see about that. Mr Dijkgraaf also asked how the cabinet would proceed with the Schalk motion. Let's just say the point is made. The Tax Plan discussion was really about something this year. It wasn't just about the division between people who deserve more and people who earn less. It is about the distribution between workers and non-workers and also about the distribution between single-earners and two-earners. These are the real discussions about politics. The trial may have been tough, but the discussion doesn't require anyone to be embarrassed. The point is obvious. We have all been able to see from examples that it is also sanding somewhere. Even if you are still in favour of individualisation of the system, you still have to observe that it sheds occasionally. I do not see any possibility of carrying out the Schalk motion right now. Yes, she was hired in the First Chamber, but it calls for cases that would not come through the House of Representatives at the moment. That motion bites her own tail. Here's what I want to do. This was a rediscovery of what the Members of this Parliament are concerned with and of what they expect from a tax plan. I would actually like to consider Mr Dijkgraaf's appeal as the zeroth deadline for the discussion of the 2017 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u87	In my view, there was something else in the zero deadline, namely a commitment to D66 on the local tax area to come up with a preliminary draft law. In dealing with the Tax Plan, we asked in the Omtzigt motion, which included Mr Dijkgraaf, to study whether there were injustices and to identify them without any clear solutions. Now that the Secretary of State sees this as the zeroth deadline, I would ask that this be added to the letter and sent to the Chamber in June.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u88	You can't send a letter about whether something is just. Everyone here has a different view of this. In fact, that's exactly what it started with. The whole point is so marked because there were different ideas about what was just. You can't ask the Cabinet to send a letter about what's right. I can either write that letter today or we'll never agree on it. The point is that, in order to find majorities for the Tax Plan, it is important to take account of this broad range of views. That is why I think it is much more valuable to consider it as the zeroth period of treatment of the 2017 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u89	I'd still like to ask you to map that out. The motion for a resolution, Mr Omtzigt, also called for this. By the way, this motion was given the Court's judgment in an earlier stage. It should not be so difficult to implement this motion, because otherwise the motion would have had a negative pre-opinion. So I would like to ask you to identify what these differences are and what they are based on, without saying directly: the solution is here, or: there is a problem. The point is that the motion, which calls for this to be mapped out, is simply carried out neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u90	Then I would like to know what "mapping" is, because we have seen a mapping: that is this Tax Plan. What is Mr Omtzigt's expectations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u91	We are doing the interruptions in two, but I will briefly give Mr Omtzig the opportunity to explain the motion. The Secretary of State is challenging that. I would ask you not to do that anymore, because we are already tight in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u92	I won't ask any counter questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u93	This is to provide a comprehensive response to the CBP study requested by about eight parties and to identify groups in which they are burdened more heavily or less heavily, with the corresponding reasons, so that discussion can take place. If that could come in spring, that would be nice. Then we can have the discussion quietly and we don't have to mix it with the Tax Plan. It doesn't have to be a very long letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u94	If we do not have to devote PhD research or study to this, but when it comes to how these differences can be addressed, I am prepared to do so. Let us do it this way, because I do see that this discussion should be given a place in the debate on taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u95	The Secretary of State does choose an elegant wording. We are now about on the last term of the Tax Plan, with many deadlines for that. The Secretary of State has enjoyed this so much that he immediately announces the zeroth term of the next Tax Plan. I think that's a great sign of optimism. But how does the Secretary of State see the sequel? Where's this gonna land? Do we get a letter or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u96	I have just promised Mr Omtzigt that I will put some reflections on the way in which the differences in the CPB overview can be looked at. I am convinced, moreover, that Mr Dijkgraaf can put his views on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u97	We'll definitely pick up that glove in due course. It therefore means that the letter will deal with the possibilities of implementing the Schalk and Others motion.?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u98	I didn't say that. For the moment, I do not see any possibility of carrying out motions that would not reach the line in the House of Representatives. Let's start with the content, and then we'll look for majorities and do the political play. I'm writing a letter about how to look at it. That is where Mr Dijkgraaf, like many others, puts aside a vision. Then we'll see where that goes. But to say that now in the zeroth term, it is a bit much to ask for the treatment of the 2017 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u99	I have another question about the previous point, namely the local tax area. When I read the framework conditions with which the cabinet is framing it, such as maximum purchasing power neutral and income distribution as far as possible intact, my question is whether the Secretary of State considers it possible at all to come up with a proposal within these conditions. Could he also consider, looking at all these conditions, what the meaning of this is? My group is in favour of extending the local tax area, but the sum of these conditions is that nothing changes and that there is only an accounting shift from A to B.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u100	I think it is possible, but I feel little need now to come up with all kinds of reflections on this before it is finalized. It would be very silly to put these kinds of conditions on paper when you don't think you can. I'm not that lame. So, yeah, I think it's possible. The starting point may be similar to the situation now, but I would point out that from then on work or more work pays more than it does now. And that's valuable. It means that people have an incentive to participate more, to take care of themselves, to earn their own income, to develop, to become economically independent and to stand on their own feet. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u101	Does the Secretary of State also see any advantage in the direction it was originally intended for, namely to gain more room in the local tax domain? Or does that really not matter at all as far as he is concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u102	I'd say read Prince's Day's letter from a year ago. So it's not the angle. It makes sense, given the larger tasks of the municipalities to do so, but it is not the intention that more taxes are then levied. In fact, it is the intention that the bulk of the Modo about the Empire and all the levels of government should work out as much budget as possible. I think I have already answered Mr Klein's questions a little bit. I'm not going to elaborate on exactly what that is. One of the preconditions is indeed that you do not transfer it to subgroups. I can mention a few: the owners of houses and the entrepreneurs. That kind of single rejection is not desirable. That is therefore a prerequisite. Of course, it would be nice if we could remove taxes. What they will be, I will first have to have a sensible discussion with the UNG, among other things. Mr Groot has said that the execution tests are actually giving less and less room for the Chamber. I think that's a self-limitation that I wouldn't apply anyway. And that's not the way it's supposed to be. So far, the Court has been able to take decisions with implications for implementation without knowing those implications. That is a way of decision-making by the Chamber but also a way of informing the Chamber that I did not like at all. Being better informed can never be an external limitation. It can only be self-limitation, which is a very clean feature. That's what it's meant for in the end. It is meant that democracy does not do things that cannot be done. Being better informed about that can never be a disadvantage. Now there are several reasons to look at that process. Is there anything else you can do? The Tax Office is already being programmed in such a way that the preliminary attacks already appear around Princess Day. It is very complicated to deal with the parliamentary procedure before that time. You might want to see if there are ways to give the Chamber more time. It could be. That's what we can look for. Thinking about it has also started. Mrs Schouten, like Mr Omtzigt, has some concerns about possible post-taxes. That is really very small amounts, in the order of €30 or €40 in the first period. You can walk that in the next nine months. This should not lead to large and massive recharges. I would like to distance myself from one thing on factual grounds and on very serious grounds. No, I never made a threat that things would lead to chaos. I did not mention the word 'chaos' in any way, nor did I make the threat. The Chamber has asked here to put on paper what this could mean. The implications have been outlined as neutrally as possible. I really stand for that line. I've been through it all by myself, and I've changed it. In that it is appropriate for me, without sirens and flashing lights, to in fact inform the Chamber in an affronted manner. That's what happened. That's not a threat. That's not supposed to be a threat. I'm really gonna distance myself from that. It wouldn't fit if that was a threat. Then Mrs. Schouten could get a little mad at me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u103	It is a credit to the Secretary of State that he reads the letter properly and does not see him alone. I hear that's good in the cabinet, too. He said two things about the post-taxes. First of all, it was not about large sums. That's right. We'd noticed that ourselves. Secondly, he said that this would not happen massively either. Can the Secretary of State make an estimate of the number of additional mini-recharges? I think this leads to a lot of blue envelopes. How many people should receive a second preliminary declaration? How many people get a correction at the end of the year that can indeed be only €10 or €15?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u104	I don't know. In the case of wage taxation in normal employments that go through, it is smooth. I don't think it's possible for the preliminary attacks to take place. It could lead to post-taxation. This is all limited. The amounts could also be below the limit, so that they do not necessarily lead to a post-taxation. When people decide to adjust themselves in the meantime, this can lead to a change of blue envelopes. It's not for me to estimate how many people are going to go to trouble for this and what the numbers are.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u105	I hear now that most of the provisional declarations result in a new provisional assessment and probably a new provisional declaration. Is the estimate odd that this will lead to many hundreds of thousands, not millions, of post levies, or should we ask this again afterwards? Didn't they check this out in advance? These kinds of cases are checked at the execution test. How much extra post and postage will this yield?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u106	We know the gross numbers, but we don't know people's behavior. You don't know if people arrange this at the end of the year or arrange another payment in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u107	To avoid the second term: can we have the gross numbers? What's it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u108	I'll take a look at the gross numbers. Perhaps we can make even more sensible assessments of that which I cannot make from this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u109	Is it an idea to do that by letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u110	Yes, I'll do that in writing. Then I'll put that right to the point of employment. In reply to Mr Omtzigt, that is also possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u111	One moment, Secretary of State. Let me see if this is still necessary for the vote. Or doesn't it matter so much?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u112	Let me ask Mr Omtzigt for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u113	I see that Mr Omtzigt offers a coulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u114	No one can sit up in the Treasury anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u115	I just needed to know if it was necessary for the vote, but I don't have to. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u116	Then I will also include in that letter how the people with a rent allowance are informed about that piece between the 22 and the 25. In the first quarter I will send a letter on how to monitor gas and electricity. Then all I have to say is the point about the elderly. I'll give you the short version of that. It was a very serious question and the subject is also very much alive. It is one of the points that was very dominant in this debate. It has its roots in the period before this Tax Plan; in fact, it is all for this Tax Plan. Historically, there were all kinds of tax advantages specific to the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u117	I have another question about the previous point. The Secretary of State gets over it very easily by saying: in the first quarter I'll inform you about the pre-declaration for the rent allowance. However, there are many elderly people who have now cancelled their rent allowance because they are above that limit, but who may still be entitled to rent allowance. That does require some urgency. If the Secretary of State still wants to...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u118	Those are very different points. I've been unclear. I will send the letter on informing that group as soon as possible, but possibly not before the votes. It concerns monitoring on the basis of the motion submitted by the CDA to monitor the impact of the shift of energy taxation between gas and electricity on the sectors. I will send you information on its implementation in the second quarter or at the end of the first quarter. They're other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u119	The question remains how the Secretary of State is going to address the issue of all those elderly people who have cancelled their rent allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u120	That's what that letter says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u121	What letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u122	The letter I will send as soon as possible, but possibly not before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u123	But when are we gonna get that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u124	As soon as possible, but possibly not before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u125	And how are you going to inform the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u126	That is what I am sending as soon as possible, but perhaps not before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u127	I do not think Mr Omtzigt is satisfied either. Very briefly, because the meeting really ends.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u128	I get that. I understand that it would take quite a few days for the figures on gross post-tax to be on paper, but the explanation on the issue of the elderly, who may still have to take action before Christmas and at least before 1 January, I would simply like to get here and now and not in a letter. We had also put this question in writing: how exactly will these people be informed before 1 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u129	I don't have that answer here right now. So my promise remains that you will receive this information as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u130	Then let me make that commitment. My question is whether this point can be disconnected from the other two. This really is more urgent, because for my group this is of enormous importance. I am not the one who goes to the Ombudsman; that is what those people are going to do. If they find that they miss the rent surcharge of €3,000 in the following year because they had €2 too much savings, while they didn't know the right amount because they received the wrong letter from the Secretary of State, we will have another urgent debate here next year. I'd like to avoid that. So I strongly say...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u131	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u132	Make sure this is taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u133	The letter will come as soon as possible unless I have the answer to this question before the end of this debate. I come to the elders. It is not about this year's Tax Plan, but it is relevant to Mr Krol's speech. There were specific tax advantages for older people: the elderly allowance, the elderly discount, the rate in the first and second discs is different. If there are special arrangements for a special group, you should periodically ask yourself whether you think that group still needs these special arrangements, or whether there is still a basis for them. You may ask yourself that. The cabinet has also asked itself the same question, in connection with the ibo on the elderly. Measures have been taken in different tax plans and periods. Some of these tax advantages have been called into question. Some of them have been phased out for a longer period, others, such as the elderly allowance, have been abolished at some point. And others are still spared. That's not a weird trade-off. For example, we have just received the SCP study, which looked at the standardised disposable income over a period of ten years, the period 2004-2013. The average Dutch household comes from this with an +1. So that means we're just over the water again. We can just breathe with the nose above the water level again. We all just got 1% better compared to ten years ago. On average, but look at the minions. The single people up to 65 -3%, the single-earners without children -1%, the two-earners without children -2%, the single-earners with children - the group to which Mr Dijkgraaf draws attention -4%, the WW'ers - the group to which Mr Bashir draws attention -4%, the elderly +3%. This means that the tax arrangements of older people have changed into very cautious steps. Not by placing older people in a disadvantaged position or lagging behind the average taxpayer, but by treating them more equally. That's not weird, because it's not just about purchasing power development. It is also simply a question of whether parties should be treated equally in terms of taxation. Sometimes, for one group, this means that it goes a little more in purchasing power up or down in order to maintain that fiscal neutrality, but that question may be asked. It is not just the deltas from year to year, it is also tax neutrality. And it's not just the distribution of prosperity, it's also about building prosperity. It is also about the room for the older people of later, the working people of today, to be excited to get to work and to build and finance that pension and that AOW respectively. Today's older people, as well as the older ones, will depend on economic growth and employment rates in working age. So it's not just about dividing that prosperity. What's with this Tax Plan now? Mr Krol stands firm for his supporters, I appreciate that, but the big words he uses and which he may use are about past tax plans. It's about the 2015 Tax Plan and some of it before. But let's take a look at the Tax Plan now. Let's take a look at the 5 billion. As a result, the average Dutch household gains by 1.1% compared to the baseline path, i.e. without the 5 billion. The average Dutch household improves 1.1%, as a result of the 5 billion extra, on top of the basic path. Older people do not advance 1.1% but 1.3%. Older people are leaving in 2016 with a more than proportional share of those 5 billion. But let's also look at the 2016 Tax Plan on what it means for 2016 and 2017. In 2016, due to the elderly discount, due to the second and third disk, due to the box 3 exemption, as a result of the extension of the third disk, will receive 920 million. This goes to older people in 2016, as a result of all these measures, on top of what was the basic path, as a result of that 5 billion. And in 2017, they are making structural progress over the baseline path 450 million. I understand that Mr Krol does not like the basic path, because it happened in those years when he was against it. 50PLUS voted against. I understand, that basic path hasn't become pretty for someone who wants to stand up for the elderly. But this Tax Plan does something positive, it partly repairs it and comes with considerable extra things for the elderly: 900 million, 450 million. So if you're against something, you have to be exactly what you're against. What Mr Krol is opposed to is the tax plans of recent years. I understand that, but now for the first time something positive is happening for the elderly in the Tax Plan. If I were Mr Krol, I could also call it a great success. Certainly against the number of seats of his party, I must congratulate Mr Krol. Yes, there were other owners of this thought; there are a lot of them here. But they did not use the harsh words Mr Krol used. Mr Krol should be proud of what he has achieved in this area together with other groups. I must say that I cannot imagine why Mr Krol would be against this tax plan at all or against this novelle. He was against all the other tax plans, I understand that, but now something positive is happening. And if you don't embrace it if something positive happens, what does that mean for your political influence? I would like to embrace Mr Krol and call on him to vote in favour of this plan, although I understand that he has not done so in the past. But this is the moment. His moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u134	Yes, with regard to the previous plans, older people have indeed improved on them. That's what I started my contribution to. However, only half of them have made structural progress. Not entirely structural, as in all other plans and as in others. The ANBO has recently commissioned research and says that purchasing power for workers decreased by 1.1% over the period 2008-2013 while for post-actives there was 6.2% loss of purchasing power. The gap with the middle income group is even greater: 6.3% for workers and 12.8% for pensioners. The difference is too big. Yes, I'm glad we've taken steps forward. I'm genuinely happy about that. But we really aren't there yet and there is no fair sharing in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u135	Mr Krol's dissatisfaction is direct, one-dimensional and purely traceable to things that have already been. Now there's something in front of him that he's been fighting about and he's been showing off about. If something purely positive happens and he cannot vote for it, I am curious about Mr Krol's political consideration when he can be on board. What's to be done? I listened to him very carefully. He's made his pleas. But now I'm making a plea with verve: I think this is the time to go along with it. But it is up to you, Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u136	I give Mr Krol the opportunity to respond briefly. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State not to challenge the MPs, because we're really running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u137	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u138	I'd be happy if the division was fair, but it still isn't in my eyes. At least make sure that progress is structural, so that we do not have to repair again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u139	The €450 is structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u140	I am annoyed by the answer given by the Secretary of State to Mr Krol's story. Because when I look at the facts, I see something else. I see that older people will get up to €100 next year, while people who earn €60,000 will get €1,000. I don't understand where the Secretary of State gets those numbers. In the end, choices have been made and the Secretary of State has made the choice to allow people who earn €60,000 to advance €1,000, while people with a small pension get up to €100.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u141	Everyone makes their own positions and considerations. So I am not going to interfere with that anymore, after this one-off attempt at persuasion. Mr Bashir's technical question is a reasonable one. What comparison does he make, however? He makes a comparison between the influence of all previous tax plans, which are already established, and this Tax Plan. My point is that what is now before us is only this Tax Plan, and not the previous one. This tax plan has been isolated and has a very positive effect on the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u142	Then the Secretary of State cannot deny that he could also have made other choices, for example to really help the elderly, who have fallen considerably behind in the crisis and also to do something for non-working people to share the burden more fairly. He didn't. You can't separate this from what's on the table right now and what people are branding next year in their wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u143	Repairs have also been carried out on that side. It has been ensured that no groups, e.g. households, come below zero. There has also been a repair of purchasing power in many areas. I am quite sure that Mr Bashir thinks it should have been more. He has said that and I can understand that, but there too, there has been a repair of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u144	We have come to the end of the first term of the Secretary of State. Some colleagues want a second term, most of them do not. Mr Krol has indicated that he wants a very short second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u145	Madam President. According to the 2013 Interdepartmental Policy Survey, older people have in the past had a comparative purchasing power advantage of 8% for pensioners. That relative advantage has now evaporated. I refer again to recent purchasing power research commissioned by the ANBO over the period 2008-2013 and to the Macro Economic Explorations of 2014 and 2015. Then I'm not even talking about the Nibud purchasing power tests of the last few years. Against this background, we still believe that the effects of the 2016 Tax Plan and of this novel are not positive enough for pensioners. Pensioners remain stuck with a structural burden increase of around 250 million from 2017. 50PLUS considers that unfair. We cannot agree with a tax plan and a novella which is a little less unjust but still far from just for pensioners. In principle, we believe that this cabinet should make more work of one of the three pillars that this cabinet claims to be, namely fair sharing. That is why I propose a motion to encourage it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas one of the three pillars of the government agreement of the cabinet is the pursuit of a balanced income ratio ("fair sharing');]] [[calls on the government to focus income policies on an equal purchasing power development for workers, those unable to work and those who have worked,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34360-6]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u146	Mr. Chairman. In the written round we asked the Secretary of State if this Tax Plan, together with the novelle, would make income inequality greater or smaller. The Secretary of State replied that the Central Planning Office writes that the 5 billion package leads to a slight increase in income inequality. He speaks of a slight increase, but I think that an increase of 0.3% is a big increase. This Tax Plan thus creates greater income inequality. If you then look at the effects of the novelle, you can see that there are no additional jobs. According to the Central Planning Bureau, it's zero point zero. Unemployment is even increasing in 2016. In the case of the individual groups, one can only conclude that people who are not working, I am talking about elderly people, people with benefits and chronically ill people who benefit considerably less from the package than those who work, especially those who work and have a high income. With an income of more than €60,000, you will increase €1,000. This Tax Plan increases income inequality. The novelle doesn't change that. I will advise my group to vote against this Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u147	Thank you very much, Mr Bashir. Let me take a look at Mr Van Weyenberg. He doesn't need a second term. Then I come to Mr Klein, who would like a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u148	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this year it was the cabinet's commitment to revise the tax system during this period. We have had a report on this from the Van Dijkhuizen Committee, which was then set aside. Then there was a discussion about how we are going to shape this review. At that time 10 billion was available; 5 billion for actual recovery and 5 billion to see how we can achieve some sweet to acid. We note that there has been nothing of the whole reform policy in the actual reform of our tax system, for example in the case of supplements and the change to a household allowance. It has only remained with a tax plan with 5 billion in gifts and sprinkles. Of course, we are all equally happy about this. Then the taste quickly disappeared, because there is only one vague job perspective. The novelle doesn't add a single job to this. There is no real economic stimulus. The justice that you need in a tax reform, for workers, sole earners, pensioners, benefit recipients and non-employed people, is not reflected in this plan. There is also no improvement in dealing with entrepreneurs and in dealing with the discussion aboutzzp'ers and the tax system. However, I do see a bright spot in these dark days. The cabinet has been rescued by D66 and the CDA and can now proceed neatly. That gives me extra time to work on an alternative, namely a stronger liberal party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u149	Thank you very much, Mr Klein. We have reached the end of the second term of office. I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u150	Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, I only have the motion. She sounds very neutral. We exchanged what's behind this. We have found that the cabinet and the petitioner have different intentions here. I would therefore advise against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u151	This brings us to the end of the debate on the legislative proposal to amend the 2016 Tax Plan. The votes will take place at the beginning of the afternoon meeting tomorrow. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence and input, our Members of Parliament and, of course, all those who have followed the debate. I'm suspending the meeting until 7:35 p.m. You are very late, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u152	I'm still waiting for an answer. The Secretary of State would give that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u153	If possible, he said.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u154	Or a letter as soon as possible, he said. I would like to know when we will get that written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u155	It's been said as soon as possible. This has already been discussed with you in the first term. I had already closed the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u156	I know, as soon as possible. I'd like to know if that's for the weekend. At first it was the first quarter, but it's too late. I'd like to know when. Is that for Christmas? Can the Secretary of State agree to that? Not for me, but for all those old people who are getting into trouble right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u157	I'm gonna check on the Secretary of State. Will you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u158	The urgency has been clearly expressed, with reasons, by Mr Omtzigt. I said as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-tweedekamer-34.u159	That is what we have already discussed in the first term. I think it is clear that you attach great importance to it. I'm still suspending the meeting.
