ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u1	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to be able to speak with you today about this bill, the treaty. I thank the Chamber for the great speed with which it has been made possible, in full awareness that I also thanked you this morning for the discussion of another bill and I hope that I will be able to thank you again for it next week. It is clear that this treaty provides for the possibility for Norway to transfer prisoners to the Netherlands, to Veenhuizen and Hoograven. We help each other with that. The Norwegians have a lack of cells. We have a surplus in capacity at the moment, so we can help each other. That is not a new business model, I answer Mrs Strik immediately. I don't think we're gonna do this more often and start exporting. It's a real possibility. Mrs Wezel has already asked whether we are so smart or if someone else thought of this. This is not something I would think of if we had to build cells to make this possible, but because we have a surplus that is being phased out and in which we are dealing with staff that we also allow it to keep its job a little longer, this is a good method. It has now happened on two occasions. I do not intend to retain cells in the future or include margins in the surpluses or the estimates in order to be for the benefit of other countries. Mrs. Strik asked if this is about the merchant and the reverend. I think this is social responsibility in this context, but we are not going to take on the farmer and do this very comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u3	I think that is the answer to my most important question. I got that impression a little bit because it also mentions that negotiations have been conducted with or that Germany and Switzerland have been sunk. Can the Secretary of State say whether this took place in the same context with regard to the same capacity? Is this off or is this still on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u4	I understand that my predecessor has spoken about this in informal contacts with Germany and Switzerland and that this has not led to formal negotiations or formal talks. I can assure Mrs Strik that during the last 100 days the Secretary of State responsible has not spoken to colleagues, colleagues or ministers from other countries about this. We still have a margin, so if there is an occasional report, we can consider it. However, we are not actively looking for it now. In the two examples mentioned, no conversations continued either. Nor do I think that Mrs Strik did not mention a country, so I am not talking about that. There are no other countries with which we are currently talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u5	Does this mean that the pace of the phasing-out that was planned will simply continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u6	Yeah, the master plan is going through. Mr Markuszower of the PVV Group has asked questions about the number of Dutch people who have been sentenced to a custodial sentence, but who are not serving.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u7	I would like the answer to the question as to who took the initiative in the talks with Germany and Switzerland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u8	With Germany and Switzerland, my predecessor from the Netherlands discussed the option in informal talks. However, no initiative has been launched by either of them to formally address this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u9	Someone invited someone, didn't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u10	There are regular calls. For example, I see all my colleagues and colleagues from the minister, at least the Germans, at the JHA Council every month. In the contacts that exist, this possibility has been addressed. We are also often asked about it. During the period when it was first mentioned, my Belgian colleague was very interested and wanted to know how we did it and why.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u11	The Secretary of State doesn't have meetings with Switzerland every month, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u12	No, I certainly didn't, but that kind of conversation has covered it with my knowledge. However, it has never been followed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u13	I would like to answer my question as to who took the initiative for the discussion, for example for the discussion with Switzerland.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u14	I had understood the question as: who took the initiative to discuss this issue? That has been my predecessor in office. I do not, however, have the courage to take the initiative from our point of view. The PVV asked about the number of outstanding custodial sentences. On 1 May 2015, the case concerned 12,059 cases. It is important to know how this number has been built up. About 10,000 cases, the vast majority of them concern persons with an unknown or foreign address. Often it is also a very short net penalty. They are not people who are waiting at home in the Netherlands and have to go to jail for years. For those 10,000 cases, the vast majority of them, active targeted detection is not possible. If someone is staying abroad, we are also dependent on the cooperation of the country where the person is staying. That country needs to be involved in the search. In many cases, the low level of punishment is a reason for such a country not to use capacity. As far as people residing in the Netherlands are concerned, there is active detection. Those people are also being arrested for serving their sentence. We also have no shortage of cells to serve those people because of the treaty with Norway.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u15	Does the State Secretary say that if you are abroad and you still have to serve a sentence, there is a guarantee that you will never be arrested by the Dutch police and that the Ministry of the State Secretary is not a priority to actively track down those people through, for example, a special investigation service?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u16	No, I didn't say that. Of course, the chance of being caught by a Dutch agent abroad is relatively small, but we are very active in countries when we know where someone is. We then ask for cooperation with such a country to get the person transferred. It is often an important factor in the weighting of the country in question or its own capacity to bet on it. That is the other way around. I think, without a doubt, that, even if someone has to serve three days, he or she has to serve that number of days. In practice, however, in the case of short-term penalties of this kind, cooperation by the country we are asking for cooperation is not seen as a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u17	Thanks for the answer. I counted 2,000 convicted criminals in the Netherlands who are not in prison, but should be in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u18	Those people are registered. There's a BOLO going on, but there's a work stash. We try to get rid of them, because these people have to serve their time. More and more people are also arrested to serve their sentence. Our commitment is to prevent execution. In recent years, we have also seen a reduction in the number of cases which, for this reason, are subject to a limitation. The first effects of the measures in question are thus already evident. Part of this is, among other things, that the procedure between the CJIB and the police has been tightened up and that the execution tasks have been secured by the police base teams. We are also reaping more and more benefits from strengthening the position of the IAC, the information and advice centre for the execution chain. This type of measure leads us to see the first effects when it comes to executing still outstanding penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u19	To refine my first term. The Secretary of State says that there is a positive line, but in the first term I asked what was going on in 2013 and 2014. The Secretary of State just mentioned the number for 2015, namely 12.059, but I can't even distil up or down a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u20	Parliament will soon receive the annual report. It includes the update of these kinds of figures. I don't have the numbers ready right now. Perhaps I can provide that information in the second term. In any case, this shows that fewer cases are dropped by statute of limitations. Those are the first effects, but I'm not saying we're already here. We only see the first effects. That is usually the sign that more effects will occur. Mr Markuszower does not think it is a good signal for the rule of law and trust in criminal justice that people who should serve their sentence do not do so. The principle is that the convict is serving his sentence. If there's a kink in the cable in that respect, that's not good. A sentence must be imposed as soon as possible. That is also the approach of the cabinet, the police and the D.A.'s office. There is indeed room for improvement. I agree with Mr Markuszower. We're working on that, too. Mr Markuszower also linked the Hoekstra Committee. I refer in this respect to the debate tomorrow in the House of Representatives with the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u21	How many cells are there now, as we speak, over? How many cells are available for Dutch prisoners now?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u22	There's hundreds of them. The arrival of Norwegian detainees is not an obstacle to the execution of sentences for anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u23	If there are hundreds of them and there are still 2 000 criminals to be caught in the Netherlands, and 10 000 more abroad, we have a potential cell shortage, don't we? Or am I not counting correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u24	I'm never gonna be given that qualification. All those hundreds or thousands of people who still have to serve time, do not have to do all that for a long time. What if ten people have to sit for another week? That means ten weeks of cell capacity of one cell in a year. Converting all that remains to be done leads to a capacity of several hundred cells in the Netherlands of all those thousands of people, if they all report tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u25	Can the Secretary of State explain how that line works? In my opinion, it's like this. If the judge orders a custodial sentence, doesn't he get the same effect? Or is there a queue?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u26	That's right, but we were talking about the number of people who still have a sentence open and didn't sit down directly. We're actively looking for those people. They're welcome. If they all come forward spontaneously tomorrow, if we can implement the penalties, that does not mean that each person immediately needs a cell for a whole year. I congratulate Mrs Wezel on her maiden speech. It established a link between democracy, the rule of law and the subject we are discussing today. I also felt the dilemma between the principle that each country must implement its punishments and the pragmatism that we are discussing today. The basis of this treaty is pragmatic, because it is not a wish of the Netherlands that countries should regulate the implementation of their sentences with the Netherlands. Mrs Wezel is asking a question about the cell space that has been released. She wants to use them first to execute imposed custodial sentences that have not yet been executed. In principle, I agree with that. I would not propose this treaty if it would delay the execution of sentences imposed by the rule of law on the Netherlands. However, it is not a bottleneck. There is no shortage that requires people to wait for the execution of their sentence, as far as they do. So these two things don't bite each other. Mrs Wezel also asked whether the Netherlands is the only country in the world to do so. As far as we know. Of course, there are forms of cooperation that are not comparable. France and Italy may have made agreements with Monaco and San Marino, but they are of a different order from what we are discussing here. As I said, it is a pragmatic decision to work together with countries with which we work well and in which we have great confidence, including in their rule of law, to make two solutions. That was certainly innovative, I say in reply to Mrs Wezel. She also asked if it's smart. Well, it's not something you're planning, but within the context in which we are sitting, with a surplus and a downgrading, we think it's pretty smart in the cabinet. Is it strange? Literally, yes, in the sense that it's noteworthy. It gets a lot of international attention. In my view, it is not strange in the sense of strange. As I mentioned earlier, I do not find it strange in the sense that I would now like to use a brand and a product commercially. It remains special and I do not intend to ensure that in 15 years' time it will not be special, but quite normal, and that we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u27	How does the Secretary of State explain that we are the only country that has and exploits that cell surplus at all? Is that perhaps because we do not detect enough, so that we do indeed have a cell surplus wrongly?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u28	If the odds aren't 100%, there are people who avoid their punishment for not getting caught. It is not the case that there is a development that you say has fallen, which means that we have a surplus. We've had a temporary shortage. We have done a lot of new construction for that. That also had a lot to do with the problem of puffsuckers. That capacity is not required. We see crime, regardless of chance of taking and that kind of effect, really falling. We will not be the only ones with a surplus, but we have built up a lot, which means that there is now a surplus. We are dealing with this as pragmaticly as possible. If we can maintain employment by means of such treaties, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u29	Does the Secretary of State not see a correlation with a solution rate of only 25 compared to neighbouring countries, for example, at 50%?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u30	Statistics must be comparable. It is not the case that there has been a negative development in the Netherlands. Apart from that, it is mathematically so that if you were to pick up and punish four times as many people, you would also need more cells. I don't have to do my management planning in a world I don't live in. We have the current chance and there are pathways to increase it. Then, too, within the range of capacity we have, I see enough room to facilitate the increase in the chance of being caught, if it occurs, in the execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u31	In my practice as a lawyer, I see that the number of suspects arrested is decreasing. The reason given in practice by people I meet at the police, at the court or at the prosecutor's office is that it is precisely the reorganisation of the police and the cuts in the judiciary that cause a decrease in the number of suspects in criminal matters and thus in the number of inmates.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u32	We also see a reduction in crime in the registrations. That might not be so crazy because of demographic effects. However, I cannot say that I can disprove that sound in a moment. It is, of course, intended that the reorganisations will lead to greater cooperation in the chain and ultimately to a more efficient and better criminal justice chain, more effective detection, a higher chance of taking action and a more effective execution of penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u33	Many cases remain with the police, precisely because of the problem of the reorganisation of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u34	I don't think we've ever had so many cops before. However, I do not deny that the reorganisations can have consequences that affect that process. We hear those sounds and take them seriously. I can't rule it out, but I can't confirm one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u35	I hear the Secretary of State say we've never had so many cops. Can he mention a percentage of the agents who are now "blue on the street" compared to let's say five years ago? Is that also increased or is the number of agents behind the desk increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u36	There are several elements. Allow me to say something about it, in the area of the Minister, who deals with the police. In addition to investments in capacity, quantitatively, there are numerous pathways to reduce the time spent by agents on bureaucracy and more effectively spend their time, including on the detection of crime, but also, of course, on the work that the police do every day on the street and that does not always have to do with the detection of crime. Mrs Wezel also asked whether the Netherlands has the final responsibility. We have a responsibility. It is happening on our territory, so we have a responsibility for that. On the road to this treaty, we are already taking it, firstly, by looking at the country with which we are going. That is Norway: a country in which we have great confidence, also given the way in which human rights are dealt with there and the responsibilities they take in the penitentiary system. We have included the necessary safeguards in the Treaty. We also invest, namely by ensuring that our staff can serve and function properly within that Norwegian system. The Norwegians are primarily responsible themselves, but we will not close our eyes if our signals reach that there are problems. The good experiences with Belgium have shown that they do not occur, but we will not look away.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u37	How desirable do you think it is now for us to offer these cells? You just indicated that there are no more calls. Can you promise that there will now be a line under the lease of cells to other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u38	If I wasn't behind it, I wouldn't be standing here. It's not like I think there's something wrong with it. I don't think it should become a habit either. If we hadn't had cell surplus, but a country had thought "I just think it's more practical when it's out of sight," I wouldn't start a state-owned company to build cells. We do not make any money on this, but we can keep people's jobs. As long as we are still in the phase-out phase and a country is asking whether it can take a little longer, I do not exclude that we will consider it within the framework of these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u39	You say "a country"...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u40	Through the chairman, Mrs. Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u41	The Secretary of State says that the agreements with this country could be extended. So that's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u42	I do not want to imprison anyone, myself or any successors, even in the future. As long as we are in the phase-out phase and have a surplus and we can offer staff a more flexible transition, I am open to this principle. Otherwise, I wouldn't be standing here. I don't take it actively on the farmer. I don't have any walks now either. But I am not fundamentally opposed to what we are doing now. If Belgium or Norway want longer or if another country should come forward, I will consider it. Of course, we are going to cut down, as has been said, so the practical window to do so is going to go down automatically. Mrs Wezel asked if I had any objections to the composition of the prison population. We have made treaty agreements on this by excluding certain categories and by imposing requirements on those who can be transferred. Apart from the demands contained in the treaty, I have no prior involvement. Does it matter to me? If adverse effects do not occur. We will contact the Norwegian Government if these effects are due to their choice of composition. But it's primarily up to the Norwegians to determine who they're sending over. As in Dutch prisons, illegal foreigners will also be present in the Norwegian population.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u43	I allow you to interrupt, Mrs Wezel, but you also have a second term. That is what I said to Mr Markuszower. That's what it's for.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u44	What does the Secretary of State think if Norway were to fill up with illegal aliens?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u45	I didn't categorically rule that out. I don't think it's super much. They are criminals who have been punished through the Norwegian legal system. Without regard to the person, they are prisoners who can be transferred within the agreements we have made on this matter. I don't have a preference for where people originally come from. They're there on the basis of a conviction through Norwegian criminal law. That's enough for me. It is not always enough, but we have made demands. If they meet the Treaty requirements, there is no reason to have a further opinion on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u46	Mr Markuszower, one more Ienimienia interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u47	I'll try. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that these foreigners, asylum seekers in Norway, do not apply for asylum in the Netherlands? The written answer to the questions says there's a two-month lock on it, but that's no guarantee they won't make an application here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u48	Asylum seekers are in an asylum procedure. Criminally convicted persons without a valid residence permit may be transferred after their conviction. Anyone can apply for asylum. We have provided for this through the procedure we are using, so that we can return to Norway. It would also be quite special if it were to succeed, as we regularly transfer people to Norway because they have already applied for asylum and have stayed there. The legal framework prevents surprises and the right to stay here when someone applies for asylum. That is what has been agreed in the Treaty and beyond. I come to Mrs Wezel's question about Epafras' grant. I asked my foreign minister about this because he is primarily involved. As of 1 January there is new policy for Dutch prisoners abroad. That was discussed by the Foreign Affairs Committee in the budget. We have two tracks to do that. We have a list of countries in Europe, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, Japan and Singapore. In those countries there is a so-called basic package for inmate Dutch. New prisoners are visited, magazines are made available and, if they need them, they can be visited by volunteers in the context of resocialisation. If an inmate is in a critical situation where action is necessary, the starting point is that the Dutch embassy addresses the local authorities. If that has no effect, it will be scaled up in diplomatic traffic. In other parts of the world where Dutch people are detained, there is a wider package and there is more guidance. This involves more visits, up to four times a year, and additional care. That can be social or mental care. There is also a subsidy available for this. Reclassification The Netherlands also has a role in this, which is new, namely to use volunteers in the field of care in addition to resocialisation to reduce the stress of inmates and to remedy problem situations. The State Department's subsidy to Epafras has indeed been discontinued. That had to do with the more limited network, geographically and quantitatively, that they could offer. They have objected to this. We await the outcome of that objection and we shall, if necessary, look into it further. A question has also been asked about the transfer of Dutch prisoners abroad because they have broken the law and have been sentenced there. We receive requests: in 2011: 246, in 2012: 346, in 2013: 247 and in 2014: 277. It varies from country to country. It begins with the need of the inmate himself. He has to apply for it himself, and we are cooperating in it. The number Mrs Wezel mentioned from around 250 a year is correct. That's true now, too. The Netherlands has limited influence on this. The state where a person is detained must cooperate in the transfer, but that is often the bottleneck. This also has to do, for example, with the fact that the remainder of the sentence would be too small. We're doing that effort, but we don't have the experience that it's on our side. We cannot unilaterally decide that transfer should be carried out. That's why we're on that 250. However, concluding a treaty with the Norwegians will not lead to a lack of capacity which would prevent us from facilitating any WOTS requests on those grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u49	For you, too, Mrs Wezel.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u50	I would like the Secretary of State to answer my question; he now repeats what he wrote in the reply. I asked, among other things, how many people have applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u51	Those are the numbers of the incoming requests I mentioned earlier. In 2011: 246, in 2012: 346, in 2013: 247 and in 2014: 277. Those are the Wots requests that came to us. That's what I have now. Mr Markuszower asked whether there was a trend in custodial sentences that were not implemented by execution. Earlier, I had to keep the answer to him. Before I mention a whole series of numbers, let me start with the percentages. In 2010, we were at 16.8%. This increased to 18.2% in 2011. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, we see a steady decline. In 2014, we're at 8.8%. We are therefore seeing a reduction in the number of custodial sentences that execution cannot implement. However, that is still a number that we want to avoid. We are therefore working hard to reduce this even further. I have answered all the questions, hopefully adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u52	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u53	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Secretary of State for replying. I had already indicated in my first term that I had no objection in principle to the current agreement. I didn't have any questions about that. However, I have made it clear that I do not think the principle is desirable and that it is preferable for people to serve time in their own countries. The Secretary of State has reassured me in the sense that he has indicated that this is for now, because we have a temporary opportunity to make that capacity available. There's no dialogue at the moment, as the Secretary of State points out. That too is very nice to hear. I would just like to get confirmation from the Secretary of State that, should a dialogue be initiated with a particular country, we will be informed of this earlier, and not only when a proposal for a law on approval comes to us. I would like to be able to discuss this with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u54	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering the questions. The Secretary of State reported our Chamber that there are more agents than ever. I would like to receive a specification of the number of agents that qualified as "blue on the street" in 2010 and in 2015. I also like to get the percentages of "behind the desk" versus "blue on the street" in 2010 and in 2015. I cannot escape the impression that if the safety chain were organized differently, we would now have a cell shortage. Does the Secretary of State guarantee that there are no net costs to the operation we're talking about today? I am also thinking of costs that are not so much related to staff or the direct costs of prison, but also costs in other departments or in other chains, such as asylum applications. If asylum applications are made, they will cost. The same applies to escapes; there was also a mention in the written explanation. Does the Secretary of State guarantee that all net costs, including civil servants' time, will be passed on to the Norwegians? Or is there, if we calculate correctly, somewhere to find a loss in this operation? If that's the case, will you update your plans? And you'll let us know? In conclusion, how does the Secretary of State explain to the citizens of the Netherlands that there are 12,000-plus criminals out there, both in the Netherlands and abroad, while he gives away our cells to Norwegians?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u55	Mr. Chairman. We welcome the Secretary of State's comprehensive response to the questions. The Secretary of State has once again expressed his views. He made this choice for reasons of the number of cells, the lack of money and employment. For the SP, it is important for the Secretary of State to state more clearly that this is an exception and that he does not go to the farmer to rent out cells. We see the good intentions of the Secretary of State, but in our opinion a standard has been exceeded. The Minister will explain again about the execution. There has been no clear answer to the question of why the number of prison sentences is decreasing, while the execution is also decreasing. As regards the acquisition of prisoners abroad, the State Secretary indicates that the number of applications is around 250, but the figures show that the number of acquisitions is. Does the Secretary of State still want to explain that? For the SP it is still too thin at the moment. The Secretary of State says it must remain an exception. If he promises that this will be the last time that cells are rented out, the SP will want to think about this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u56	I see the Secretary of State has the opportunity to answer directly. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u57	Mr. Chairman. That was, of course, a lock that included a tempting offer. Mrs Strik also pointed out that I should at least let the Chamber know if a new dialogue is to take place. I'm not going to initiate a new dialogue. I'm not gonna say to other countries, "Oh, man, I still have cells left, are you interested?" That's not how it is. I don't expect it to happen again, but I just don't like to rule things out categorically. I would like to discuss this with the Chamber and inform Parliament early. Of course, I'm not gonna do that until the only substance is started. Next week, when I meet a minister who asks about it, I'm not going to send a letter, like: someone asked for it. I don't expect it. We're just going to continue to better align the capacity that we have and the need that there is and the forecasts of what we need. We're not gonna slow that down, either. We have plans for that. For the future policy and the choices we make, too, we will have them play a major role for a reason. Mr Markuszower asked how I explained that to the citizen. Here's what I'm gonna explain. If I don't let the Norwegians come, it won't put any extra person on the list of people who still have to serve time. There's no one waiting for a place because we couldn't place that person. The decisive reason is usually that we don't know where the person is. So there's no connection. I am not helping the execution of the punishments of those people by not concluding this treaty, while, if I do, I am helping more than 200 people to keep their jobs in the future, for the duration of the treaty. That's how I explain it. It is up to each group to see whether it shares that weighting or not. There has been talk of net costs. Those are guarantees I can't deal with. We do not have an agreement that we will calculate up to the penny what we are spending on this, not even on the treatment of this today, and that we will pass that amount on to the Norwegians. That is not how we treat each other as countries, nor do the Norwegians have a claim to pass their costs on to us if this treaty is rejected here today. It is not two companies that deal with each other in this way. I can't guarantee that. There are still questions about the WOTS figures. Those are the requests we are familiar with. This is what comes in to us and we always look at it with a positive mentality, but it often sticks earlier. Such a request must be made in the end, including with the cooperation of the country asking for it. I do not now have time to make a request in how many cases it is no longer possible to make a request in the portal. There could be a difference. However, it is not the case that we are going to have to cut back on what is ultimately being asked. However, there are bottlenecks to make a request at all. These bottlenecks are often outside the control of the Dutch government. We can't take it away often. We can try, but it does not always lead to another decision of the country where a prisoner resides. Mrs Wezel asked for a categorical promise. I'm not gonna do that entirely, but this is an exception and I'm not gonna go with it. Nor are we maintaining the capacity to make that possible in the future. That capacity will be reduced. I don't expect it to happen more often. Should a country ask for it and it would be serious, I will report it to Parliament at an early stage. I am anxiously waiting for any votes to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u58	The Secretary of State owes me another answer. I understand he can't give that so quickly, given the figures behind it. Perhaps he can promise this Chamber to send us that reply in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u59	It was a question about the police. How many cops are there and what exactly are they doing? In response, I would like to refer to the budget and to the information provided by the Minister of Security and Justice on the National Police. This kind of information can also be found in the police budget itself. That's what we report on. The House already has that information and would like to refer to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u60	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote directly on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u61	Mr. Chairman. We would like to have some discussion in our group. Could that vote, for example, be on the agenda later today? So it is today, because that's what we agreed on, but later. The sitting does not need to be suspended for us now either, but we would like to discuss in the group what we are doing. We liked the Secretary of State's reasoning more than we had anticipated in advance, I'll say.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u62	I would like to ask the SP colleague how long that discussion will take and when he intends to proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u63	In a moment, the debate on the association agreements will continue. It could be after that. We can also suspend for five minutes, but I do not feel that Mr Kox will be ready in five minutes. The resumption of that debate is scheduled to take place at 5.10 p.m. Can you bear with the fact that we are voting at 5.10 p.m., so just before we proceed with the debate on the association agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u65	Then I am very grateful to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-06-30-eerstekamer-10.u66	Well, that's clear. The vote on legislative proposal 34178 will take place shortly before the resumption of the debate on the association agreements, so to speak, at 5:09 p.m. I'll leave the bell ringing. That's one long bell; just so you know.
