ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u1	Mr. Chairman. We need to shut down the power stations. That is the most sensible thing we have to do from an environmental point of view. That's why the energy transition is screaming. What happens now? A new coal power plant is being built and put into operation at the Wadden Sea, which alone will emit as much mercury as the entire Dutch energy sector combined. We think that's the wrong route. The Secretary of State also sees her decision challenged in court. We think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to do something about this huge mercury pollution. In the Netherlands alone, research shows that 42,000 babies with too much mercury live in the blood. The Secretary of State knows what a dangerous substance it is. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the new RWE/Essent coal power plant at the Eemshaven near Delfzijl emits large quantities of toxic mercury (and in the Wadden Sea) which almost doubled the total mercury emissions from Dutch plants;]] [[noting that it was agreed at European level to minimise mercury emissions as quickly as possible and then to reduce them to zero;]] [[noting that emissions of highly toxic mercury can be reduced easily and quickly by, for example, technical adjustments to the installation of the coal power plant;]] [[noting that the current authorisation is based on outdated rules and may need to be strengthened;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that mercury emissions from the coal power plant are substantially reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29383-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u2	I would add that it is our preference that the Secretary of State should actually adjust the permit. But if she can argue that this is not possible at the moment, I would like to hear what she is doing to make mercury reductions possible, until there is a time when the permit can be modified.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u3	Mr. Chairman. It is very good that the old coal plants in the Netherlands are closed down. However, this is linked to the agreement that the remaining coal plants will be exempted from the coal tax. This amount, almost EUR 200 million, will then have to be raised by consumers, both households and businesses. It is important for my group that we know for sure that we are paying no more than the costs of shutting down the power stations. These costs must be reimbursed by the government if it intervenes in a business sector, but of course the companies do not have to make a profit. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Energy Agreement provides for exemption from the coal tax of coal-fired power plants in connection with the early closure of five coal-fired power stations in the 1980s;]] [[Whereas it is important to know whether the costs incurred by undertakings by closing coal-fired power stations are proportionate to the costs of exempting coal-taxes, since the same amount must now be paid by energy consumers;]] [[Calls on the Government to calculate costs incurred by companies by early closure of coal power plants and to forward the results to the Chamber, possibly confidentially due to the company's data, for the summer of 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Veldhoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29383-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u4	Is the D66 Group in favour of maintaining the requirement for returns and for their explicit involvement in the evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u5	D66 considers it important that, on the basis of the efficiency requirement we are now setting up, some of the really old coal plants, the 'old dirty bins', we should say, go out. I am curious about the European legal test, because the differences between the coal plants from the 1980s and those from the 1990s are not so great. All of these seem to me to be things that we should involve in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u6	Mr. Chairman. The amendment of the Activity Decision is the result of the agreement of the Energy Agreement to phase out the five oldest and most polluting coal plants in the Netherlands. Because, of course, it has legal hooks and eyes to do so immediately, the efficiency requirements have now been imposed. The old power stations are not able to meet this requirement, as opposed to the new and cleaner ones. After a period of five years, it shall be reviewed whether the return requirement is still necessary. The Secretary of State stated in the written round of questions that it was not obvious to tighten up measures in the future or to evaluate them earlier. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the assessment in five years' time will have to focus only on the intended effect, namely the closure of these five plants. I'd like to receive a commitment from the Secretary of State on the point that we're going to test very lean-and-mean. They're closed, yes or no? It is important for us to be aware of the fact that we are not going to evaluate the five years that we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u7	This brings to an end the term of office. The Secretary of State states that she cannot react at the same time. That's why I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u8	Mr. Chairman. Two motions have been tabled and one question has been asked. I'll start with the motion in part No. 238 which calls on the government to reduce mercury emissions. The licence for the RWE coal power plant was issued by the province. Enforcement is also taking place there. I advise against this motion. The request for information in the motion in part No. 239 is still off with my colleague Camp. That was also the reason why the suspension took a little longer. The answer will follow soon, I understand. I therefore assume that Mrs Van Veldhoven will continue the motion. If not, I'll have no choice but to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u9	Maybe there's another intermediate mode. Can the Secretary of State state state whether that information will be available for the vote on Thursday? I fully understand that this Secretary of State cannot answer the question now. But if the information can come by Thursday, I don't have to hold the motion. After all, it was held until Thursday's votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u10	There sounds a liberating yes to someone from that particular ministry. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u11	Fantastic. Then the motion can just be put to the vote on Thursday and then we expect a letter on it before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u12	I've given my verdict: Hold on, or I'll advise against the motion. The answer comes from my colleague, because the question was there too. However, I would like to say this because I have no idea what Mrs Van Veldhoven has discussed with my colleague before.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u13	But the judgment of the ruler who deals with it will then be in the letter. So I assume that the Secretary of State is neutral about it, because she actually leaves the judgment to her colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u14	You look at me questioning, Madam Secretary of State, but the answer is yours!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u15	That makes it complicated for me. I would ask my colleague to formulate the answer in such a way that the answer to the motion is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u16	Perhaps then it would be wise to do it together. Then it's all clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u17	I'm a little surprised the Secretary of State is wiping my motion right off the table. I said in my introduction that, as far as we are concerned, it would be preferable to amend the licence. I can imagine, however, that the Secretary of State finds that a little complicated. I will therefore leave the Secretary of State the room to ensure that mercury emissions are substantially reduced. This Secretary of State acknowledges that mercury is a huge environmental problem. Now, however, there is a coal power station that is going to emit almost as much on its own as the whole energy sector combined, and the Secretary of State does not even want to start a simple call to perhaps take something from it. I can't rhyme with that. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u18	Mrs Ouwehand's wording that it is a little complicated for me to obtain the authorization of the coal power plant is interesting. It is true; it is not only complicated, it is also organized differently in democracy. It is the province's task, and the States are watching it, as are the enforcement of the licence. I understand Mrs Ouwehand's purpose and wish, but I do not think that this is the right place to do so. I therefore continue to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u19	I'm not just asking for the route of adjusting the permit. I'd prefer that, but if I can't, I can't. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to explore other possibilities, but she also says she does not really want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u20	The tension is high with Mrs Ouwehand. I would be happy to understand that, but the permit and the emissions are matters of the province and I want to leave them there as well. Mr Dijkstra asked a question about the assessment in five years' time. He says that only the intended effects are looked at: are they closing, yes or no, and can't they before? In the energy agreement it was agreed that a test of the efficiency requirements will be carried out on 1 July 2017. So yes, there will be an earlier test, but that is also the agreement we made in the SER energy agreement. In response to the question of closure in five years' time, it is considered whether the return requirements are still in line with the policy. That is a commitment made by my colleague, Mr Kamp. So there will be a double test. That is what has been agreed, and it is therefore transparent in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u21	I am satisfied with this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-28-tweedekamer-29.u22	Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Thursday.
