ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. I am glad to ask this question, especially since there are some very nice elementary school students from Wageningen present; I would like to welcome them here. The Secretary of State wants to save as much as 20 million euros on early and pre-school education in larger and large municipalities. This cut not only means that all investments made in the quality of early and early school education (vve) in recent years will be cancelled, but also that, for example, in a city like Amsterdam, 3,000 children will no longer be able to receive the pre-school education they are now receiving. For all municipalities together, it is more than 10,000 children. In 2012, all kinds of agreements were made between the cabinet on the one hand and the educational field and the other organisations involved on the other regarding improving early and early childhood education, precisely because every child should have the opportunity to develop optimally. That starts at a very young age. If we don't do it right there, it's gonna go wrong. These are very vulnerable children. Language disadvantage is only one of their many problems; often they also have problems at home or other problems. Moreover, the investments made in pre-school education are paying off. That's what the inspection confirmed. It cannot be the case that we are now going to cut back on the vve, while important steps have been taken. For D66, every child is important; this also applies to the children in the smaller municipalities. The Secretary of State actually plays municipalities against each other over the backs of vulnerable children. Is the Secretary of State prepared to refrain from this austerity in the larger and larger cities? Is he prepared to look at other budget resources to also meet the needs of vulnerable children in small municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science to answer these questions, under the watchful eye of a very proud father who sits in the room and occasionally looks up to that classroom Mr Van Meenen talked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the entire D66 group has a special project today, because Mr Van Meenen is not the only father I saw proudly walk across the Binnenhof today. Mr Pechtold is also such a proud father, who occasionally looks at the public gallery, where his daughter's class sits. We are going from education in general to the education of young toddlers, in particular language education. First of all, let me take away the misunderstanding of austerity. That's not the point at all. Each year, we spend some 360 million in early and pre-school education to eliminate language disadvantages, but it is good to check once in a while where that money ends up and whether there is reason to reconsider the distribution that has been established in the past. The situation has actually grown so that the big cities get much more money because there are many more disadvantaged students living there. They also receive much more money per disadvantaged student than the municipalities around them. Let me give you an example. A disadvantaged student in Rotterdam receives twice as much funding as a disadvantaged student in Spijkenisse. A disadvantaged student in The Hague receives twice as much funding as a disadvantaged student on the other side of the municipal border, in Rijswijk. The question is, is that fair? They're looking into that right now. The cabinet has not yet taken a final decision on it, but I think it would be good to look at it again in all reasonable terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u4	I'll let the Secretary of State keep everything under review, as long as he doesn't do this. It is good to hear that no cabinet decision has yet been taken. I would say to the Secretary of State: do not do that either, if you want to keep the Chamber or at least the D66 Group friendly. The differences in funding will undoubtedly also have to do with the differences in problems between large and smaller cities, but then my group's reaction would be to increase funding in smaller cities rather than removing money in places where it is very well spent. Look also, if it has to be done, to other sectors of education. Up to and including HBO, we are spending money on combating backlogs, while the most effective way to combat backlogs is to prevent them. That happens at a very young age. Hence my question to the Secretary of State, once again, whether he is prepared to do away with this austerity or to cut back on certain cities, and also to look at, if he wants to meet the small municipalities, which my group would also like to see, how he can put in another way in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm not interested in that for the time being, because I think you should also look at the problem. If municipalities succeed, and that is the effectiveness of the policy of reducing the number of disadvantaged students, I think that you should eventually include this in the distribution of the money. We see that it is happening in the big cities and that fewer and fewer disadvantaged students are there. We now stick to the old numbers from 2009. I do not think it is very strange to look at the distribution of disadvantaged pupils in the Netherlands and to review that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u6	It is factually incorrect what the Secretary of State says. There are no fewer students who are lagging behind. This is only the case in the very narrow definition, which is based only on the level of education of parents. For example, if we look at all the children from Central and Eastern European countries, who are mainly in large cities, there is no extra weight regulation to combat the language disadvantage these children do have. My question to the Secretary of State is, firstly, whether he wants to refrain from the austerity, secondly, if he does not want to, to write a letter to the Chamber explaining exactly why it should be this austerity and, thirdly, to look at the definitions used. There is a problem, however, that we get the message from all the large municipalities in the very narrow definition, which is based solely on the level of education of parents. The problem in the major cities is increasing rather than decreasing, but this is not reflected in these definitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u7	Again, there is no question of a cut in the budget. We are looking at how we can distribute the money as fairly as possible between municipalities, so that all the municipalities in the Netherlands, not only the big cities but also medium-sized cities, are able to teach the disadvantaged pupils in the municipality language before they go to school, so that they do not get off to a false start. Maybe now it's disproportionately divided. I think it's good to keep this under review again. We can, of course, always look at the definition of "adults'. At the moment we are looking at the level of education of parents, but it has also been noted a number of times in this Chamber that we do not have a better measure at present than this one which says something about the backwardness of pupils. It is very difficult for children of 2 years of age to determine what the real disadvantage is, because then you would have to test. I think that's a very complicated thing. That's why we're looking at how many disadvantaged students there are in a congregation. That is a good indication of the problems there.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u8	The problems of learning disadvantage in large cities are still extensive and acute. This weekend, on behalf of the Labour Party, I informed you that we need to look at additional resources rather than shifts. I ask the Secretary of State to really look at opportunities that are not at the expense of vulnerable children with learning or development disadvantages, but to really look at extra money, for example from the 500 million for education. If a particle cannot go to the base, that would be very unfortunate, because good education starts from the base.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u9	Of course, we can always have a broad look, but there is no money machine in the Ministry of Education so that we can print something more. So it has to come from somewhere else. The educational gap is 360 million per year, which is about €6,000 per disadvantaged student per year. That's a lot of money. Then it is not surprising to see for a moment once in a while whether the way we distribute it in the Netherlands is still the way that does justice to the problems that occur in municipalities. We can see that the problems in some municipalities are getting a bit worse, but they are still getting a very high level of funding. We also see municipalities which do have a very big problem, but which are still at a low level of funding. That's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u10	The CDA is surprised that the Secretary of State has indicated that he wants to take money away from the big cities for the policy to avoid language disadvantages, because it was the Buma motion that was adopted by this Chamber in 2011 that called on the government to let that money end up in those big cities. What has happened in dealing with these linguistic disadvantages in the major cities, which the Secretary of State believes is no longer necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u11	I think it is always good to see whether the money is being distributed fairly in the Netherlands and where the disadvantaged students really are. In 2010 it was chosen to give the big cities more money per disadvantaged student to get them to sprint and bring them to that level earlier. That project would run until the end of 2015. That is why we are now reviewing this. I myself am a little confused by the position of the CDA, which is always talking about the Randstad Cabinet. Now we look at whether the resources between the big cities and the rest of the Netherlands are well distributed and then the weather is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u12	It is, of course, a good thing that this Secretary of State indicates that the money must be distributed fairly, but in my view it is also clear that we are dealing with linguistic disadvantages in the major cities and that this model was chosen at the time. If that has already led to the result that those language disadvantages are partly overtaken by the investment of successive Cabinets, is the Secretary of State not afraid that he is going to throw away the child with the bath water by this measure? And is he willing to include this in his review?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u13	We are still looking carefully at what it should look like. It's not like we're taking the money all the way from the big cities now. It's about small differences, it's about a recalibrate. I am convinced that this will enable us to maintain the quality of pre-school education in the big cities, but that we can also give medium-sized municipalities the room for funding that goes with it, in order to give the disadvantaged pupils the pre-school education they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u14	I too would like to ask a question about this. Over the past year, the Court of Auditors has examined the system behind the backlogs. As far as we are concerned, we have also stressed this point in the budget debate and indicated that, as far as we are concerned, the level of education of parents is no longer a good measure. There would still be research into what that measure would be. I haven't heard from the Secretary of State about that. Maybe he'd like to tell us something about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u15	That research is ongoing, it will follow later in the year, but that is not related to this discussion, because if you base it on another measure, you will have to deal with a redistribution issue. Research has also been carried out in the past on whether there are alternatives to parental education. Once again, it was concluded that this may not be the most ideal indicator, but that there is no better indicator. That is the way in which we are divided at the moment and we are seeing a huge distortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Van Meenen, you have a follow-up question to your own question?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yeah, that's pretty exceptional, but it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u18	Yeah, that's true, that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u19	This is a very special argument from the Secretary of State, because he actually says that the criteria are inadequate, but that it is precisely those criteria that lead him to the conclusion that there are fewer disadvantaged children and that you can therefore cut short in the big cities. That's not my question. I have already asked for a letter from the Secretary of State in which he supports precisely why this austerity is justified in his view. I'd like to hear from him if he's gonna send us that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Van Meenen and the rest of the Chamber receive not only a letter but a rather comprehensive evaluation of the OKE Act which entered into force in 2010. This evaluation shows the quality of the G37 and beyond, and shows great differences which may have something to do with the imbalance in funding. Once the cabinet has taken a position on how to deal with these funds after 2015, the Chamber will receive from us that letter and the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u21	In that letter are the answers to the questions that Mr Van Meenen has just asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u22	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-04-14-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you for your comprehensive answers. Thank you for coming to the Chamber.
