ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday it became known that processed meat, i.e. sausages, hamburgers, sandwich sausages and all kinds of meat products that Dutch people like to eat frequently, received the qualification "category 1." This means, in the World Health Organisation's ranking, that these meat products are proven to be carcinogenic. At the same time, they fall into the same category as asbestos and smoking. Much less dangerous than asbestos and smoking, so the reaction has been similar in the Netherlands, but at the same time they are qualified as proven carcinogenic. The PvdA considers it important that people can eat healthy and be well informed about what is on the shelves of the supermarkets and about what belongs to the daily food package of many people. In fact, of course, we want it to be non-carcinogenic. What can VWS do to inform people about this? As we have all seen, the food industry lobby started to say that there are also many good substances in those meat products. Of course, that is true, but of course it leads to confusion among the people. The question of the PvdA is therefore what VWS can do about good information. When is the Food Centre going to say anything about that? The second question is what we can do, so that the meat industry itself will ensure that these meat products come from that category 1 of carcinogenic substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have also taken note of the WHO International Agency for Cancer Research report on the carcinogenic properties of red meat and processed meat. The IARC allocates processed meat, e.g. bacon, knakwurst, salami, etc., as carcinogenic and red meat as likely carcinogenic to humans. The assessment is based in particular on studies on the relationship with colon cancer. Evidence of causality with other types of cancer is less strong. By the way, this information is not new. The IARC report is in line with the results of previous research. The results support the current advice of the Food Centre to alternate meat with other protein sources, such as fish, egg, meat substitutes and legumes. So this is about the nuance. When you say it's equal to tobacco, you have to point out that a cigarette is always bad. Here's the nuance: how much do you eat from something and how often do you eat something? The much attention paid to this report shows that nutrition and health live with people, but every week there is something different in the newspaper about this. I think it is important that consumers are not left in confusion and therefore I look forward to the good nutrition 2015 guidelines that the Health Council will publish in the coming week, namely on 4 November. The current state of the relationship between nutrition and disease will be described in full terms. So that goes wider than just the relationship with cancer. The relationship with other diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases, is also discussed. The 2015 Good Nutrition Guidelines are the basis for me, but above all for the Food Centre, to see what the latest insights mean for food advice to consumers. The Nutrition Centre will therefore translate the guidelines of the Health Council into the new five-piece in the coming months. That is important, because then you not only have the fear stories in the newspaper, but also a good translation of what is healthy food now, when, how much and to what extent. As a citizen, you get a perspective of action. By means of a campaign, consumers will be informed about the new opinions on the new five-year drive in 2016. For example, the Food Centre helps consumers to choose healthier.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you for these answers. Thank you for an answer in the near future. I really disagree about whether these are scary reports in the newspaper. I believe that the WHO has published a fairly objective study, carried out by the Dutch on the basis of 700 or 800 studies and has classified processed meat in category 1 as carcinogenic. So I don't find anything scary about that. That is not scary either, it is an objective definition of the WTO. If we can no longer trust the objective data from WTO investigations, I think that is an important starting point. I'm happy with good public information. I also like that there is a campaign attached to it. But what can the food industry do now? It's nice that people themselves become resilient and get less carcinogenic substances in, but what you would like, of course, is that these foods are not, or less, carcinogenic in themselves. Can the Minister discuss other steps with her colleagues in the cabinet on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u4	I do not doubt the accuracy of these investigations and the findings. That's a misconception. I am saying that these observations are confirmed in other studies and that they are not new. But I'm worried that people read a lot about food in the paper. One day it's cow's milk, the other time it's carbohydrates or gluten and another time it's meat. What can you do with it when you read that there is a relationship between red meat and probable carcinogenicness? Soon the Health Council will come up with other relationships. How do you make up that puzzle, so now you're replacing this meat and is that healthy? That is why I think it is important that we translate this into the five-piece so that people really know what to do with it and can actually choose what is healthy for them. How do you get that meat less carcinogenic? I don't have the answer to that. That is an answer that we should ask of those same scientists. Because I don't know what triggers one in the other. So I will put that question back to the researchers because I cannot make that connection and therefore I do not know what I should do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u5	Nor have I asked what the Minister himself should do from VWS, but I do think it is important that there should be consultation within the cabinet, for example with those responsible for food safety within Economic Affairs, to see if we could take a step in the offensive sphere. This is the same as for salt. We know salt isn't necessarily unhealthy, but if you get too much of it, it's unhealthy. The Minister is working with her colleagues to achieve a reduction in salt. One might think that in the manufacture of processed meat you can also reduce carcinogenic substances.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u6	I'm getting an opinion from the Health Council next week. I'm not going to anticipate that. I don't know exactly what the Health Council is advising me either. In the meantime, I know that we have briefly concluded that it gives an opinion that does not stick in the air. Red meat is red meat. If there's a probable relationship, it's like salt. This means that you have to make moderate use of salt and therefore also of this kind of meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u7	Mrs Wolbert has said quite a story here about all the fear that comes from this news. In the documents I see that one of the researchers even says that red meat is probably carcinogenic, as the Minister said, and that there is no reason to panic. I also read in the underlying documents that 940 products have been investigated, of which only the jogging pants did not contain carcinogenic substances. I would like to know from the Minister whether she also believes with the VVD that the consumer can end up putting together his food package on the basis of the five-pack, instead of letting go of all kinds of directives and legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u8	I was not going to let go of directives and legislation on this. Here's what I'm gonna do. If scientific research proves anything, I have no judgment on this, except that there are so many studies now that indicate that you should eat moderate meat, that I think that the translation should be done in the five-piece. We have the Health Council. That's where our experts are, giving advice on it. We'll make the disc of five. It is not an obligation for every Dutchman to eat according to the disc of five. It is a hand to the people who say: I want to eat healthy, let me take a look at that disc of five. One day you eat a meatball, the other day you eat a vegetarian. Then you do everything with moderation. I think you'll come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-10-27-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you for your answers, for your advice on this matter and for coming to the Chamber.
