ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u1	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Chamber for its contribution yesterday. I think everyone has seen that the discussion about the Tax Plan in the First Chamber is about something. It is a question of income relationships, of the principle of carrying capacity and of the tax treatment of two-earners versus one-earner, the concept of fiscal neutrality being interpreted by this Chamber in two different ways. It's about burden-sharing and the course of life. It is about the need for greater reform. All this was served with more detailed questions and various suggestions. I'm gonna try to do justice to all the members. However, since I am standing directly in front of the President, I cannot avoid keeping the pace and doing so within the time allowed. Here's what I want to do. First, I should like to comment briefly on the comments on the reforms. I would like to discuss the commitment of the 5 billion, also in relation to the one- and two-earners and the elderly. I want to discuss the job effect, also in relation to the comments on the CPB. Then I'll go through box 3 to the municipal tax area. Then I come to greening, international taxation and questions about the Wbso and the merger with the RDA. Then there are some more detailed questions. A number of questions have also been asked about the process surrounding this Tax Plan. This means that I do not go into a number of issues either. These are questions that are not really related to the Tax Plan, or even to taxation. I really want to leave those questions to my fellow executives, not only because this will provide better quality answers, but also because it fits better in time. These are comments on climate finance, non-fiscal greening measures, ETS, AOW, refugees, the Justice budget, gas extraction, emancipation, the budget of development cooperation and behavioural incentives for sustainability. I must leave all these questions to colleagues. Before I start, I want to do an unusual thing. From this point on, I should not say it, but I do: I would like to thank my colleagues in the Ministry of Finance very much. They have had an extremely difficult year. They have made an exceptional effort. This was a heavy year for the people who usually do this and still do so with great pleasure and commitment. It's done with respect and pleasure. Let me give you an example: 50PLUS alone has asked almost 250 questions. Again, they were answered with respect and pleasure, but the answers were 62 pages. The employees are exhausted, transported horizontally home and can't say porridge anymore. We have tried to answer all the questions that were answerable. However, one of them remained. We have simply failed to make an international overview of Ib differences between workers and the elderly. That is not going to work in a few weeks, because that requires a whole study. We should actually ask the OECD. It is a very interesting subject, by the way. So the question is not a bad word, but we really can't. I would also like to say that I have to be sad about a number of requests to speed things up that have already started. Mrs. Sent is asking for good reasons to speed up the investigation around box 3. I really have to disappoint her in that regard. I can't give an assurance about the possibility of avoiding box 3 before the summer. As far as start-ups are concerned, she is asking for acceleration. I'm gonna try. That should be possible; I have discussed it. The study on the principle of carrying capacity simply does not fit in with it anymore. That does not mean that we are not going to discuss this, because it is an extremely interesting and important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u2	When can we expect the proposals that cannot reach us before the summer recess? Then it's box 3 and the possibility of circumvention.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u3	I have already promised that I will try to include them in next year's Tax Plan wherever possible. This could mean that the results are not quite ready. On box 3, I promised a mid-term report on the direction of thinking and the possibilities, and on the question of which chain partners it could be how fast. However, this is not yet a complete plan on how real returns are taxed in box 3. That means that next year we have some things to discuss in this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u4	Just for the record, the interim report will reach us at the same time as the Tax Plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u5	Yeah, that's the idea. Mr Van Rij expressed his deep regret that it did not come to a reform this year. Mr Ester asks whether the ambition is still in place and Mr Backer asks whether this is a prelude or an overture. A comprehensive review remains necessary. Whether we take major steps in this or not, it remains necessary. The sketch was there last year with Princess Day, but as I said during the General Financial Reviews, there were just too few parties left at the table. There was a broad support and behind the scenes there was great support, but for the cameras it is always more precarious and need atmosphere, timing and momentum just knock. It just didn't. It is, of course, hopeful that Mr Ester's party remained at the table, that Mr Backer's party has made an attempt and has also received assurances from the government to actually work out things and that Mr Van Rij does not fail to stress that it is really time for a major reform. That support is exactly the kind of support I need. Major reforms will never succeed at once. If you don't start it, it's never gonna work, and if you do, you just have to hang on. My point has always been that Dutch politics over the years has proven to be able to carry out necessary reforms over and over again. That alone makes us one of the most prosperous countries in the world. The members of the First Chamber in particular can make an important contribution to the support for the necessary reforms. Reforming in this political climate only succeeds with a great deal of support, and that is your shoulders. Here is the democratic bottleneck and your shoulders are needed. My appeal to the Chamber is about the same as the call she makes to me: let us continue, if necessary step by step. I would ask everyone not to get off the table too quickly and not to count on it to pull everything in one go. The wishes for this are now too contradictory. I am always trying to set a good example to stay optimistic and maintain a good mood. Some courtesy helps, too. Yesterday I noticed that reflection is also accompanied by a firm choice of words, but I trust that you will always find each other according to good Dutch tradition when it is really necessary to carry out the necessary reforms. In this respect, I would like to appoint you as my ally. The wish is the father of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u6	I thank the Secretary of State for this small anthropology of politics. My group's question, which I listened to from other political groups, is whether the Secretary of State intends to take an initiative during this period of office or whether he will - after all the words he has just spoken - lift it over the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u7	Well, let's say that at least we are working hard on a far-reaching proposal for Box 3 and we are working on a major reform of the municipal tax area. Furthermore, of course, we must always taste atmosphere and momentum and not fail to be opportunistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u8	That seems to me to be excellent, but the question is whether we can expect another initiative from the Secretary of State to bring about a genuine overhaul of the tax system, as we have intended and devised.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u9	Along last year's sketch of Prince's Day, there is already a proposal in the pen. If I see the opportunity clean, I will not fail to add another one. However, let us not commit ourselves now to something that may not succeed. Let's keep going and keep looking at what the maximum is feasible, please, with your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u10	Mr. Ester, finally?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u11	Yes, finally, I note that there is not really a comprehensive revision of the tax system. The Secretary of State uses the strategy of the small steps, he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u12	I have no objection to bigger steps, so we'll do them if we can. I think it'll go one step at a time. On Prince's Day last year, we also said that it should be a multi-annual journey with some steps in it. That turns out to be all too true, even though we might have wanted it all in one fell swoop, if we were being very honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u13	Many thanks to the Secretary of State for what he just said. He therefore remains prepared to discuss a number of issues with Parliament during this period of office. I would like a clarification on box 3 and what he has just said about it. He said to Mrs Sent that he is aiming to publish an interim report on alternatives to box 3 before the 2017 Tax Plan. He will also carry out the Great/Bashir motion with regard to the so-called evasiveness. In my view, this means the situation when investors go from box 3 to box 2. Is he also open to looking with that same parliament at other alternatives to box 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u14	I'll be on box three in a minute. Can I answer the questions about box 3 at once? Then we have a compact discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u15	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u16	I will certainly come back to this, because that question was also asked in the first term. The 5 billion is explicitly devoted to work and then within the framework of balanced income relationships. The focus on work is of course not considered exactly the same in this Chamber, nor what is then balanced about those income relationships. There are different ideas about that. To Mr Köhler, I would point out that among workers, the highest percentage purchasing power increase is in the lowest incomes, because they are most sensitive to work, in CPB terms 'the most irritable'. Indeed, I count the purchasing power effects as a percentage and not in euros. As far as I am concerned, that is the only way to do that. That means that if you put together workers and non-working people, not the lowest group is the biggest winner, but the second lowest group. These are the middle groups from 175% WML, in response to Mr Köhler's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u17	Do I understand correctly that the Secretary of State says that he not only calculates percentages, but also assumes a stronger incentive because the percentage is higher if someone with a lower income gets a lower amount? He can't convince me of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u18	I think the incentive effects should be set against the income as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u19	Surely you cannot really think that there is a substantial incentive when it comes to €50 a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u20	All added up, tick it up. There are various incentives, such as the LIV, the IACK and the childcare allowance. These are all incentives aimed at those who are most easily stimulated to take the step to work. That means it has a greater effect there than when you do it elsewhere. Moreover, the conditions of balanced income relationships also apply, and that means that you also do something at the top and not just at the bottom. Then you do the higher percentages at the bottom, but that obviously means that at the top the amounts can be higher. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u21	Finally, Mr Köhler, on this point!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u22	Finally, how does the Secretary of State see this in relation to the tax advantage of €1,000 for everyone promised by his political foreman? Did he talk in percentages at the time, or was it real for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u23	I didn't study the purchasing power plates for that statement. This is a stand-alone reduction that has been used to get more people to work in the longer term. Mrs Vos also asked questions about the same commitment of the 5 billion. It wonders whether the difference between work and assistance is growing. That's true. The poverty trap is being tackled, and that automatically means that the difference is widening. In this case, it is not at the expense of the assistance but mainly for the benefit of the workers. Indeed, higher incomes also improve, but in percentages less than those on low incomes. A balanced picture, however, requires that all income groups throughout the span, especially in the case of workers, get something. That doesn't necessarily make the novelle levelling or delevelling. In the written set of figures are printed on which you can see that it is a bit of a bumpy road, but not a bumpy road that points more clearly in the direction of leveling or de-leveling. I'll come back later on to the elderly and one earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u24	The Secretary of State is now saying that it is both employment and a balanced distribution of income. He then says: so we also had to do something for people with higher incomes, because for them a more balanced distribution of income is also important. What's the most important thing? Is employment the most important or is that income? Can not giving an extra incentive to those who earn less lead to more jobs than giving something extra to those who already earn well?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u25	The commitment at the bottom of the wage building will increase employment and FTEs and the commitment at the top would increase economic growth as a percentage. It has been chosen to maximise the employment effect in individuals, but within the sine qua non of balanced income relationships. That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u26	Doesn't the Secretary of State agree that the 35,000 jobs, which may not have been realized for 10 years, are rather a poor result if the structural commitment is 5 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u27	That question has been asked by others, and I will come to that in a moment. You can't sell that 5 billion against that number of jobs. If it had been up to me, we would have reformed more. We could have created more jobs. This opportunity is now still there with the development of the municipal tax area, because that could also mean a considerable blow to additional jobs. If it were up to me, we would have done more. At the same time, it's just 35,000 jobs. You can't share it on that amount. You could share it on that amount if the government spent that amount to create those jobs, but the government doesn't create jobs at all unless it hires people. However, this is not a model that keeps the economy running in the long term. The government doesn't spend that amount. It does not impose this on taxpayers. That's why you can't share that. It is a reduction in the burden that is intended to enable people to benefit from any economic recovery. At the same time, it will increase employment in the longer term. And all this falls within the pre-condition of balanced income relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u28	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u29	Perhaps this point will come back later. I have another point. The secretary of state just mentioned the novelle. My question is indeed whether this is not de-levelling. I can see from the figures that higher incomes in particular are making some progress. Why is it necessary to add in this novelle for the people with really higher incomes, i.e. in the fourth disc, the delay in the reduction of the working discount? What's the reason for that? In terms of employment, this does not seem to me to be a good thing. So it turns out. It's 0.0%. Anyway, there's going to be money that I think could have been better deployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u30	Cross-compliance sometimes means that you do something to meet those conditions. In this case, the consequence of the peripheral condition is that there must be balanced income relationships, that you also do something for middle incomes and higher incomes. The graph shows I think it's figure 1 in the written set of the novel that it doesn't give an essentially levelling or delevelling image in the novelle. It's a pretty flat picture. Mr Van Strien has asked whether the reduction in charges actually exists. After all, he read in the Millions Note 0.1 billion and also read that there is an endogenous growth in tax and premium income of 7.9 billion. He asks, "What the hell is going on here?" For starters, that 0.1 billion is an irrelevant number. That is the cash effect and not the burden effect. The net burden effect is a small 1.5 billion in the Millions Note. Compared to the basic path, this is a 5 billion reduction in charges. That 7.9 billion is indeed endogenous growth, but that is not a burden increase, because this is not the result of tariff increases. This 7.9 is due to the fact that we are making more profits in the Netherlands, that more jobs are being created and that consumption is growing. All these things bring tax revenues. It's just a fact that the economy is growing again. Endogenic growth should certainly not be called an increase in costs, otherwise economic growth would automatically lead to an increase in costs. More people at work would actually mean a tax increase, and that is not the case. On balance, therefore, there is a reduction in the burden of almost 5 billion compared to the baseline path. Net is a small 1.5 billion. The rest of us should just be happy. Mr Ester of the Christian Union asks why the chronically ill and the disabled are excluded from tax sweetness in relation to the purchasing power picture and the use of the 5 billion. My short answer is: they are not. Chronically ill and disabled people, depending on their personal situation, naturally benefit from the reduction of the burden. There are all kinds of measures that look just as closely at chronically ill and disabled people or families with chronically ill and disabled people. The figures from the Nibud show that the purchasing power development for 2016 for chronically ill who do not use the Wmo is similar to that of non chronically ill. There are no special pictures of chronically ill people who do call on the Wmo, because they are people who can use the customization of municipalities. Tailor-made work cannot be taken into account in purchasing power. Those are people who can make more or less progress than the rest, but there is no systematic picture of that. Mr Van Rooijen wants to know whether the novelle is aimed only at workers. That's not the novelle, of course, because it's the old people who populate box 3. The share of older people in box 3 is more than proportional. In the novelle there is also an extra 100 million in the olden discount. Older people therefore benefit from the Tax Plan, from the letter of amendment and from the novelle. Now we come to the one and two earners. First of all, of course, we are talking about the Schalk motion. The idea of this motion has not only triggered much discussion here, but also in the House of Representatives. The SGP has hit a very sensitive chord in many people. I have said in the General Financial Reviews that there is no denying that sometimes you have to find that it wrings, if you look at it from all sides. What weight is assigned to wringings can involve everyone in their own consideration. As far as I am concerned, Mr Schalk has, of course, touched on the substance of the subject. The proposals and the amendments that were put forward to deal with them were so large, so they asked for such large financial shifts and also had such great effects on employment that we could hardly choose to do so under the objective of'more jobs'. At the same time, of course, there was also a difficulty. The Schalk motion is complicated in the sense that there is a majority for it in the First Chamber, while at the same time the motion calls for measures that would never come through the Lower House. That makes the motion a kind of contradiction within itself. This is entirely not the fault of Mr Schalk, but this contradiction does arise in this political situation. I would not like to commit this to commitments made by the cabinet on what needs to be done next year about this issue. I can say that this subject will come back, of course. It is not an objective of the Cabinet to increase the difference and not to substantially reduce the difference, especially if that would have an important effect on employment. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dan ook niet anders dan toezeggen dat wij ongetwijfeld volgend jaar weer diepgaand over dit koopkrachtverhaal en deze verhoudingen zullen spreken.]] This issue will then be discussed again. So it won't go away. That is a prediction on my part which is undoubtedly in line with Mr Schalk's intention. I think that both of us think, truthfully and sincerely, that this subject does not disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u31	There was another motion, which won a majority in this Chamber and not in the Second Chamber, the Nagel motion. Will you come back to that, or have you dropped the subject by saying that the Tax Plan included the elderly in the letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u32	I will come back to the elderly in detail. I said at the beginning that I will try to do justice to every input. This means that I will look at the elderly in some detail. The comment just was more of a question of division. I will come back to the elderly in the topic below.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u33	I'm not quite sure the Secretary of State is going to say anything more about the questions I asked about the CPB. If that's not the intention, I'm sure I'll ask the question now. Suppose we come to the conclusion that there are possibilities with the amendment as it was, or with an improved version, let me put it this way. We may find out through calculations that it does not have any consequences for the increase in jobs, or that it does not, in any case, cause jobs to die. Does that make it easier and can we look for that with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u34	I think that Mr Schalk is crossing an important threshold here. Of course, the employment effect was a very serious objection of the cabinet to the amendment. If there are other forms for it, it is of course closer to what is negotiable and comes into view.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u35	Another question about the CPB calculations. We discussed this in detail, so I will not repeat everything. Suppose, however, that the CPB would calculate the amendment or the modified amendment without moving the amendment rigidly to 2040. Then we may come to very different conclusions. Does the Secretary of State see possibilities to see if there is any other way to deal with the undoubtedly important CPB calculations?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u36	The CPB point also deserves more comments. In my list came the job effect, but also the CPB calculation and the method of modelling, after the piece on the elderly. So I'll come back to that. I want to keep that compact together. It'll help the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u37	I very much appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State indicates very nuanced and constructively what the balance is. He will think about this further in 2016. In concrete terms, I have a question along the lines of a written question, which was answered in my reply on page 21 of the reply. This was a slightly more dressed-up variant of the Dijkgraaf/Omtzigt amendment, which was intended to temporarily increase the general tax rebate from 46% to 70%. In that written question, I asked what would happen if that became 60%. The Secretary of State replied that this would cost 130 million. It will undoubtedly also have less effect on the CPB's job losses. Is that a direction he wants to think further, or is he looking for it in an alternative? I am thinking, for example, of a new discount that does not have the effect of the models of the CPB, although that would not be my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u38	Mr Schalk has announced that he will continue his search. I will say something about it later, but I do not think the solution is to deal with the CPB models differently. With me, there is a certain natural repulsion against introducing new fiscal instruments. Let's keep that search until the moment there's to be searched. Then we are talking about the 2017 Tax Plan. I would like to say once again that there is always a constructive discussion about proposals that do not cost jobs. We have also discussed these proposals very carefully and constructively.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u39	In the tradition that Mr Schalk will address, it is thus "seek and you will find."
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u40	It is possible that the Secretary of State will discuss this when he talks about the gap between the earners and the two earners. Is attention also paid to the gender gap and the promotion of women's participation in the labour market and economic independence?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u41	Mrs Sent asked in a question that research shows that potential two-earners are relatively sensitive to financial incentives. Potential double earners are more likely to be women than men. She didn't name the genders, but can I read that in it? She wants to know what consequences the cabinet will have. I would say: I think! There has never been a time when we have bumped such a dose of stimuli on this group. In fact, speakers in this Chamber have said that the instrument has even become somewhat blunt. My defence against this is also beginning to get a little less sharp, because we are gradually reaching the limits of this instrument. We have to recognize that with each other. Those who do not want the difference must be relative in the same way as those who want to promote the difference in order to help people get to work. Those who are close to these incentives will also have to recognise that at some point there is a limit to the instruments. I think he's in sight now. Mrs Vos asks why the childcare allowance is not also used for children of parents who are not working so that they can go to preschool. It could be, but that's another goal. Here's the commitment to helping more people get to work. That, by the way, is exactly the group Mrs Sent just mentioned. Municipalities are responsible for offering toddlers from families with one householder or whose parents do not work. This may also have pre-school forms, as stated in the Ministry of Social Affairs' budget. Structural money is available for toddlers who do not go to pre-school facilities yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u42	Money is indeed available for this, but that is not enough. It is particularly important for the development of children to have the opportunity to go to a preschool or preschool part of the day. That's investing in the future of children. It also enables parents who may not be working to undertake business with which they can move towards the labour market. The question really is whether we should look at this problem a little more broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u43	The choice has been not to. This does not mean that the other wish does not exist, but it is a different instrument and it is somewhere else in the budget. It's not supposed to be here. As you take more targets on board, you reach less per target. We have chosen to help people to work under certain conditions. Personally, I once showed myself to be a big fan of certain forms of pre-school education, because it was investigated at the time that it is one of the most effective ways to teach children something. It provides the most learning effect per euro, but this is not the aim here. It is intended elsewhere and Mr Asscher is working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u44	Mr Ester had another question on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u45	I apologize for that, but I was just thinking about the Secretary of State's answer. My question is what role he attaches himself to when it comes to the single-earner issue. I especially taste a reactive role here. He said: if the Chamber comes up with ideas, I will listen to them nicely in the framework of the 2017 Tax Plan. Or can we expect a more proactive role from him? Does he himself come up with new proposals, heard the debates, to narrow that gap, under the conditions he mentioned? In short, should we wait for Mr Schalk to come forward with new proposals or will the Secretary of State claim a more proactive role?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u46	There are two answers to that. I think that the desire to reduce this difference lies with Mr Schalk, and I am happy to be an interlocutor. In this treatment we have come up against points that are difficult. That's what we're talking about. There are very different views. It's definitely not a piece of cake. Then, of course, when putting together the next tax plan, you will think about it with attention. Then I'll get to the elders. Historically, we had all kinds of tax and other advantages in our socio-economic system, specifically for the elderly, such as the elderly, the elderly discount, other rates in the first and second discs, the contribution effect. With all these benefits, you should periodically ask yourself whether and to what extent there is a ground for it. That's the question. Is there any basis for these specific benefits for older people to the same extent as at the time when these benefits were realised? An SCP study has just appeared. It looked very closely at a long time series of standardised disposable income. In that you can see that the average Dutch household in the period from 2004 to 2013 has had an improvement in the standardised disposable income, I say it now for the last time, because after this I just call it the purchasing power. This shows that the Netherlands is just above water when it comes to dealing with the crisis, at least since 2004. We're just a little more prosperous than in 2004. I have no unhappy feeling about that, because I was very prosperous in 2004. It's +1%. You're not gonna roll over on that. That +1% doesn't apply to everyone. There are also all kinds of mins, for example among the single people under 65. They are declining by 3% over that period. With the one-earner without children, it's -1%. With the two-earner without children, it's minus 2%. With the single earner with children it's -4%. In doing so, I should also like to say in all honesty the concern of Mr Schalk. He's got a point. Mr Köhler mentioned the people in the WW, who are also at -4%. So there are a lot of minuses under that +1% blanket. Pensioners don't belong to those minions. They're at +3%. That number is not very similar, because the effect of job losses is not in the non-age and the workers. In the case of under-indexation of pensions, this is taken into account by the elderly in the figures, but in the case of workers, this is in their future income. They get that on their hands, but it doesn't count in the numbers yet. During this period, the income trends of older people were, in any case, significantly above average. In other areas, too, we must note that older people are doing relatively well. Even the employment rate of older people between 65 and 69 has increased, from 8% to 13%. This is the largest increase in the employment rate of any group. Among those over 65, the share of vulnerable groups is smaller than average. Older people least often live in poverty and are most wealthy. 40% of the elderly have a capacity of €200,000 or more. They most often stick to the disc of five, eat the most enough vegetables, smoke the least, drink the least, surf the web massively, benefit most from the subsidies for art and culture and are served in the Dutch Parliament, both in the First and in the Second Chamber, by a political party specifically aligned with them. It's amazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u47	Mr Van Rooijen cannot wait to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u48	I'd be happy to walk a few more laps here to demonstrate the health of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u49	You are a very good example of that. My political assistant thought you were 60.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u50	Statistics are also l'art de grouper les chiffres. I don't have the section of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau on my retina very well yet, but next week I do, after these comments. I have a recent paper: Table 7, purchasing power development over the period 2010-2016 for AOW beneficiaries. When I look at the supplementary pension from €10,000 above the AOW, it runs from -6 to -12. Those are the figures the Secretary of State gave me last week. I was quite content with that, because it confirmed my image. This is, of course, partly due to fiscal policy. The Secretary of State said half an hour ago that all this is fine. It is also partly due to the non-indexation of pensions. This started in 2010 and will continue over the next ten years. The Minister said that he knew nothing about it, but everyone in the Netherlands knows that the financial framework, I always call it: financial future is ruined and has disastrous consequences for the elderly. Apart from the reference period that the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau takes, I note that last week the Secretary of State himself showed that there was a huge fall in purchasing power for older people, from -6 for a supplementary pension of €10,000 to -12 for a middle group of €30,000 to €40,000. Those are astronomical numbers. I do not quite understand how the Secretary of State can make those comments. I want to park the discussion about the power, because we're not talking about box 3, we're talking about box 1. I will come back to that later, because I understand from answers from the Secretary of State that if he doesn't come out with box 1, the elderly...
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u51	Can you cut the interruption a little short, to put it in good Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u52	I just want to say that box 3 should stay out of the discussion. We're talking box one.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u53	There are certain subperiods within that period, but if you look at a longer period, you can see that it is relatively good for the elderly compared to other population groups. I'll get back to you in a minute. I'm gonna finish the argument. I am going to try to do justice to everything Mr Van Rooijen has put forward. At some point, it has been decided to reduce those specific benefits. As a result, you see a reduced purchasing power development, with the final balance still being favourable. These tax advantages of older people have been reduced to some extent. They didn't disappear, they didn't disappear. It is not a question of penalising the elderly against others, but rather of making provision for the elderly more equal to that for others. Special treatment has been called into question, but no disadvantage has been created. That is not unreasonable either, because the assessment of purchasing power is not just about the deltas, the differences. It is also a question of defendable equal tax treatment for people in this society under and above 65 years of age. You can make corrections to that, if you think there is to a lesser extent a ground for certain benefits than before. It is not just about the distribution of wealth, but also about building it up. The scope for AOW and pension only exists in favour of economic growth and employment in working age. Yesterday I was quoted in a way that I liked very much, namely: today's workers are the elderly of later. You need to facilitate people over their lives to build up that prosperity, to participate in the labour market, to become economically independent, to contribute, to occasionally get a little frustrated and occasionally come back a little proud of your work and have a little polite every day. That therefore calls for attention to be paid to the workers. Working people work, they build prosperity, they create that prosperity for themselves and for others. How dramatic is this Tax Plan? I have a preliminary remark to make. Mr Van Rooijen had a lot of concerns, but they all go hand in hand with tax plans from the past, for example last year's Tax Plan. However, these are all plans that have already been laid down in laws and have already been adopted by both chambers. It is therefore worth looking at what is happening as a result of this Tax Plan. As a result of the 5 billion, the Dutch household improves on average 1.1% compared to the basic path. So this is not about purchasing power development, it is about the share of the 5 billion we had to distribute. That is 1.1% for an average Dutch household. They're workers and non-working people. The elderly, as a result of the 5 billion, are improving by 1.3%. This is a more than proportional share for 2016. Let's see what that does in the numbers and the amounts. Mr Van Rooijen has introduced the idea not only to count on purchasing power rates, but also simply to ask the question: how much million is going to that and that group? With that he betrays a bit of his background, I say with great respect. It is a new figure, introduced by Mr Van Rooijen. What's going on with the elderly compared to that basic path? If this Tax Plan evaporates, if it doesn't go through, there's a basic path. However, what does this plan do compared to that path for 2016 and 2017? For 2016 it means 920 million for the elderly. 920 million! For 2017, 450 million will be added structurally, as a result of a multitude of cases. One can think of the olden discount, the second and third disc and disk extension. All in all and specifically allocated to this group, we have thus added over 900 million and 450 million to the elderly. I therefore expected another speech from Mr Van Rooijen. 'Cause he made a big deal. I congratulate him on that. He already addressed the cabinet in August. His party has put forward this time and again and has also warmed up other parties for its ideas, because the cabinet has not met exclusively the elderly party 50PLUS with both the letter of amendment and the novelle. The wish of 50PLUS lived wider and that wish has been fulfilled in an impressive way, especially in relation to the number of seats. I can only imagine one situation in which Mr Van Rooijen should vote against this plan, namely if he believes that he wants everything, but also everything, he has put forward. However, he is a former Secretary of State for Finance. He knows more than anyone that this is a push in a particular direction, to divide, to compromise and finally to get an important part of your point. That important part of his point was convincingly received by Mr Van Rooijen. If he acts in the spirit of a former Secretary of State and knows that compromises are being made, then I can no longer imagine any reason why he should vote against this Tax Plan. We do know why he had to vote against the previous Tax Plan, but so did his party.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u54	I believe that the figures which the Secretary of State now lists and which he has already submitted in the various statements of reply are correct. However, they do assume the so-called basic path. I would like the Secretary of State to consider realising that the elderly would turn in many hundreds of millions in 2016 and 2017 and then, more than other groups, into that basic path. The Secretary of State compensates for this by 900 million. Next, he says that the 900 million are just as good for everyone in the tax relief system. If he cuts that completely apart, he's right, but if he adds up those two years, he's not right at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u55	There is no doubt that there is a difference of opinion on one point, namely that, given the development of the elderly, the cabinet really believes that there is a reason to call into question the specific tax advantages of older people, not to allow them to disappear, but to call them into question. That's what I stand for. However, that was in 2015. Mr Van Rooijen's party strongly opposed this. That was part of that party, too. Now we're talking about this tax plan. The past was black, but the present shines brightly. As far as I am concerned, the repairs before us are impressive, with respect for Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u56	Thank you for these remarks, which I personally appreciate. This does not depend on the way in which the Secretary of State wishes to appoint the group I represent. Last night we had a discussion about this with the spokesman of D66. I'm gonna let that go. I quote from documents of recent date, starting from the piece with letter G of the First Chamber. In this letter, the State Secretary states that the structural burden increase for older people will be around 0.3 billion, i.e. 300 million, in 2017. In the reply we received yesterday, he writes on page 9 that the structural burden increase for AOW beneficiaries is still around 250 million. That is my first point. I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. Then I have one more question. Can the Secretary of State make it clear to all of us in the afternoon, to the extent necessary in this Senate, what is the difference between structural and one-off? He has noticed from our questions that we want to make this distinction. The amount of 5 billion is structural and applies to everyone every year, including the elderly. However, the workers receive three-quarters of the 5 billion permanent. The elderly get 900 million one time. There are also allowances that I ecartize for a while. At the heart of the matter is that we will get a one-time discount reduction from the year before next year. Which means we're gonna get it back, which means we're gonna get it back. That's an improvement of 0.0. The tax increase of 300 million remains for next year. The one-off of 2016 is thus gone in 2017. Then the olden discount drops again by €93. For the income-related contribution, there will be a deterioration for next year with an amount of €100 to €400. This one's permanent. The workers are permanently receiving 5 billion and the elderly are being taken away 300 million every year in the coming years. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u57	It's tempting to confuse all sorts of things. If you're unhappy about something, it's always the most important thing to keep an eye on what you're unhappy about. Mr Van Rooijen's dissatisfaction, which I fully understand from his background, concerns last year's Tax Plan. However, I expect him to be satisfied with this year's Tax Plan. Indeed, in 2016 900 million go to the elderly... not all of this is structural...................................................................................................................................................................................... So that's a $900 million repair. Of these, 450 million are structural as of 2017. That is a structural improvement. Half of the figure remains structurally attached to the plan which Mr Van Rooijen was so dissatisfied with. So he was dissatisfied with the basic path, but then a significant and structural repair on something he was dissatisfied with should please him?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u58	I welcome Mr Wiebes' invitation to show happiness. I certainly don't want to hide it either. The fact that he is prepared to correct an earlier wrong but democratic decision is very much appreciated. At the end of the debate in the House of Representatives it was possible with a first round of €54. The second round went through the novelle. I'm just gonna grab the piece with letter G, the statement of response, with it. It therefore clearly states that there is a structural burden increase of 300 million. The table contains all measures for 2016 and 2017. Let me rephrase. Working and non-working people, the elderly, get the benefit of the tariff reductions of the second and third disks and the extension of the tax discount, but everyone gets it. That's fine. We're happy about that, too. I am concerned that there are also exclusive and discriminatory increases. Apart from the income-dependent premium, the abolition of the old-age allowance has all the consequences for the rent allowance and the fact that the old-age allowance is not increased. The employment discount will be increased structurally by €1,300, but the elderly discount will not be increased, perhaps by a few tens, but that's nothing if you compare it to €1,300. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u59	Then I insist that Mr Van Rooijen's dissatisfaction relates to last year's Tax Plan, but the good news is all linked to this Tax Plan. In fact, there is still a supplement. The elderly discount, a specific old-age benefit, which the government felt was no longer justified, is now structurally coming back to this Tax Plan. The happiness of Mr Van Rooijen does not leave me in cold clothes.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u60	One more time. The Secretary of State stated that it is high time to abolish the specific benefits for the elderly. I don't know why three million elderly people deserve that, but that aside... and that it is high time to create benefits for workers. The picture he sketched 15 minutes ago is that the old schemes for the elderly must disappear and workers, who are not yet in need of regulations, must benefit greatly. I disagree with that in principle. It is also fiscally contrary to any equal treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u61	If that is the case, Mr Van Rooijen should certainly vote in favour of today's Tax Plan, because that is the contrary. That repairs part of what he's so fiercely opposed to. Mr Van Rooijen has asked a number of specific questions. He asked if there was a hidden agenda for the elderly discount. No, there isn't. We look open to that every year. There's no agenda behind that to do anything with. I certainly do not intend to reconsider the abolition of the elderly allowance. Nor does the IAB have a secret plan for further adaptation. There's nothing behind that either. The disappointing message for Mr Van Rooijen is that the repair of the elderly allowance, especially at this stage, is no longer in place. Mr Van Rooijen also asked two technical questions. The note following the report dealt with the difference in the amount of the tax rebate between beneficiaries and non- AOW beneficiaries. In short, the system, which has been in existence for 15 years, means that the amount of the tax rebates depends on the total amount of the tax and contribution obligations. If a person lives in the Netherlands and is liable to tax here, but is liable for contributions abroad in connection with his activities, he is only liable for taxes in the Netherlands and no contributions. In proportion to the tax and contribution obligation, that person shall then be entitled to that part of the tax rebates. The other question is whether workers have far more tax reductions than older workers. The figures mentioned by Mr Van Rooijen are roughly correct, although I note that the tax rebates all serve a different purpose. The aim of the reduction in working time is clearly to promote participation in the labour market, which is ultimately beneficial to the prosperity of the elderly and thus also to the provision of old age services for older people. All in all, 65-minners ultimately pay more taxes than 65-plussers. That's because of the premium part in the disks.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u62	Mr Van Rooijen, a brief interruption. I would remind you that you have a second term next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u63	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I asked yesterday why the tax reductions for workers are much higher than for non-employed workers. The Secretary of State acknowledges that my numbers are roughly correct. I will come back to it next week, but the Secretary of State then states that the higher discounts for workers can be partly explained and defended by the fact that older people do not pay an AOW premium. I would point out to the Secretary of State that this is an incorrect argument. The levy is not a tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u64	I know Mr Van Rooijen's view on this. He reported it clearly yesterday. I would point out that Mr Van Rooijen also counts the IACK, but many workers do not, because they do not have small children. I come to the jobs; 35,000 jobs in the longer term. Mr Köhler stuck at 28,000. I don't know where that number came from. My counter came up to 35,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u65	That number comes from the Secretary of State's figures. Of the 5 billion, half a billion is available to employers and 4.5 billion to citizens. There are 28 000 jobs in the face of this 4.5 billion. Those are the Secretary of State's own figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u66	Okay, if you don't count part of the stake, you don't get part of the jobs either. Is that it?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u67	No, the Secretary of State presents calculations himself, showing that 500 million is available to business. These are wage costs subsidies and they create 7 000 jobs. I didn't talk about that. I have focused my speech on reducing the burden on citizens. Within that story, the Secretary of State says that 4.5 billion jobs are worth 28,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u68	Clear, according to the CPB. Then we understand each other, but if you count only part of the stake, you get part of the jobs. A lot of questions and doubts have been asked about the CPB models. Sometimes there is no faith in the outcomes. Sometimes faith is a little selective. Sometimes the CPB is accused of rigidity. I find it remarkable that precisely where the CPB is accused of rigidity, these are cases in which the CPB has not been particularly rigid. If the CPB had come directly to model results, without any test on the basis of Mr Dijkgraaf's amendment, this would probably have resulted in 35,000 jobs. Precisely because the CPB passed another test and the model outcomes didn't adopt rigidly, but thought about it itself and the credibility weighed with it, those jobs fell. Perhaps the real reproach is that the CPB is not rigid enough when it comes to the model outcomes. Sticks to the fact that there are objections. I'm gonna go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u69	The Secretary of State was looking my way when it came to rigidity. I didn't want to argue that the CPB would work rigidly, because the CPB works with models. A model is what you should do by fielding in a certain way. I have mentioned the interpretation of that rigidly. During the General Financial Reviews we exchanged the following. You could pass the CPB model on what would happen if you made a jump to 2016, and then take it down. However, this cannot be included in the CPB model. So hold on to the situation, as if things remained at a certain level until 2040. However, the amendment in question referred to a phasing-out from 2016 to 2028. This would mean that things would not go through until 2040, which would eliminate job losses. That's a rigid interpretation. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u70	Then I understand. Then the rigidity is not in taking over model outcomes without a hitch, but in the fact that this is not happening. This is done in a way that Mr Schalk calls rigid. I'm gonna take that for a while, because I think we understand each other. The CPB did not want to believe an input variant provided by the SGP. Is that a lead to continue the story? Not yet, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u71	Almost. The CPB did not do that, because that possibility is not in the model. The CPB calculates on the basis of a model where all jobs are lost if you stick to that until 2040. The CPB then offers that model, with the calculation, to the interlocutors, in this case the State Secretary and the House of Representatives. They then interpret the figures in the knowledge that the CPB had to do something according to a particular model, namely to calculate until 2040. Is that a correct interpretation of mine or does the Secretary of State think it is too rigid?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u72	I don't think the interpretation is entirely correct. I think that the CPB simply did not consider the series offered credible and therefore did not attach any value to the expiry of the transferability of the tax rebate. Of course, the CPB has run into this several times. It is, of course, tested by smart calculators who offer models that play tricks with the model. I don't think the CPB wants that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u73	Let me put it this way: this last argument, that the CPB didn't want it because it didn't think it was credible, I hadn't heard it before. So I'm going to think very deeply about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u74	I think that's it. By the way, if the CPB finds this kind of thing credible, then we all know how to put our election programme together and then a lot of jobs will come out of it. In essence, the question to me is not what inspired the CPB, because that is what the CPB itself is about, but what the cabinet thinks about it. From the cabinet, I didn't really want to have any views on specific model outcomes. Why is that? The rule of the game is that we follow the CPB's judgment here, whether that's a model or a judgement. Why do we do that? Because that rule of the game has resulted in a lot of Netherlands. There are also many countries where they do not have such a CPB. My colleague Dijsselbloem is constantly dealing with these countries. There they do not have such a referee, who often makes good, sometimes dubious or sometimes wrong, decisions. But a game with referee goes better than a game without. This has resulted in us being one of the most prosperous countries in the world with a relatively manageable government debt, a budget deficit that is good and a policy that is generally good. These reforms, which will eventually come after three times Mr van Rij's whining, are good because they were essentially judged by someone who had nothing to do with the political situation but started looking at the substance. The results of the CPB are not always good with me. Because they sometimes say things that I think: damn, I had such a beautiful plan and that falls apart. But a rule of the game is better than no rule of the game. That is why it is not appropriate for the cabinet to distance itself from this valuable institution and this valuable habit. Opportunism is not appropriate in this respect. I would like to abstract all the initiatives to sit down with the CPB, use alternative methods, abandon them or whatever suggestions have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u75	The Secretary of State seemed to have just said that we owe our prosperity to the good models of the CPB. To be honest, that seems a little far-reaching. He won't mean that either. Of course it is important that there is an institution that calculates things. It has its value and meaning. The other side is, of course, that it is always important to keep thinking and looking at whether there is anything to be said about the model and whether it can be done better. This debate is, of course, based on these points: to what extent are certain employment figures to explain and are they logical? It seems to me that the cabinet should really be discussing this. My specific question is whether, in this context in particular, reducing the burden on higher incomes also leads to that additional employment. I would question some of that. Are people really gonna be guided by that? We can imagine a number of things about the incentive for lower incomes to work or not. There must be a substantial improvement. But if you're already making a lot of money, is a load relief gonna give you an incentive to work more?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u76	The CPB models therefore show smaller numbers in these cases, as was pointed out in Mrs Vos' introduction yesterday. Her hypothesis that it has more effect than the other is just right. Of course, that's exactly from those models. We should definitely keep thinking. My modest impression is that this also happens to a large extent at the Van Stolkweg. There are no rigid model outcomes or talking computers spitting out sheets that we have to do with, but there are economists, experts who have done extensive research and ultimately with the help of models and tools to judge them. We must be very pleased with this and I dare say that we do have some of our wealth to thank for it, because we do more sensible than unwise things and the CPB helps us to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u77	The Secretary of State sketches a bit of a caricature of how the CPB was discussed here yesterday. I don't recognize that at all, at least not by myself. I'm a big fan of the planning agency and I have a lot of respect for the models. That's not in question at all. The issue is much more how politics works with the results of the CPB. The CPB itself is not the problem; politics is the problem. On behalf of my group, I had a very specific question. Knowing that these models are very sensitive as labour supply models for the impact of unemployment as an involuntary labour supply restriction, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to the CPB, which has more recent data, if it would like to update those models. That's a politically insensitive question. That's all it is. However, it does have the necessary impact on the results of these models, because they are just a bit outdated in that respect and therefore give a distorted picture. Again, that has nothing to do with the CPB or the models, but it may have something to do with priorities. I repeat my question: is the Secretary of State prepared, as far as I am concerned in humility, to ask the CPB to update these models? The Secretary of State himself wrote in his letter that the CPB basically has the dates for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u78	Mr Van Rij then.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u79	I have a brief question that fits in with this. As the Secretary of State himself said, the problem of cashing in when it comes to the use of the targeted fiscal instruments is starting to become a problem, while the same model of the Central Planning Bureau, MICSIM, shows time and time again that the use of these targeted fiscal instruments leads to the desired output when it comes to increasing labour supply in the long term. However, in the short term, this problem of money laundering occurs in a labour market where we have 600,000 unemployed. In other words, I see a dilemma there. There is another model of the Central Planning Bureau, SAFFIER II, which does provide insight into these short-term effects. Let us not be too guided by the long-term effects of MICSIM, when, in the short term, we run into the borders, as the Secretary of State himself says, of those targeted instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u80	Mr Schalk also followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u81	I just want to say a few words about this rigidity. I didn't mean to say that the CPB or the models are rigid. Again, it was about interpretation. I found it special that the Secretary of State now introduced sports terms. The SGP is a little less good at that, I admit. The Secretary of State mentioned rules of the game and a referee. As long as that referee doesn't take out players, he's gonna be fine. So I don't want to accuse the CPB of rigidity.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u82	Thank you for that, because then we agree. With Mr Schalk I distance myself from sports terms. I'll be honest with you that I've never really seen a referee before, but he seems to exist. I've never seen a molecule before, and at some point, you have to assume that something exists. I'm gonna answer the questions in order. I was just going to ask Mr Ester. As I said, I'm trying to do everybody justice, so this question was registered. The CPB carried out an empirical analysis and reviewed data sets, explicitly taking into account involuntary unemployment. This was done, among other things, in the data period until the recession. Now the question is: wait a minute, does that answer to today's period? In some respects, yes, because the forecasts for employment are about the long term. And we cannot assume that we are in a recession for 15 years from now. It is precisely the fact that these are recession-free figures that makes them valid for the long term. Had it been the other way around and we had a bit of recession in it, they would probably have been less suitable for the long term. MICSIM is just new, it just rolled off the tire and extensively tested. There's a whole bucket of pretty interesting literature about it. At the CPB, it's really assumed that the data set is right. Mr Van Rij says: that model is magnifying, but the instruments are not slowly getting bogged down, see the question of silvering. I confess something in all honesty: it is the reason why the cabinet originally chose a certain commitment with the idea of "up to here it is about enough." It was a particular commitment in the IACK and the childcare allowance. In novelles and notes of amendment, some have been added. I've honestly confessed that I'm looking for support to get one on board without losing the other. I outlined last time that I thought I was sitting on a democratic Pareto, but that does not appear to be the case. We have overcome physics in that respect. We dragged ourselves out of the valley. I have gone looking and there have been additions that are still justified, but which the cabinet did not initially choose. So what is the role of politics? It is indeed the role of the person making the Tax Plan and of politics to identify the limits of the instruments and to measure them at some point. Keeping that measure will, of course, be very important in the coming years. It has already been said: the bluntness is beginning to stand out. Here and there we have reached the limits of the instruments. That means a certain self-control in the application. The mechanical modeling with ever more artificial that in reality doesn't work, doesn't fit. That is the responsibility which Mr Ester is referring to. Politics must recognize that at some point it is enough, that it cannot go on and that the borders have been reached.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u83	I thank the Secretary of State, who has been well informed by the CPB, but I'm afraid he didn't quite remember it. The CPB itself notes that it cannot properly assess the impact of unemployment, knowing that it has an impact on labour supply preferences. The Secretary of State says there's no recession years in it, but they're in it. There's two of them. That's exactly the problem I pointed out yesterday. I repeat my question and underline its humility. Will the Secretary of State simply request the CPB to use milder terms to use the most recent dataset? The Secretary of State may assume that this will benefit the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u84	Let me not ask them to do something about their models, let me look into what they think about that. If it is true that we are dealing with specific recession figures, then it would be an underestimate of the effect and the employment effects would be greater. I'll be on box three. The stakes are and will remain in order to eventually achieve a system in which the real return is taxed. There are not so many cases where Chamberwide or almost Chamberwide think alike about a tax issue, but we have one here: the desire to tax the real return on box 3. What we are doing now is a first step towards a better approach to efficiency. That does justice to the average, not the actual, investment mix. It is updated every year with market numbers. Move the market, then move the parameter. That's still flat-rate. It gets better on average, but it doesn't necessarily become good for every individual. It's very exquisite, though. In Mr Van Rij's start-up speech I felt a certain disgust or perhaps almost fear of the complicated formula, but Mr Van Rij is the opposite of a computer. A computer doesn't find formulas complicated. By the way, a computer finds everything Mr Van Rij does in everyday life complicated. That formula is not the point at all. That formula does not affect the feasibility in any way. Once a year the numbers are updated. Someone typed in the new parameters for that year and the computer could stomp for 3 million taxpayers. The computer sees it as a flat-rate system and does not encounter major problems in its execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u85	I want to correct a misunderstanding. What I mean by those mathematical formulas, the Secretary of State said it himself, too, is that they are not based on the actual situation, on the real, real return. They're based on averages. It is not about what Mr Van Rij thinks, it is about how it is understood by a taxpayer. I think that a taxpayer based on those averages, that chosen benchmark, that chosen capital mix, as well as the percentages chosen, will be the best way forward. He will say that this has nothing to do with the reality he experiences. The Secretary of State is now saying that he is going to introduce this, while we must move towards a situation of taxing the real return. Why would he do that? He can also find a temporary solution in the current system to the problems faced by taxpayers and then take the time to go to a good system. That is a very fundamental discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u86	There is a lot of talk about the fictions in this system, but the greatest fiction, which kicks us the most, is of course the current 4%. It is understood intellectually by everyone, but no one accepts it anymore. That's what the tax morals are starting to suffer from. The 4% is in no way related to reality anymore. There is a clear desire to make a system that is one step closer to the real returns on Princess' Day last year. Those actual returns are derived from market numbers according to a mix that can change. In this sense, the system meets reality on a flat-rate basis, but not for each individual. That is a nice first step towards a system that is better for each individual. After all, that is best understood. I fully agree with Mr Van Rij. That's why that's the perspective. We want to move towards a system where you will be taxed on individual returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u87	I have a brief supplementary question, drawing on what Mrs Sent said yesterday. She talked about the behavioral effects. The system now advocated by the Secretary of State will undoubtedly lead to certain behavioural effects, because in box 2 we tax capital on the basis of reality, both in the e.g. and when the return comes at the level of the shareholder. The sums learn quite quickly that it becomes attractive for a large group not to stay in box 3 but to go to box 2, even temporarily. Then what does the Secretary of State achieve with his temporary solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u88	The possible flight described by Mr Van Rij already exists. We can do this. Even now we have a flat-rate system in box 3 and a system of real returns in box 2. However, it is possible that the advisers, of whom Mr Van Rij may know a number, will pour themselves on this issue with renewed energy. The little club that is looking at constructions within the Tax Office and the Ministry of Finance, the Coordination Group on Construction Control, world-famous within Finance, has been commissioned and has expressed its own express desire to pay particular attention to this in the coming year and to see if we can close some of it in the forthcoming tax plan. This is an explicit possibility that already exists. It is possible that others will use renewed energy, but so will the Tax Administration and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u89	Finally, Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u90	You say that this possibility already exists, but it is not used by the group that matters when it comes to tax revenue in box 3. Then I'm talking about the group of people who have over a million. They account for more than 25% of the tax revenue in box 3. They can also live fine at the moment with that 4% and the 30% over that 4%. They won't be able to live with that 5.5%. I am not going to have a comprehensive treatise here, but if they put that 1 million in an e.g. an exempt investment institution, they will still have an advantage of 0.3%, even with the Great Amendment, in terms of the situation you are creating. I think what you're saying is a little too easy. You do not need to have a Coordination Group on Construction Control. It is a question of defining the current possibilities. There's nothing about constructions. You go from box 3 to box 2, from a fiction too high in your experience to a realization model in box 2. That was not made clear by the Secretary of State in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u91	The answer remains that I agree with Mr Van Rij that we should pay close attention to this and take action on this. I would like to put the working party on that. Mr Van Rij will agree with me that it is technically possible now. I don't know if I entirely agree with his statement that it's not happening right now. The VBIs are very special constructions, but of course there is a lot of power in box 2 that could have been in box 3. We do not know what part of it we should regard as a flight, but it is a fact that it is now more pleasant for certain taxpayers in box 2 than in box 3. We have to look at that already and later. Mr Van Rij himself has put forward an alternative. The flight to another box is also possible with that alternative. He's asking me to go into that. Mr Van Rij proposed that, within the current system, tax-free capital should be around double to €50,000, and that it should be raised by reducing tax-free capital above a certain amount. In the first instance, the proposal is above 1 million. I note that in any case this does not correspond to the motives of the cabinet to look for a system that is more close to actual returns. It's also not a system that can easily be covered. You can only get this proposal covering if you completely drop the tax-free capacity above a fat tonne. Then you have a tax-free capital of €50,000, but at €100,000 it is gone again. Otherwise, it won't cover. Then we try to recoup big numbers with small numbers and we don't make it. Mr Ten Hoeve has made another proposal for box 3. He asked whether there was any opposition to turning the capital efficiency tax into a capital tax. Then we're done with it. The ambition of the cabinet was not to give an existing tax a different name, but to approach the actual return more closely. If we give it a different name, it remains that a small saver doesn't think he'll walk in after paying his taxes. I'd say that's a reform that's a little too cosmetic.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u92	I would ask Members for some restrictions in the interruptions. Next week we will have the second term. I understand the Secretary of State has some other work across the street. Otherwise, we will have no second term at all next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u93	I'll try to give it some gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u94	You are throbbing, but I ask Members to restrict themselves to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u95	I'll try to help. It's a bit cosmetic indeed, because you're basically doing exactly the same thing you're doing right now. The title on which you do it, however, will change you. At the moment, you pretend to tax profits, but you don't do that at all. You're changing that title. It's easy to load power, and no one can object to it. Why shouldn't we just change that system and abandon something that's difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u96	I don't know if most people object to the title. I think the problem is a little deeper. The intention is to do something more than just this. I'm going to try to answer as succinctly as possible. Mr Van de Ven talks about the €517 and sketches a funny story of piggy banks and gift vouchers. He's wondering if we can't get rid of this big deal. The gamble scheme is designed precisely to avoid the hassle described by Mr Van de Ven. If cash, gift vouchers and so on were not covered by box 3, everyone kept their money in cash. That saves a lot of money. Then we all have the cash in the house. So you have to establish that you drop cash in box 3 and then it's useful to have a bagatel scheme, otherwise everyone really has to reverse every piggy bank. The intention is to have a savings pig-free bagatel scheme. That's what's behind this. Mr Köhler asks me to make a better calculation for the return on real estate. He makes the cautious suggestion to include the rent income in it. If we really want to go to a system of real return, rent income will be the most problematic component. Because it concerns private property that is not rented out in many cases, I think we should be careful about this, but I will take Mr Köhler's suggestion with us in the future. Finally, Mr Van Rij has asked me the question he has to ask. I'll give him the answer to that, too. He's asking me if I'm willing to disconnect box 3 from the Tax Plan. I don't have a better story about this than I did last time, but say no to it. I would add that the motion has been read with great attention and that it is wrong for Mr Van Rij to see a certain lightness in the letter. The motion must be taken very seriously. A number of questions have been asked about the extension of the municipal tax area.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u97	Mr Backer, I had just asked to be equally restrictive with interruptions because I know that the Secretary of State must still be across the street. If it is really very short and urgent, I will give you the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u98	Of course, I will go to your direction, but I have not placed any interruptions this afternoon. So I didn't think I'd overreacted. I have a question because I see that the Secretary of State is moving on to another subject. A lot has been said about box 3. Mr Van Rij mentioned a number of alternatives. I myself have indicated that I can imagine that the debate on this should be held. It is therefore a question of what Mr Ten Hoeve was talking about. I understand that it is complicated, because there is a motion from Mr Bashir/Van Weyenberg that says that we are moving towards real returns. Still, thinking shouldn't stop about this. We have had all kinds of professors here who have ideas about this. What is needed for the Secretary of State to include other insights into the design of the new box 3?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u99	There is no need for that, because I have promised on the other side and in my view here too that I am working very seriously on a system for taxing the real rate of return and that I will look at all kinds of forms, sometimes even different forms per capital title, in order to establish that real return. I do not think I need any further encouragement.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u100	I may not have formulated my question correctly, but I will be in charge of the President and come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u101	So I come now to the extension of the municipal tax area. A lot of questions have been asked about that. At this stage, I would like to say that I think it is all very good questions, but that they are precisely the subject of the work. The starting points have been reported. Mrs Sent is concerned about one of these principles, the purchasing power neutrality for citizens. It wonders strongly whether the ways in which this can be done are all equally neutral in terms of purchasing power. It depends on the basis on which you pay the tax. That is precisely part of the outcome. I say here that the consequences for burden-sharing and progressiveness should not be secured at the level of one measure. Taxation must ensure this at a system level. If you take a base here that is less or more progressive than the basis from which the tax disappears, you can correct it with the rest of the system. For example, the CPB's assessment was that you could trigger this shift without major income effects for households. That's exactly the point. According to the same CPB, this could create 15,000 to 20,000 jobs. I am not going to say so much about this subject anymore. I'm looking forward to keeping this whole thing whole. That means that I only want to come out with a thorough piece that I have also well aligned with, for example, the VNG. I do not want to be loosely worded here about things that I am not sure yet or do not know at all, because then we will just destroy it. We are working very hard on fiscal greening in all kinds of areas. The SDE+ scheme ensures that our share needs to increase sustainably from less than 6% to 16%. We have 6,000 MW of wind on land and 4,500 MW of wind at sea. I would also like to mention the additional costs and the efficiency requirements. The coal plants are disappearing. There's gonna be 100 petajoule savings. That's all in policy. We have also done all kinds of things with the postcode rose. The letter of amendment further stimulates heat pumps. I also mention the electric car. I have already said once that the Netherlands in Europe has achieved a 16% target in the non-ETS domain by 2020 compared to 2005. Many people don't know that number, but it's 16% and we're heading at 25%. That's good too! Dutch companies are also at the top of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. My point is that all this does not have to be fiscally done. Taxation has a dramatic track record in the field of greening. The most dramatic and failed attempts to green the Netherlands are at the heart of taxation. That is also my answer to Mrs Sent, who asks whether we should not do this anymore and whether we should not do that tax. More work is stuck in it after Paris, but I would not like to give tax the first trigger. There are no fences around it, but in general that is not the most sensible thing we can do. Ms Sent also asked what tax greening measures were discussed during the examination of the Tax Plan in the Lower House. That's all in the letter of November 6th. There are no secrets in that. We have been able to read ordinary things: the shift in the energy load from electricity to gas, the zip code rose, the energy load on the loading posts... The large consumers also came along, but this proposal proved to suffer from a serious lack of support. In any case, those are the things that are covered in the letter. There are no other things in here that one wouldn't know. Mrs Vos has asked for the injection of 100 million for households. We must take a close look at this, because it must be used as effectively as possible. We're still studying on that. It's a measure on the expenditure side, non-fiscal. This could also be used in the NEV (National Energy Exploratory), but this does not necessarily have to be done. We need to take a sensible look at this. We're busy with that. I have already answered Mrs Vos's question as to whether we are prepared to raise prices for large consumers. The basis for this was prohibitive. Several questions have been asked about the international situation. I'm going through that in general, but I'm also going through it in high-speed rail. We have the project BEPS (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting), which is about combating the flight of profit tax. This is a very special and precedentless project. It offers the opportunity to tackle tax avoidance without creating an uneven playing field. The Netherlands has said for 25 years that we want to deal with this multilaterally. This is a multilateral approach in its ultimate form. It must be possible not only to do so, but also to combine it with an excellent locational environment, not only on the basis of our non-taxation factors, but also on the basis of taxation. To the Dutch ideas in the sense of security in advance, a reliable Tax Administration, horizontal supervision, tax treaties and you name it, by far the majority of countries in the world cannot match. We must indeed monitor the rates of other countries, I say to Mr Van Rij and Mr Van de Ven, who have both put this forward. We certainly have to do that. We're never done with that. Mr Van Rij has made a technical point. He says that in the legislative proposals as they stand, a possibility of double taxation can arise if in the country of the subsidiary a general deduction of interest such as an "earnings stripping" option applies. You could fix that. In fact, the Omtzigt amendment tried exactly that. Mr Van Rij must, if he wants to do something with this, release his powers of persuasion to colleagues in the House of Representatives, because that is not where the amendment came in. If I have to judge on the substance, I would ask: why should we actually determine hybrid loans differently from ordinary loans? Because these are intercompany loans, or at least between related parties, you still have it in hand. Those who run into double taxation, I would now look to Mr van Rij to hire a good advisor so that he does not get his own stuff. There's something you can do about this. You'll take care of it yourself. That would be my defence, but the purely democratic-procedural defence is that this simply did not work out in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u102	I have your call in mind and will make it brief. There's something else going on here. I stand here as a member of the First Chamber and my question, which is right to the point, is next. In the implementation proposal, you go beyond what the directive requires. In fact, the preamble to the Parent-Subsidiary Directive states that "the benefits of the Directive should not result in situations where double non-taxation arises and thus create unintended tax advantages for groups of parent companies and subsidiaries from different Member States compared to groups of companies from the same Member States'. Of course, the Netherlands must comply with the implementation of the directive, namely the prevention of situations of double non-taxation, i.e. when a hybrid loan is granted which is seen as a capital injection from a Dutch perspective. This means that the remuneration paid there, if it is deductible as interest in the other country, cannot benefit from the participation exemption. That is the purpose of the directive. But now it is about the situation that, if that fee is not or is partially deductible in the other country, you also say: then you are also not entitled to the set-off for the part that is not deductible. Then you have the opposite situation of double taxation. There is a point of principle here: the Netherlands is putting a head on the directive, it goes beyond the directive. That is my point and not whether or not there should be hybrid loans in future. To my written questions about the execution, the Secretary of State answers quite differently. For he says: there is no way to check whether or not interest is deductible in the other country. This depends entirely on how the question is set up in the declaration note. I shall come back to that in the second term. So it is much more fundamental than the way the Secretary of State takes it off here.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u103	In my view, this has been dealt with in some detail in the reply. The question remains whether this should be mentioned in the light of the OECD. I certainly don't think the Netherlands is alone in this either. Still the question is, why would you make a difference with regular situations? Because it can happen in a single case. If that is the case, it is easier to avoid here than elsewhere, because these are related companies. Mr Van Rij has a concern I regard as high. He asks the concern as a question, but actually it is a call: let us make sure that the ruling remains a crown jewel in a way that the Netherlands supports and which is entirely according to the law. Fully responsible: there are no benefits to uncertainty. Security always has value. If that is within the law and no one gets a douche bag or is treated differently than a neighbor, then it is still true that in advance security has a great value. The Netherlands has become very big. See, that's the third pillar of our prosperity in this debate. Again, I share that concern with Mr Van Rij. By applying transparency to other tax administrations, we must put the flawless nature of the Dutch ruling first, promote and protect. This must remain a crown jewel for years to come. Mr Backer asked where profits on digitally delivered products should be taxed. Well, the OECD has looked into this and found that there is actually no fundamental difference between the supply of physical and digital products. VAT must be paid in the consumer's country of establishment. We will. I'm going to Mrs. Sent's care about the Wbso now. She has the concern, if I may paraphrase that, that the big companies will be running off with the Wbso. The Minister of EZ has said that if this is to happen, it can still be corrected. But first of all, why does the performer not think so? At the moment, SMEs should not complain: two thirds of the budget goes to SMEs, which alone account for only 40% of the research effort. So SMEs are now in a good position. 97% of companies using them in numbers are SMEs, which are more than 10,000 companies with fewer than 10 employees. SMEs are therefore a major user. How exactly do we know who's gonna take off? That's because the executor, rv.nl, has known all data from the Wbso users since the start of this scheme at account level. According to the old and the new rules, this can therefore be applied to the parameters in order to see what appears. Just, bottom-up added to account level. So with an awful precision, you can predict what's going to happen. Those are not predictions, that is not wishful thinking, those are not visions of the minister of EZ, that is just bottom-up added by the performer who knows all his customers. He's got to know his clients, because if he doesn't, he's not gonna be able to run the scheme. Then you have to know the ratios and the numbers. The new instrument is therefore so tuned that it does not give a shift between large classes. In addition, the budget is increasing and a ceiling or another disc in it would change the distribution of the money. The large companies, which have a less than proportional share in the Wbso, but which can be very important for employment, take large chip grinders, who have a huge impact on the innovative power of whole regions. I don't think that's the idea. By doing this at account level, I have honestly believed that there is no such danger. These aren't vague predictions or models, this is just a bottom-up addition. Mr Backer asked a question about the preliminary ruling procedure. That's a real First Chamber question. Thank you. Isn't the individual seeking justice at a disadvantage in his position? No, he won't. 'Cause everything that legal protection offers, it stays. Those are the appeals before the court, the court and the Supreme Court. But something is added, namely the possibility of getting answers to questions of law more quickly. So in a way you can say that this is an improvement and not a deterioration. Everything that was there stays but something comes up. But when you hear the word, you wonder what's going on here. That sounds like the medieval four parts. What's going on here? The image that Mr Backer had of this as a vision of fear is that if someone does not pay back his fees, there will be a force of force. First of all, we have to say that the surcharges are not covered. This does not cover surcharges. The force of life already exists and of course it is linked to great conditions. Force is not applied if someone simply cannot pay, but only if someone is clearly unwilling but is able to pay; the judge must have looked at that again. It's really about cases of being able to but not wanting to be determined by the judge. It already exists. It's about natural persons and drivers. A tax debt can be recovered in this way. It happens a few times a year. Now there have been cases in the past which did not fall directly under that definition but had to be tackled in spirit. For example, there have been cases where companies did not pay a large amount of taxes but where the spider appeared to be an advisor in the web. That's very clever, because he wasn't the natural person who owed the tax and he wasn't the driver either. That is where this instrument could not be applied, whereas it was clear that fraud was taking place there. That is why it is not a question of introducing a body restraint where that does not exist. It is only about extending to civil claims in clear cases of a tort which is linked to this type of tax avoidance. The case where that happened goes through life as the Oxbridge case. That reads like a boy's book that contains all ugly crooks. So that's what it's for. Then I'll get to the behavioral effects. Mrs Sent said: now we are making a whole Tax Plan, and then the behavioral effects are not in it. It would be awesome if it were. So it's not. The behavioral effects, as far as they can be estimated, are already ex ante. This means that certain behavioural effects are taken into account in the generic transfer of the Central Planning Bureau. That goes with standard percentages of 30 or so. Sometimes that is not possible and then it has to be looked at in retrospect. There are cases where estimates differ so much that this is not possible. Not everyone is very happy with that system. We don't know if it can do much better, but we sometimes know that the image comes up that it could have been better. That is why it is being looked at more closely. For example, the Minister for Finance has indicated that he is giving this subject to the Budget Space Study Group, so that it can walk through it again and review it. The main thing, however, is, of course, to have as much as possible in it as possible. That's true, but it's a bit wringy and it's being looked at again.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u104	When can we expect the results of the Study Group on Budgets in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u105	That's a good question. When did the Budget Room Study Group finish studying? The benefits of the Budget Space Study Group are always available to a new cabinet. So I don't know when it's done, but I do when we can do something with it. That's gotta be in 2017. Concerns and occasional understandable annoyances have also been expressed about the Tax Plan process. Mr Van Rij expressed his appreciation of the execution tests, but added: don't make it too easy; don't introduce a way of saying no to everything that the Chamber wants. I can reassure him on a number of points. The one who's been told no most often so far is me. At my table I get the "no" sometimes pre-served. The execution test says that I do not have to go to Parliament because it is a foolish idea. Most of my ideas die. In order to test the truth of the execution test, I went on and on about it in the beginning. I am totally behind the test, but indeed: it will be very easy to say no to everything. So I've let myself go all the way a few times in endless questions and whining about why something is as it is. That's why I found out that's pretty well thought out. I am not saying that I am going to look at everything in this way. We must, of course, keep an eye on Mr Van Rij's concerns, but I myself think that the only way to avoid problems for the Tax Office is to ensure that we all know as truthfully as possible what the problems are. Of course, democracy is free to do things that cannot be done. In physics, we can't, but in politics, we can. You can do things that are impossible. It's okay, eventually, but it's good to know. And it is good that there is a test that is significantly better and faster than the previous one. Also, the test is now public, while the previous secret was. The Court was therefore taking decisions without having the execution test. But that's not what we're doing right now, and I totally agree with that. Mr Van Rij's concern must be kept under constant review. Mrs Sent has other objections, including about the pace. She would have wanted the First Chamber to have had a little more time for that novelle. Mrs Sent speaks for me: I would have liked to. Let us not regard this process as the normal course of events in a novelle. I think novelles are always a bit of a rush, but in general it is important that we ensure that there is sufficient time to deal with the Tax Plan within the framework conditions. The purchasing power plates will come in August, so only then will we know exactly how to set the parameters. By the way, the tax authorities will have to go about it. So the moment the purchasing power cards come out, there is not much to do about it. I haven't had a lot of trouble with that so far, but that has always made it urgent. You always feel like you're doing something really important, but you don't have enough time. It all has to be in high-speed train.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u106	That's what we're looking at. I think it is more likely that we will find ways to increase the discussion room for the Chambers than we are in favour of the Tax Office. I think we'll always be late for programming the parameters at the Tax Office. So every now and then it will happen that the Tax Administration will not be able to process anything until April instead of January. However, when I listen to Mrs Sent's concerns, I think one of her concerns was that sometimes we do not have enough time. We're looking at that, but it's a process that wrings. It's something we're always in a big hurry to do. I think I've run out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u107	I thank the Secretary of State. Apparently, Mr Van Rooijen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u108	The Secretary of State spoke at the beginning about the elderly. He did so in response to my comments, but I have not heard any more about them in the last hour. In particular, I do not wish to make a comment on the principle of carrying capacity. I thought the Secretary of State would come back to that. He thought it was interesting, but he didn't say if he was doing anything with it. At the beginning he did say: we all don't have time for that. Can he say more about it? This is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u109	I know it is very important, but my department is unable at the moment to start a separate study on the principle of carrying capacity. Moreover, the principle of capacity is always part of our discussions on a tax plan. That is so in the Lower House and so it is in the Upper Chamber. That's what my introduction was kind of focused on. You can see we're talking about something. The discussion here about the Tax Plan is about something. It is not only about how to organise society in general, but also about who is communicating in what. How instrumental can the tax system be? The discussions on the Tax Plan will always be about the principle of acceptance, but, with the capacity we have now, I do not see any possibility of carrying out a separate study and producing a book about it. That is a very practical argument. It feels a bit like a bad argument, but sometimes bad arguments are the only arguments I have. In this case it is; it is no different, I say in arren weary.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u110	You were talking about the acceptance of taxes; I thought that was an ominous remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u111	I've been heavily influenced by this process.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u112	I think that's a very good variant on that theme. With my background, I understand all the better that big studies don't fit so well within all the crowds that there is and will be. I made the point in particular because we expect that the Secretary of State could come back to that next week, but in any case later, at least that new tax plans will continue to be heavily tested on that principle. Could the Secretary of State agree to that? I can already hear him say that this is always on the agenda, but we would like to see the weighting of this, perhaps in comparison with the principles of prosperity and equality.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u113	Let me consider this as the "null deadline" of the 2017 Tax Plan and take this wish or warning already on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u114	I am missing answers to my questions about the emissions trading system. With me they were in the block greening, although I realize that this is a bit beside this treatment. I asked the Secretary of State whether he also felt that the market was not in fact working, that it was urgently necessary to lower ceilings, remove reserves from the market and increase the price of allowances. Perhaps now or next time we can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u115	I would love to philosophize about this hobby of mine, because that is the ETS, as a liberal perhaps somewhat atypical on this point, but it seems to me that Mrs Vos should question my colleague on this subject, otherwise she will receive answers that cannot be expected to be entirely on behalf of the cabinet. That's not neat. Nor does it affect taxation in any way. This is in particular on my list of things for which I refer to other rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u116	Not only did Mr Sent talk about the execution and the execution test. I also said that man should be in charge of the machine. You have defended with passion that you challenge the organization in terms of what it can perform. I would find it interesting to hear some scenarios. Maybe we can't now, but we can at another time. What investments are needed in the Tax Administration and in any organisational changes to make later changes? You yourself say that we're actually running out of time. That is, of course, the outcome of certain choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u117	I'd like to talk a lot more broadly about the huge change paths that started at the Tax Office. Maybe that's one of my other hobbies by now. The IRS was actually the cause of my arrival. I do have a nice chat about all kinds of other things, but I've been instructed to do something about the IRS. There are now changes that fascinate me completely and which completely change the way the Tax Administration operates in all kinds of ways. It's about the way of lifting, of communicating, but also of keeping control. We have done control in a way that can now be so much different that almost every employee of the Tax Administration will have different jobs. I would like to take up the invitation to talk about developments in the Tax Administration, but I would like to talk about it much more broadly, because our main concern about the Tax Administration is not that there is not so much to change from September onwards. The problem with the Tax Administration is that we have actually organised ourselves in such a way that we actually need more people every year, while less tax comes in. The change path is aimed at the exact opposite. I hope that I am sufficiently enigmatic and yet sufficiently intriguing to win Mr Backer to have a conversation about what is going on with the Tax Administration. I'll do it with love!
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u118	Absolutely. I'll introduce it to the Finance Committee. I'm sure other colleagues are interested in it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2015-12-15-eerstekamer-8.u119	Nice.
